ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-14-0.u2107	Ladies and gentlemen of the delegates, I warmly welcome you and open the 21st session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Our regular guests were invited to the meeting: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies in Bosnia and Herzegovina who regularly follow the work of our House and representatives of the Central Election Commission of BiH, and the National Regulatory Agency for Radio and Nuclear Security of BiH. The session is attended by 14 delegates, of which 4 from the Bosniak people, 5 from the Croatian people, 5 from the Serbian people. Delegate Fahrudin Radončić is unable to attend today's session for justified reasons. As you are indicated in the call for a session and in accordance with Article 155. The Rules of Procedure, at the beginning of the session, before the debate on the agenda, can enable delegates to ask delegate questions in oral form. I remind you that together with the invitation to the 21st session of the House of Nations, you have also been sent letters regarding the procedure for asking delegate questions in oral form. That letter, i.e. a notice on the possibility of asking delegate questions in oral form at the 21st session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, was also sent to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers, however, there was no announcement for the delegation issues for today's session. Delegate Ljilja Zovko received answers to a delegation issue in writing from the BiH Direct Taxation Authority and the Council of Ministers of BiH's oral question. Is the delegate, Mrs. Ljilja Zovko, satisfied with the answers she received? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-14-0.u2108	I'm happy with the answers, I don't have...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-14-0.u2109	Thank you very much. Delegate Sifet Podžić received a written response to a delegate issue in oral form from the BiH Council of Ministers' chairman. Is the delegate, Mr. Sifet Podžić, satisfied with the answer?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-14-0.u2110	Yeah. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-14-0.u2111	Thank you very much. Now we're going to the session agenda. You've got the revised and updated agenda. I am obliged to inform you at this time that the College of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is following certain remarks by the delegates that they did not have enough time to get acquainted with the materials for points 2, 3 and 4. The College has decided to delete these three points from the amended and updated agenda, so that we will align the order in accordance with this emerging situation. The proposed agenda is therefore for today's session as follows: Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 20th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 2. The request of delegates Halid Genjac, Mari Karamatić, Nebojša Radmanović, Dragutin Rodić, Martin Raguž and Sead Kadić to discuss the proposal for an addition of the Rules of Procedure of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the House of People, No. 02-02-1-1787/16, of 28.06.2016; 3. Proposal for a Law on Changes and Supplements to the Labour Time Act, Mandatory Holidays of Mobile Workers and Road Transport Recording Devices (Second Reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-134/15, of 24.12.2015 and 01.03.2016; 4. Proposal for a law on the control of external trade in dual-use goods (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-748/16, from 04.03.2016; 5. Proposal for a law on the control of foreign trade in arms, military equipment and goods of special purpose (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02- 02-1-752/16, of 04.03.2016; 6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-341/16, from 28.01.2016 and 04.03.2016; 7. Proposal for a law on the marking of small arms, light weapons and ammunition (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-1361/16, from 09.05.2016 and 10.06.2016, with Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sports in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Law No: 01-02-1742/16, since 17.06.2016; 9. Report by the Joint Commission on both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Procedure – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-929/16, since 21/03/2016; 10. Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law amending the Animal Protection and Well-being Act, Law No 02-02-1-669/16, of 24.02.2016; 11. Report on the implementation of the laws of the Central Election Commission in 2015, issue: 01,02-50-19-1301/16, of 04.05.2016; 3 12. Report on the state of radiation and nuclear security for 2015, material of the State Regulatory Agency for Radio and Nuclear Safety of BiH, issue: 01,02-50-19-1500/16, since 19.05.2016; 13. Information on the state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2015 – applicant: BiH Ministry of Security, number: 01,02-04-1339/16, from 06/05/2016; 14. Information on Bosnia and Herzegovina's public debt situation on 31.12.2015 – submitr: BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury, issue: 01.02-16-1-1-1587/16, from 02.06.2016; 15. Information on missing persons in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Opinion on ICMP's initiative to take over from the BiH Council of Ministers – applicant: Council of Ministers, Act No: 03/6-40-1314/16, since 01.06.2016; 16. Giving consent to the ratification of the Amendment to the Agreement on the financing of technical assistance for highways in Corridor 5c – BiH, concluded between Bosnia and Herzegovina, JP Autoceste FBiH d.o.o. Mostar, and European Investment Banks, Act No 01,02-05-2- 1628/16, of 08.06.2016; 17. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on the financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina's cross-border co-operation programme – Montenegro for 2014 between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Union, represented by the European Commission, act No 01,02-05-2- 1677/16, of 13.06/2016; 18. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on the financing of the state programme of activities for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2014 between Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is the Directorate for European Integration of the Council of Ministers of BiH and the European Union, represented by the European Commission, act No 01.02-05-2-1678/16, dated 13.06.2016; 19. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Office of Ministers of Ukraine on Crime Co-operation, No 01,02-05-2-1420/16, since 16/05/2016; 20. Consideration of materials marked ''confidential'', act number: P – Pov – 07-03-10-9-12/16, since 16.05.2016. Note: The material for this item of the agenda is, for confidentiality, available exclusively to the security officer of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and cannot be exported. You can get an insight into the materials in office no. 215 (II floor) every day from 9 to 17 hours. This point will be in line with the procedures closed to the public and we will take a break before this point continues the session. This, therefore, is a proposal amended and updated, agreed by the College, agenda. Is anyone answering for a word, is there a change and a supplement? If there is no finding that the agenda has been adopted without a vote, in accordance with Article 60. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Moving to point one, that's it, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 20th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? I'm closing the hearing, no reports are filed. 4 We vote on the minutes of the 20th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Please approach the vote. Of the 14 delegates present – for 13, no votes against, 1 abstention. We have a general majority, we have an entity majority, I realize that the 20th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH has been adopted. Moving to point two, Ad. 2. The request of delegates Halid Genjac, Mari Karamatić, Nebojša Radmanović, Dragutin Rodić, Martin Raguž and Sead Kadić to discuss the proposal for an addition of the Rules of Procedure of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the House of People, No. 02-02-1-1787/16, of 28.06.2016.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-14-0.u2115	From the Bosniak Club, Mr. Kadić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-14-0.u2116	I'm sorry, we didn't hear you correctly. Who did you suggest?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-14-0.u2117	No microphone 6 turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-14-0.u2118	It's a Kadić. Thank you very much. The Hrvat club, Mrs. Ljilja Zovko.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-14-0.u2119	Mr. Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-14-0.u2120	And klub Srbin, Mr. Nović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-14-0.u2121	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-14-0.u2122	What did you say?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-14-0.u2123	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-14-0.u2124	Grandmother. Thank you very much. So, we heard the proposals for the Coordination Commission, these are Mr. Sead Kadić in front of the Bosniak people, Mr. Mario Karamatić in front of the Croatian people and Mr. Darko Babalja in front of the Serbian People's Club. We're voting on this proposal. Please approach the vote. Of the 14 delegates present, there were 13, no votes against and 1 abstention. From the Federation of BiH 8 for, without votes against and 1 abstention, Republika Srpska 5 for, without votes against, without abstentions. We have the general majority and we have the entity majority, so that for members of the Joint Commission for the text of the Law of the House of Peoples Mr. Sead Kadić, Mr. Mario Karamatić and Mr. Darko Babalj were appointed. We're going to the next item on the agenda, that's Ad. 4. Proposal for a law on the control of external trade in dual-use goods (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-748/16, from 04.03.2016 This is a second reading. The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the Bill's Proposal. You have received the Joint Commission's report on BiH's defence and security. The Commission accepted the text of the draft law with one amendment which became an integral part of the text of the proposal for a law. At its 31st session, held on 15.06.2016, the House of Representatives adopted 7 Law in a second reading with one amendment from the Joint Commission on Defence and Security of BiH Report. I give my word to Mr. Sifet Podžić, whom the Joint Commission's report has appointed as rapporteur at the House of Peoples's session. It's like in the text. Thank you very much. Now I give my word to the Proposer of the Law if he wishes. You don't want to. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? No charges, closing the hearing. We are voting on the proposal for a law on the control of external trade in dual-use goods in second reading. Please approach the vote. Of the 14 delegates present – for 11, versus 2, abstention 1. From Federation of BiH 9 for, without votes against, without abstentions, Republika Srpska 2 for, 2 against, 1 abstention. We have a general majority, we have an entity majority, so I am establishing the Law on the Control of Foreign Trade in Double Purpose was adopted in the second reading in the same text as in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Moving to the next point, Ad. 5. Proposal for a law on the control of external trade in arms, military equipment and goods of special purpose (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-752/16, of 04.03.2016
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-14-0.u2128	I thank the chairman. As far as the Joint Commission reports are concerned, I think we can say what is said in the report, but given that I and the amendments have proposed today, I would also unite in this discussion as regards the Commission's report and as regards these amendments, because in some ways it is related. So, we have an extremely important law before us, and it is in fact the implementation of our obligations and recommendations that the European Commission has made to us since 2013 in terms of the application and harmonisation of anti-discrimination legislation with the acquis of the EU and the relevant directives that are binding for us, given which the Council of the EU has issued, but which can be considered binding for us, given that we are a member of the Council of Europe. So, as I said, this is about an extremely important law and an extremely significant process... of European legal course, which is binding for us for those reasons. And, of course, the Law has also brought great attention and there has been a lot of effort, and we have made appropriate adjustments on the Commission, we have adopted some eight amendments, trying to bring the law into line with the current needs and requirements that are ahead of us as much as possible. And the Commission about these amendments that were adopted and the law itself in the right reading I mean unanimously adopted, and there's nothing disputed about it. I would ask today, given that the subsequent review of the Law has seen some moments which were not immediately taken into account, namely the content of the amendment, i.e. amendments relating to the content adopted on the Commission for Human Rights, have significantly addressed some of the issues which have later turned out and which exist as a need in the Law itself. However, one technical error was observed which was subsequently seen for reasons, i.e. in a way that the proposal for a law in Article 6 said that a new position of 9 (2) which reads is not said with an old attitude, with an existing attitude, whether it is deleted, whether it is moved, etc. Furthermore, in the same Article 6, it is said that the present position (4) becomes a position (3), it is not said what happens with attitude (3), whether it is deleted, whether it is moved, etc. And these are obvious technical mistakes, and they were seen yesterday and by reviewing our legislative sector which has indeed made an effort. And then we talked to the representatives of the ministry, uh, whether to be sure, if behind the position (1) is added a new position (2) which is said, does this mean that the old attitude is deleted, or is it actually attitude (2) changed, and whether the present position (3) is deleted if the present position (4) becomes (3), to be clear. And we cleared up the situation yesterday. For these reasons, I would ask my colleagues to comply with Article 115. Rules of procedure and attitude (3) which allow amendments to be applied and after the debate starts in a situation where new elements and new moments, new aspects, are observed, to respect the submission of this amendment, in a way that explains, therefore, not the new position behind the position (1) is added but the position (2) is changed and the position (3) is deleted, so that attitude (4) becomes a position (3). And that's a clear situation. So, I would ask my colleagues to apply these aspects, to allow for the possibility of submitting amendments and to extend the work, once again the Commission, once again the Commission, the committee for both homes, the alignment, etc. I think it's about technical changes, it's not about some major changes, I think I can respect these circumstances, that they're justified and that this will speed up the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-14-0.u2129	Thank you very much. Now I give my word to the bill's promoter, if he wishes. You accept this. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? Mrs. Ljilja Zovko has her word. Here you go. /Shortly interrupted video/ I'm sorry, the microphone doesn't work with you, so let's see what's going on. Mr Bariša Čolak, a member of the College, suggests that at this moment, the Croatian Club will demand a five-minute break, so here we are until this technical deficit is resolved I am giving a five-minute break. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-14-0.u2132	We've finished our consultations and thank you. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-14-0.u2133	Thank you very much. ministrica Borovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-14-0.u2134	...and delegates. I see, in fact, that the discussion itself of the distinguished delegate Zovko was practically focused on why no general provision on banning discrimination was given, not citing categories, or individual ones, not stating whether or not discrimination could be made and certain categories to which it relates. What I'm saying is that exactly the intensity and the amendment of the law was precisely on the background to indicate the exact groups, that is, the persons to which discrimination relates and the categories to which discrimination can apply. And the reason is that the harmonisation with four EU directives and that, according to which Bosnia and Herzegovina has committed itself to respecting the principle of non-discrimination, which is a directive guaranteeing equal treatment regardless of racial and ethnic origin, a directive that prohibits discrimination in employment on the basis of faith, belief, disability, age or sexual orientation, is therefore from the very name of the directive... Directive on the implementation of the principle of equal opportunities, equal treatment of men and women in the field of employment. In this we have evenly laid down the provisions of the existing Law with these directives, so that this very definition, and these categories, which are also mentioned, is based on age, sexual orientation, which has not been in this Law so far. What I'm trying to say is that a real effort has been made and that, with experts from the European Commission, we have analysed a member per member and that in the end, everything that we have accepted as a ministry and proposed to the Council of Ministers, and subsequently through the amendments, here on the Joint Commission, we have adopted remarks that have further insisted, which experts from the Eurap Commission. Therefore, this is exactly what is in line with the EU directive when it comes to discrimination and guaranteeing human rights, i.e. the protection of these rights of certain categories in relation to Bosnia and Herzegovina's legislation. With these amendments, we have practically received one positive assessment from the European Commission that, and the Council of Europe, they are ours, that our Law is as proposed in accordance with these Directives. And for the first time, the Directorate for European Integrations has also been involved in this process of harmonising and giving a positive stance to this Law, just for example non-discriminatory provisions concerning the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination. The definition of categories rather than general provisions is the rule of determining these categories in the Law. There's only so much if I helped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-14-0.u2135	Thank you very much. The word has Mr. Mario Karamatić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-14-0.u2136	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. Well, here I am obliged to say a few words to you and to the public, so my own position is not to be able to, but not to support this Law, because this Law to Amendments, in my personal opinion, has become a pamphlet for promoting homosexualism, and 11 The Law should ensure equality between all, means there is no discrimination against anyone, and by this Law the person of homosexual orientation turns out to be a little more equal than all these others, and I consider it discrimination between properly-oriented citizens and the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And that's why I can't and I won't vote for this law in the form it is. As for what the distinguished minister was saying, I absolutely support it, means that anyone should not be discriminated against on the basis of their sexual orientation, but I also don't mention that it never happened in any public competition or anything to ask which is anyone's sexual orientation, so that he doesn't get admitted to work. So this, in my opinion, is about one attempt from outside to impose a law that will ensure that persons of homosexual orientation are more equal than other citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and I cannot and will not vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-14-0.u2137	Thank you very much. Do we have any more applications for a hearing? If there isn't, I'm closing the argument. We, as the College, have agreed on Mr Halid Genjac's amendment and will now join the vote on this amendment. We vote, therefore, on Mr. Halid Genjac's amandman. Please approach the vote. Of the 14 delegates present – 12 is for, without votes against and 2 abstentions. From Federation of BiH 9 for, without, without abstention, Republika Srpska 3 for, without, 2 abstentions. We have the general majority, that we have the entity majority, and I therefore find that the amendment of the Halid Genjac delegate has been adopted. We move to a vote on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination in Second Reading. Please approach the vote. Of those 14 – for 9, against 1, abstentions 4. The Federation of BiH 7 for, 1 versus and 1 abstention, Republika Srpska 2 for, without against, 3 abstentions. There is a general majority, there is an entity majority, and I therefore find that we have passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination in the Second Reading. The Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination was adopted in a different text than the House of Representatives and should therefore form a Joint Commission for the Consensation of the Text of the Law. I call on club presidents to propose names for this Joint Commission. Mr. Halid Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-14-0.u2138	The Bošnjak Club – A Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-14-0.u2139	Thank you very much. 12 Mrs. Ljilja Zovko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-14-0.u2140	Ljilja Zovko.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-14-0.u2141	Ljilja Zovko. Mr. Sredoje Nović, probably Sredoje Nović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-14-0.u2142	Mr. Babalj.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-14-0.u2143	Thank you very much. We heard the proposal well, so Mr. Halid Genjac, Mrs. Ljilja Zovko and Mr. Darko Babalj. We're voting on this proposal. Please approach the vote. Of the 14 delegates present – for 14, no objection, no abstentions. The Federation of BiH 9 for, without and without co-operation, Republika Srpska 5 for, without and without abstentions. I agree that there is a general and entity majority for this vote and that we have chosen as members of the Joint Commission to bring the text of the Law from the House of Nations: Mr Halid Genjac, Mrs Ljilja Zovko and Mr Darko Babalj. Moving to point seven, Ad. Seven. Proposal for a law on the marking of small arms, light weapons and ammunition (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02- 02-1-1361/16, from 09.05.2016 and 10.06.2016, with Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH This is the first reading of the bill, Article 103. Rules of Procedure. First there is a debate on the need for adoption and the principles on which the bill is based. You have received the Opinion of the Legislative and Legal Sector of the Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH. The legislative and legal sector has found that the bill does not fully comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples and the Single Rules for the making of legal rules in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. As a result, the College of the House of Nations sent a letter to the promoter and the Opinion of the Legislative Sector to correct the deficiencies observed in the proposal for a law on the marking of small arms, light weapons and ammunition. On 10.06.2016, the Proposer submitted a new text of the bill. The Nationals' Constitutional Legal Commission found that the bill was not in line with the Constitution and the Bosnia and Herzegovina legal system. The joint defence and security commission of BiH has accepted the principles of the bill. At the 32nd session, held on 27.06.2016, the House of Representatives adopted the bill in its first reading. 13 I give my word to the chairman of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples. Mr. Halid Genjac. Here you go. It's like in the text. Thank you very much. I give my word to Mr Sifet Podžić, whom the Joint Defence and Security Commission of BiH has appointed as rapporteur at the House of Peoples's session. He doesn't want to, like in the text. Thank you very much. I give the word to the Proposer of the Law. Here you go. Mr. Mato Franjičević.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-14-0.u2145	... three years, in 2013, it was formed, the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations formed a billing team. The team includes all relevant institutions, relevant ministries within the Council of Ministers and interior ministries of both entities and also the Brcko District. At the second session, after being formed, the team defined the main thesis which had been accepted by the consensus, which means that all those represented in the team, and I stated from which the institution was all represented, that they agreed with the the thesis. However, there has been a redefination of views when it comes to the Ministry of the Interior of Republika Srpska, which had previously taken a positive opinion and replaced it with certain remarks that were in the process, which followed, in the end, summed up in one remark that they did not agree to mark import arms, i.e. to compromise with the fact that it was marked, but only to be marked by the manufacturer. The position of the Ministry, as well as Tim, who worked on the creation of this Act, is that it could not be agreed to this request because this would be a defacto privilege of individual importers, primarily large importers, which would thus allow a monopoly position on the Bosnia and Herzegovina market. I just have to add that, because for certain participants in the public debate, in the discussion being conducted, Article 8(b) of the Protocol against Illegal Production and Trade in Firearms was disputed, that the taj working on the drafting of this Law also asked the relevant UN body for an appropriate opinion. This expert opinion is on the basis of the fundamental thesis with which Tim started in the work and the basic principles on which this Law was built. Here, that's the way it is. In my personal opinion here I would not, of course, want to enter into a debate with the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples, but if something is disputed then it is certainly not constitutional nature, but it can only be content. A relevant body, the relevant committee has agreed to the principles of the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-14-0.u2146	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. The word is Mr. Halid Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-14-0.u2147	Thank you. So we have heard that it is an extremely significant law and that it is a law that actually represents the implementation or fulfilment of the obligations that we have undertaken as a state by ratifying 14 protocols against illegal production and trafficking in firearms, its works, components, ammunition, etc. So, an extremely significant law that puts a lot of work into, a lot of consultation, and I think it would be a great shame for all of this to be in vain. On the Constitutional Commission itself, there was not a majority for constitutional basis and compliance with the legal system nor against it, it was an unresolved result, and I think it has a little bit of a discrepancy between it, because we were considering compliance with the Constitution and the legal system, I don't think it's disputed, either one or the other, I think that through the vote against this, some other message wanted to be sent. And that is, of course, a possibility, but for all of the above reasons, I think it would be good to have the Constitutional Commission's opinion turned down today and asked for a new opinion from the Constitutional Commission. In view of all these elements discussed by the Ministry's representative and that the Ministry's representative in this capacity is also invited to the Constitutional Commission and that we try to find a compromise there and may open up the possibility that, in further consideration of the Law, some additional compromises should be made, but that all these moments we have heard and that they are simply being taken care of on the Constitutional Commission. So, I think it would be a good idea to have this opinion back to the Constitutional Commission and try this invested effort for all the people who worked to save this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-14-0.u2148	Thank you very much. Mr. Dragutin Rodić has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-14-0.u2149	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, and I join the congratulations since you're holding your first session of the House of Peoples today. I would like to say that, since we also heard from the Ministry's representative, we heard from the chairman of the Constitutional Commission, and because of the truth and everything that has been going on, and that we are not sending any of the messages behind something, so we as the Constitutional Commission have considered the constitutional basis and principles of this Law, and as none of us in the Constitutional Commission, and especially the representatives of Republika Srpska, and we are not politicians of general practice that we understand ourselves in all that is in the jurisdiction of this House of Parliament, I have made it quite precise on the Commission the opinion of the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Serbia and the conclusions of the Government of Republika Srpska. And of course at that session there were different thoughts, but to narrow down if all those opinions were to be taken into account, as Mr. Chairman said, and canton and entity, etc., then they would never come to the law. I don't think so, I think that in the consultations that should be preceded by all of this we should reach the highest degree of harmonisation of legal acts. And what I said on that Commission I will repeat and now, the position was like this, and this is again the opinion of the Ministry of Interior which was actively involved in this process, and of course I am also joining the UN directives and attitudes when, is it very important to have a mark, but here is the attitude, in order to protect the interest of Republika Srpska as well as the interest of legal entities from Republika Srpska which deal with the import of weapons, we believe it is necessary that the controversial Bill on the Marking of Small Arms, Light Weapons and Related Amputations should be withdrawn from the procedure to bring all relevant institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina into line. That was the reason for my stand on the Constitutional Commission. Therefore, nothing destructive, by searching for the best solutions, and of course when we agree there will be no problem with the application of this Law. That's it. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-14-0.u2150	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Ognjen Tadić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-14-0.u2151	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Council of Ministers. So, just... what Mr Rodić was talking about, it is justified to give a certain time to people who agree on behalf of the institutions this question to try to do so. Voting for such an opinion would mean that this Law has fallen and that all procedures could be started from the beginning. If what the Deputy Minister is saying is true that only one question remains open here, here even if it isn't one, if there is a couple, it's enough time for them to solve these things so that we may, through the very work of the Constitutional Commission or some other competent commission, get adequate amendments to solve this issue. And in that sense, it makes sense to give time. We have already been in a similar situation a few times that, in practice, one of the commissions solves the fate of the law. And we learned well here and in practice, if we didn't know the Rules of Procedure well, maybe that repeated negative opinion means that the law practically fell. So I can only say that we might do best if we support the view that we should reject the Constitutional Commission's opinion and buy additional time, because that is the only way we can buy additional time for alignment. Voting for the Commission's opinion, therefore, we do not have that additional time. If, therefore, the Constitutional Commission in the same composition has the same position as it does, this purchase of extra time had practically no purpose, because there was no harmonisation, so there is nothing here that could cause damage to Republika Srpska or anyone else. And in that sense, here I am referring to this particular Article 2. A conclusion where the Republika Srpska government asks Republika Srpska's representatives in the Parliamentary Assembly not to accept the proposal for a law on the marking of small arms and light weapons and ammunition without agreeing with the views of all relevant institutions. So, not to, but without, so that they can reconcile their views obviously need additional time. Director of Directorate Dragan Kapetina withdrew this earlier opinion so, here may be the position, this, which is important for someone, but the point is, therefore, that if we need time to vote against the Commission's opinion. So I would also ask those colleagues from our clubs together, so to speak, who had the opinion they had on the Commission, to still be against the Commission's opinion now to buy that time. Otherwise, as I would say, we are not on the trail of this particular conclusion that the Republika Srpska government mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-14-0.u2152	Thank you very much. We don't have any more applications, so I can close the debate. We will now declare the opinion of the Constitutional Commission. I remind you once again that the Constitutional Commission of the House of Nations has determined that the bill is not in line with the Constitution and the legal system of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I put the opinion of the Constitutional Commission on the vote. Please approach the vote. 16 Out of those 14 - 3 are for, 10 versus, 1 abstention. The Federation of BiH... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Wrong, we'll repeat the vote. Of the 14 delegates present, it is 3, versus 11, with no abstentions. The Federation of BiH for no vote, 9 against, without abstentions, Republika Srpska 3 for, 2 against, without abstentions. There is no general majority and I can therefore conclude that we did not accept the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission, which we have entrusted to the Constitutional Legal Commission to reconsider this issue. Moving to point eight, that's it, Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Sports in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Law No: 01-02-1-742/16, since 17.06.2016
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-14-0.u2158	Thank you. Mr. President, here I am joining the cards and I want successful leadership, which you have already demonstrated in this part of the session, as well as your predecessors, and just keep going. Well, you see, here's to maintain the continuity of reporting on this point, which is why I've come forward, and I see that there are members of the Central Election Commission, so we're building a partnership in a way, so through these reports, we're also strengthening the role of the Central Election Commission and the electoral process as the heart of democracy in every country. You see, I'm not going to talk much, I'm just going to concentrate on three segments, although there are six chapters here in a very systematic and methodologically well-prepared report, but I think it requires really one kind of comment. The first is activities on changes and additions to the BiH Election Law. The electoral law in each country is the most important act, after the Constitution 19, in each country, and we know that this report applies to 2015, that in 2016, we had on the table that amendment and addition of the Election Act prepared by the Interresor Working Group and today we can say, if we know what were the basic priorities and objectives for amending the Election Law in Bosnia and Herzegovina, that none of those strategic most important objectives were realised, neither Sejdić-Sejdić-Finci, nor the decision on Mostar City and others. And I'm asking a question here, so we see that some of the key actors in Bosnia and Herzegovina are announcing that they will do so in '17. year, well, we had announcements from four years ago that everything was arranged for the Mostar elections, so when Day D came, we see that the key political players, to call them that, in the diametrically opposite positions. So we must also conclude here, and that is the assessment that I want to make clear, that this substantive part of the amendments to the electoral law needed by Bosnia and Herzegovina, and to strengthen the electoral process, and to meet the standards, and to meet the requirement and remove discrimination experienced a fiasco regarding the content of the amendments to the Electoral Law. It can, of course, be commented differently, that it is maximum in possible circumstances, which is also, uh, legitimate, but essentially we have a situation, so there was no serious shift. Of course, here I do not locate responsibility for the Central Election Commission, although it has its part of responsibility, because it was part of the Interresor Working Group, but primarily for Parliament, and I have always advocated that we seek a broader political consensus and involve all actors in reaching consensus on these issues. Unfortunately, the issue of power and relations policy still dominates those who consume power. Okay, that's their right and choice, but also given this result that's missing, they need to take responsibility. That's one thing. The other thing is to protect electoral rights as fundamental rights, human rights. And we see here, and I think that the Central Election Commission has really worked really hard to get at its sessions, here it's even taxing which sessions, when held, what has been discussed, and says that over the past two years, around 88% of planned activities have been realized. But let me remind you, here stands, the weakest results are recorded in the area of improving infrastructure and logistics capacity. Who's that for? It is up to Parliament, or the Council of Ministers... Thus, the limiting factor represented a lack of financial resources for the renovation and equipment of the Centre for Education, as well as the acquisition of transparent ballot boxes, while the permanent resolution of the issue of the electoral material and equipment storage remains one of the priority activities. So, we keep saying it over and over again, and without transparency in this part of the electoral process, and, here's what I want to specifically draw in this presentation, I can say that we will have a situation where over 50% of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina have no confidence in the democraticity of the transparent election, loses motive to go to elections. It is legitimate that some who meet this condition are sufficient to come up with this number, which is, in some ways, slightly said, serviced either through the public sector or other benefits, but one huge number of disproved certainly requires and requires that faith be restored to the institutions of this country and to the electoral process in order for democratically free and dignified elections. And there's the weakest spot that's been identified, they're election committees. And here it really stands well identified which are all the weaknesses of the electoral committees, so just to remind you, the total number of broken ballots. I'm not saying this because of me or my personal experience, believe me, I've been through all the elections for 20 and a few years, but 8% of the invalid ballots are a record on the globe of Earth, tested by comparative analyses and increased from cycle to cycle. There's no adequate reaction here. If there's anyone who can talk me out of it, or if he's willing to contradict me. And yet, not to mention, all together, I've come to say, so let's try these recommendations, which are good, which are good, and I really want to say that here, to try to install them into the Electoral Law. And I call on all of us to, after the local elections, be one of the conclusions of accepting this report or considering this report, focus on the fact that, apart from these political 20 priorities, this is the implementation of the Sejdic-Sejdić-Finci verdict and the selections in Mostar City. Please, please, and ask everyone to just at least accept one part of the responsibility, here I personally accept as a member of this House of People, although I have warned and made some of the proposals for how to vote in Mostar City. Today, so 2 months before the election, we can say, therefore, that there is no agreement and there is no way to hold an election in Mostar City after 8 years. And we all keep our mouths shut and we all shut up, okay, we all shut up, we stick our heads in the sand. So, the lack of political will to equalise the right to vote in the City of Mostar, in which there are safeguard mechanisms, the strongest objectively in Bosnia and Herzegovina when it comes to the City Council election and the way decisions are made, which ensure for every constituent people from quotas to ways of protecting vital national interest, is not enough to correct and implement decisions of the Constitutional Court, unfortunately, while at other points and locations in Bosnia and Herzegovina, even certain elements of discrimination against citizens are carried out. So this is about, in addition to these political priorities, we have to professionalise election committees in a way that the presidents of the election committees are a professional person of innocence from party membership and that the president and deputy are appointed through a public tender. I think it is one minimum of which it should take place in democratisation of the election process in Bosnia and Herzegovina, to allow technical assistance to vote illiterate, persons with disabilities. And not to consider the possibility of an electronic vote two years from the general election, I think it is definitely to introduce and take a stand to introduce an electronic vote and have enough time and capacity and that this is not at all such a expensive process that will involve scanning ballots and electronic counting and restore confidence in the electoral process. Only in this way, therefore, can we slowly and gradually, not say painfully and bloodyly, restore the confidence of the citizens in the institutions of this system, and from this it all begins. And here, I invite you, and I invite all of us through this report to accept part of the responsibility for the lack of sufficient changes in the Election Law and the insufficient quality of the logistics of all the Central Election Commission activities that we say in some way, I do not want here in any way in a political sense to detect the problem in the Central Election Commission but I want to make it clear that there are political pressures on the Election Commission in Continuity for years. And that would now require a much bigger debate, but I am obliged, if nothing, to indicate and open up because of future relations in this country and to in some way Parliament by accepting this report, its consideration, accepting recommendations and creating assumptions that through one action plan of acceptance and implementation of these recommendations strengthen faith in the institutions, primarily in the electoral process. It's the only way these reports will make sense. If we don't get those shifts, we'll be spinning into the status quo. The status quo is unfortunately a loss, not just a demographic substance and the departure of humans, but a complete, total loss of trust in institutions, their atrophics. And here's what we've come up with today, to actually get into a phase of the agreed economy from that former system, that on every issue we have to, uh, no matter whose jurisdiction, even though there are exclusive powers and here we have irrational spending and time...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-14-0.u2159	I believe so, Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-14-0.u2160	Thank you, it's in line with my assessment that you're a very responsible chairman... Thank you very much. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-14-0.u2161	Thank you very much. Mr. Mario Karamatić has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-14-0.u2162	...the chairman. Well, I didn't mean to pick up on this wheel, but my colleague Raguž inspired me a little bit. As for the Report and the Central Election Commission, I certainly have no objections to the Report, nor to the work of the Election Commission, but what my colleague Raguž said, here is also about Mostar and about the verdict of Sejdić-Sejdić-Finci, so I think it's time that we sit down and finish it, and we're embarrassing ourselves in front of the world. We're talking about the implementation of some resolutions, declarations. So the basics of all the grounds that we need to do, which are ruled both in the International Constitutional Court and in our Constitutional Court, means that we would have to stick to, where we have absolutely no right to say – if we are not going to, we are discussing it, and I think it is time to sit down as soon as possible, we have to start solving some difficult issues, not just this technical nature. And here, I sincerely hope it will be as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-14-0.u2163	Thank you very much. Is there more debate? If he doesn't, I'm closing the argument. I am voting on the report on the implementation of the BiH Central Election Commission's law in 2015. Please approach the vote. Of the 14 delegates present, there are 13, no votes against and 1 abstention. The Federation of BiH 8 for, without against and 1 abstention, Republika Srpska 5 for, without against, without abstentions. There is a general, as well as an entity majority, and I agree that the report on the implementation of the BiH Central Election Commission's law in 2015. Moving to point 12. That's it, Ad. 12. Report on the state of radiation and nuclear security for 2015, material of the State Regulatory Agency for Radio and Nuclear Safety of BiH, issue: 01,02-50-19-150/16, since 19.05.2016 You have received the opinion of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH. The Commission accepted the report. At the 32nd session, held on 27.06.2016, the House of Representatives adopted the Report. I give my word to Mr. Sifet Podžić, whom the Joint Commission has appointed as rapporteur at the House of Peoples session. It's like the report. Thank you very much. 22 I give the word to the bearer of the Report, if he is present, if He wills. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Halid Genjac, he has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-14-0.u2165	I thank the chairman. The State Regulatory Agency's report on radiation and nuclear safety can be characterised by a very quality report with a lot of information, with quality data and I think it objectively reflects the situation. One suggestion may be, if these reports are handled in color then also be delivered in color to parliamentarians, because if a color report is done and black-white is copied then these tables that we get are unusable. On page 12, on page 22, the tables that were made in terms of dose examination professionally... faces and examination of devices by activity, we see nothing because they are black and white copies, and the report was done in color. It's one suggestion for you to take care of it in the future. However, a far more serious reason motivated me to argue than that and given that this report was made in April this year, we are already in July, so perhaps some information should be updated, and above all, the issue of the management of radioactive waste. I think there are enough reasons for concern in the report and at the very least to clarify certain questions. As the report says, we don't have a safe disposal of radioactive waste and this process is not safe, so we don't even know what's going on with radiation safety, or what's going on with the effects of ionizing radiation, or general nuclear security when it comes to waste. Why? Because the only warehouse of radioactive material is within the Federal Police Administration complex and is managed by the FBiH Public Health Service, the Centre for radiation protection, but the capacity is filled and, as it stands here, cannot be postponed further. Radioactive sources on Republika Srpska's territory in the previous period have been stored in the premises of a former calibration laboratory in MDU Cajavec, but it is no longer operational since the EU project has restored the calibration laboratory in the area, etc. The sources previously stored are still at that location in the transport container, ready for transport to the new central warehouse when ready. So, the database, as it stands here, the agencies contain complete data on temporary storage of radioactive waste in the territory and detailed data are available on request... However, given that the management of radioactive waste and the establishment of a warehouse where it would be safe, and in accordance with standards, would reduce the potential and negative effects of ionising radiation and increase... radiation safety, however, it would also prevent the possibility of stealing or misuse of the source of radioactive material located either in temporary warehouses or in public places throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina. The agency, as far as I've seen in the report, has already asked the Council of Ministers to determine a location for the construction of a central warehouse, which is a basic assumption that this is to start talking about, and has for a long time that this is current. On the other hand, one project agreed with the International Atomic Energy Agency, which is worth around 250,000 euros, is also tied to the central warehouse and is also conditioned by the location, otherwise, as far as I understand here, cannot go before the location for the central warehouse is determined. With all this in mind, I think all this is important said in the report, that perhaps the most important question to finally resolve the location of the central warehouse, or that we should get from the Agency's representative today, because, I say, this report is April this year, I think it would be good for the Agency to answer where we are right now with the location for the central warehouse, because it is also a commitment, it is also a way of solving this problem and what is happening in terms of solving the location for the central warehouse. This may be an opportunity to point to the significance of this question. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-14-0.u2166	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Sead Kadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-14-0.u2167	Dear Mr. Chairman, I also join the congratulations on your taking charge of this high house. I am also grateful to your predecessors who have also done so successfully. I welcome all colleagues present today to this session, members of the Council of Ministers and all present. I feel the need to say something about this report, and I totally agree with my fellow Genjac who, in my opinion, has apostrophe of some things that are very important here to say, this is exactly what he said. And I would focus on Chapter X of this Report, which treats the disposal of radioactive and nuclear waste near the border with the Republic of Croatia. This Chapter highlights the chronology of all developments in this problem and on these issues, and I must say that in this matter we are all together, here we are now increasingly and more often, this is one issue that is very important for all citizens of this country, and especially for those who live in parts of the Republika Srpska entity, in the Unsko-San canton and those areas bordering this territory. I would like to publicly thank my colleagues, Sifet Podžić, colleagues Dragutin Rodić and Mario Karamatić, who made a big contribution to resolving these problems and agreeing on certain acts that were the subject of their interest as members of the joint commissions. I would also say here that we have brought to both parliaments, in the Parliamentary Assembly in both Houses of Certain Resolutions, in the Republika Srpska Assembly we have brought resolutions and in the Assembly of the UN-San canton about the same text as it gives, here is what gives meaning to our strength that together we are all fighting this location in the Republic of Croatia because it is definitely not good for all citizens living in these areas. Here, the purpose of my discussion is to invite us all together to be unique in this direction and to help all the institutions of this country not to install this problem in these areas, which would endanger the health of all our citizens living in these areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-14-0.u2168	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Sifet Podžić. Here you go. Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Sifet Podžić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-14-0.u2170	Well, I had no intention of reporting because I was a reporter in front of the Joint Defence and Security Commission, and I think Mr. Dizdarević, the director of the Agency's report, is, uh, all very specific, but I was offered a discussion by Mr. Genjac. I think Mr. Dizdarević, who, I can say in front of this House, will certainly be very, very professional and quality perform this function and it is the Agency that is very responsible for this part of the job, 24 I think... time to update this issue of central storage in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I think Mr. Dizdarević will be able to answer better on this issue. Unfortunately, unfortunately, we are probably not in a position to wait for what is, I think, a relaxing environment for us regarding the storage site in the Republic of Croatia. Because there are indications that, uh, the European Commission would require a central storage facility for the EU and that this is some location now, as far as I have information, somewhere in Finland, and that the Republic of Croatia as members of the EU will be ordered to postpone its nuclear waste... Now, uh, are we going to get the SAA and the rest together so quickly so we can become a member of the EU so we can wait and wait for that central warehouse or we'll have to work our own. I suggest we do ours anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-14-0.u2171	Thank you very much. Do we have any more applications? If there is no need for Mr. Dizdarević to answer these discussions and these questions? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-14-0.u2172	I thank the chairman. Honourable delegates, on behalf of the State Agency, welcome you, the other guests and members of the Council of Ministers. As far as the Reports are concerned, we entered 2016 with these currents the most important, meaning our warehouse and the Trade Mountain, so until April... 2016 ... This report shall be published in the Official First I'm going with ours, we have just... waste created in industry, medicine and science. Small amounts, small activity, mostly category 5, the lowest activity, and these are the closed spent sources. So they're standing by the industry at some locations, Željezara Zenica, Glinica Zvornik, it's aluminum now, the Ljubija mine, in their..., i.e. industrial warehouses and stand for many years. ...a small category, we can't get them back to the manufacturer at this point. And what we're importing with our positive regulation, we're obliging the importer to import permits, export licences to return it to the manufacturer after the used source. So we minimize the creation of new radioactive waste in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Rudi Čajevac, a measured calibration laboratory, we found a pretty bad condition, we got him, and now he's in pretty good shape, with it being moved from that location, located in..., as described. Mostly measured calibration labs had some calibration sources, used in former JNA to calibrate Geiger-Muller's detector counters produced in Rudi Cajevac. And after the company took off some lightningheads, collected and brought counters from Republika Srpska's territory. As far as the Federation is concerned, the warehouse was founded, I mean '97. For years, the Department of Public Health has... it's getting more and more, we haven't been able to license it temporarily, they don't want to do this job. We need to find an operator who's independent of us as a regulator to license his facility and give him permission to work on economic grounds. At this point that aspect you mentioned worrying... of material, it's more and more popular lately, the fear of someone using radioactive material for terrorist purposes. So, don't alienate him, which we can't guarantee right now is best kept in that industry. For example. in Željezara Zenica, there are some old meterers there on the high furnaces they were, the manufacturers are former Soviets and Germany, West Germany, and the room is welded and so stands. The last time in 2004 it entered that room. So we should hire experts. 25 As far as the project is concerned, we are trying not to lose the project, to get the equipment we need, and the location of the Council of Ministers is through the law and is committed to the State Agency and founded in 2007. Through the policy of... nuclear security, adopted by the Council of Ministers last year in 2012, through a strategy of radioactive waste, which was also adopted by the Council of Ministers in 2014 and through the regulation that we have adopted regarding the safe management of radioactive waste, we have created all the legal and sublegal conditions, but we lack a location. The Council of Ministers has made a commitment to the Agency, as it stands in a Decident strategy, some location will be found from this perspective military property to be given to the State Regulatory Agency for Management, which will give the operator temporary management, i.e. to the Council of Ministers, to manage that location. We've been looking at locations, problem big location, we need a small location, possibly some radio-real node. Locations can't be shared. So, again, the Council of Ministers' conclusion... was that the Council of Ministers would give potentially more locations and we would hire experts... for atomic energy/species is hard to understand/ which would determine the best of these locations. Then the strategy was re-formed by the conclusion that we propose, or a commission appointed by the Council of Ministers and by entity governments, to propose a location so... The Council of Ministers. Now we're in a phase where we're still discussing the location that could possibly be obtained. As far as the trade up there is concerned, the same thing needs to make a difference, so between the institutional waste, the waste that we have, and the waste that comes into the nuclear facility. The one created by the nuclear facility, in this case the Krško Nuclear Power Plant, which it creates, must pay for it. There should also be one difference, so there's spent fuel high activity that can be reprocessed after, it costs, and there's high activity radioactive waste. It is located in this central, potentially European, but there are large amounts of low activity. So this low activity somewhere needs to be housed by states that have a commitment, or those that have established funds that are received from the manufacturer of a certain amount of money. In this case, the Republic of Croatia had to make a programme towards the EU by August 23rd and explain in the programme what it will do and how it will work. So the EU asked them to, and they put in the programme, the government of the Republic of Croatia should adopt the programme. The danger is that low activity would be driven from Krško, a large amount and close to the border... As for institutionally, there are no major dangers and the quantities in Croatia may be double as institutionally as we do. So you have to make one difference between those two. I'm thanking you. If there's anything else...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-14-0.u2173	Thank you very much. We don't have any more applications, I'm closing the hearing. We vote on the report on the state of radiation and nuclear security for 2015. Please approach the vote. Of the 13 delegates present, there are 11, no votes against, with 2 abstentions. The Federation of BiH 9 for, without votes against, without abstentions, Republika Srpska 2 for, without votes against and 2 abstentions. There is a general and entity majority, and I find that the report on the state of radiation and nuclear security for 2015 has been adopted. Moving to point 13, 26 Ad. 13. Information on the state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2015 – applicant: BiH Ministry of Security, number: 01,02-04-1339/16, since 06.05.2016 You have received the opinion of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH. The Commission has received knowledge of the Information. The House of Representatives was held at the 32nd session, held on 27.06.2016. receive Information to know. I give my word to Mr. Sifet Podžić, whom the Joint Commission has appointed as rapporteur at the House of Peoples session. It's like the report. Thank you very much. I'll give the information to the applicant if he wants to. He's out for some security issues. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Martin Raguž has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-14-0.u2175	Thank you. Oh, here, I thought the minister was here, but here's to using time while he's at it. So I think it's good to have this report that paints, uh, trends, processes, dangers, challenges, and I'd just, I thought I'd ask the minister, here's a question when it comes. Trends, he said, have taken measures and indications of the next steps in the fight against terrorism, and it is a legal institutional framework, so it is said here that it is necessary to transform the strike group on the fight against terrorism in which the heads of police and security agencies at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina and entities take part. In the Co-ordination Body, the creation of a new operational group consisting of police experts to enforce laws in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I don't see any deadlines here, no responsibility. So what I'm interested in is how the Minister of Security sees it in terms of dynamics and responsibility. Also when it comes to preventing money laundering and terrorist financing, it is estimated that Bosnia and Herzegovina has been removed from the "grey list"... I got information today that it's back again, so I'd be interested in, uh, whether it's official and what are the consequences of re-returning to that situation from earlier. And another question that is very important, which is the cause of impatience, hate speech and everything else. It claims here that police and all other institutions with full efficiency operate in all these cases. I cannot accept that assessment, I believe, unfortunately, hate speech and negative rhetoric are beginning to prevail more and more in the public space of Bosnia and Herzegovina and absolutely harm and, I would say, radically harm all the positive trends in this country. And here, these are some of the questions for the minister, so if there's any chance I can repeat them or put them through one sentence and activate it when he comes, I'll be grateful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-14-0.u2176	Thank you very much. 27 The word has Mr. Sredoje Nović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-14-0.u2177	Dear Chairman, I also join the wishes for successful leadership in the coming period, and I also thank your predecessor, who has also done this very successfully in this past period. Respected delegates, respected delegates, respected members of the Council of Ministers. This is one of the most important information we shouldn't just go through. Namely, Bosnia and Herzegovina faces a number of problems, facing challenges that are not very specific in other countries, especially in European countries. I have tried to read in detail this Information for many reasons, and on the other hand, to avoid any kind of politicisation or political view of what has been expressed in this Information, but it is not possible to take the impression of one where, in the final one, it would be said, the conclusion is - on the basis of important indicators to state, both in the summary of information and its development, that the state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2015 is at the level of all post-conflict societies and at the level of security in other countries of the region. I'm really asking you what kind of condition it is then, you tell me, I don't know what the situation is in Serbia, I don't know what the situation is in Croatia, I don't know in Uganda, I don't know in those countries where they are and they're in the post-conflict system? Is it a good situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina or a more serious situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina? Based on what the entity police agencies have given, one, the other, the Brcko District, I hope that the data from the canton authorities are also summed up here, one must be given, one rating in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as is the security situation. I fully understand and I understand, and it is clear to many, that security or security is not only affected by the work of police structures. Police structures are one of the dimensions and I've always advocated and I think today it's not, that they're not police structures and that are the only ones responsible for the state of security of this country. In order to want complete information on the state of security, then we must include a number of other elements, and elements of social, economic, and elements of the political, and elements of the work of other bodies in or at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina for law enforcement. Because if we don't, if we don't make such information as it is possible for a single Parliament and this House of Peoples to make adequate conclusions that could be the way to improve the bar in some segment of the security situation within Bosnia and Herzegovina. Col. Raguž mentioned it now, and I read the agency news that we are classified in Sudan, Afghanistan, Ghana, and I don't know which other countries, that Brussels today said that Bosnia and Herzegovina didn't meet its obligations in relation to money laundering and, I don't know, some other questions. Someone has to give us an answer as to why, what was the reason, or what we didn't fulfill, and where that responsibility lies, that problem, to solve it. I remember how many months ago we almost ran here and passed the Money Laundering Act, right, which was the condition of all conditions. Although there was also political and other struggles, etc., it was said that we would be on the "blacklist". Well, then, every third day we are either on the blacklist or below the blacklist. Let's finally know what to do to us. I must tell you that in this Information, first of all, I really do, I know what it means to make such information at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I know what the competent ministry is facing, it's not an unknown to me, but you have to avoid the rhubarb formulas that you simply cannot do, politically, legally, or legally, or safely, that... There were no crimes committed in Srebrenica at a memorial rally at the expense of a delegation of the Republic of Serbia, what happened in Srebrenica is at the expense of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The delegation of the Republic of Serbia was only an object of attack, we suffer damage within Bosnia and Herzegovina, for many reasons not to list them now because 28 of them were having quite a heated discussion. But you see, you have to give us an answer -- what does it mean when you say on page 5, the last and last post, which says 20 reports in the area of terrorism and crimes that can be associated with terrorism against 31 known persons and 1 NN persons, etc., etc. When I read this, I must tell you that I was very worried. There is little in one Bosnia and Herzegovina to file so many reports on such a crime. Whether it's also accepted from the transit prosecutor's office that it's such criminal acts, or it's just a report of police structures. And I don't know what the reason is, because if we consider how reports are filed to the D.A.'s office today, the police structures aren't as independent as they used to be in filing criminal charges, they're all being consulted and working with the prosecution itself. I think that's quite a serious question. The second question is where you find that in 2015 SIPA carried out 22 operational actions related to organised crime, which is 37% lower than in 2014. Zaisa, it's either a mistake or it's just amazing for 40% that it's weaker work, if I may say, uh, one agency at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's a serious question for reviewing the agency's work, or then the situation is really better, that I don't mind, on the contrary, there's no crime. So, the situation has improved in Bosnia and Herzegovina, less and less crime. Here, that proves this data that's being brought here. So I'm just saying. But SIPA conducted 35 operational actions in '14, unlike '15. when she spent 20. When you look at some of the acts of drug abuse in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I have to ask many questions – whether we are really dealing with the issue of detecting and preventing drug abuse or not. The data that is available in all, so I speak generally in Bosnia and Herzegovina, are still worrying. One says that every other child in Bosnia and Herzegovina is using drugs, and this is derived from police structures. Then you come home and you're very worried, you have two kids, and you immediately attack one that you two enjoy drugs that you don't enjoy, not Bog's Day. So we have to be careful, it's not such a simple thing. And here it's estimated that there's 8.29% less drugs in '15. but in '14. It's hard for someone to convince me, very hard on this kind of information. If it is to believe this data that the crime is causing national, racial and religious hatred, discord and impatience in Bosnia and Herzegovina has increased 50% compared to 2014. Where are we going? What are the causes, what are the reasons for such acts being so much, that they are increased compared to others? Well, look at the crimes against full integrity, etc., etc. Since I've run out of time, I think this information, this information has to work very differently, with a much broader perspective, and to cover all the members of law enforcement agencies. We've heard a lot of problems about police agencies and the work of the D.A.'s office. I haven't found a single sentence here. One sentence I found was that there were problems in the work and coordination of police structures in and on the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but it is not said who they are. And what is especially important to me is I don't see, I don't see whether on the basis of this kind of information, this kind of information, or this data, needs something in the legislative sense, and whether it's planning to change anything, and whether it's proposed, because there isn't, and that's the meaning of an analysis of Parliament's report and the purpose of Parliament's work that they should expect both the Council of Ministers and other police agencies, a proactive relationship. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-14-0.u2178	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Ognjen Tadić. Here you go. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-14-0.u2179	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. So whenever these reports are, the information is actually, when the information is on the agenda, so I ask myself two basic questions, so what it says in the information is true and whether it's methodologically correct, given the relevance of someone who delivers this information. From the point of view of these two prisms, it's hard to say that some of the data presented here is not accurate, at least we have no knowledge of it, from the point of view of the methodology I would even say that this information is more extensive than the law of the ministry itself. So I assume that the ministry, partly through co-operation with other security structures in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Serbia and the Federation of BiH, has presented to us some information that is not real, nor about its information system, nor about its legal foothold, but based on co-operation itself. So they tried to give us more information than they'd even be obliged to, given the ministry's jurisdiction. It's a difficult situation, but we always remember the old one... don't stir up the messenger. So the Department of Security has told us what it knows about how things are and we're not satisfied right now. We haven't been before. In a country where the trend of violence is to bring down internal social, constitutional and any other form of order in everyday growth in which there is virtually no institutional or political authority, which the vast majority does not dispute because of this or that reason, in a country where citizens do not believe in the work of justice, police, in a country where the political parties that bear each form of life are assessed as criminalised organisations, I think we can even find that there is very little crime. Because I'm not talking, given the state of reality, but the state of consciousness, which is constantly heating up here and leading to heat. It would make more sense to me if we were to cause chaos here, because nobody here respects anyone, respects anyone, means nothing to anyone, possibly a little bit of fear and interest or blackmail until someone comes to the realization of someone's interest. And it can be said in that segment that some, that something looks like an organization, some kind of discipline or something. So, we are witnessing, whether we like it or not, a society with serious problems, the crisis is nothing, to say better in the decay, but we have again, I would say some traditional relationships in society, which is related to education, which is related to a part of the educational process, which is related to some kind of implanted responsibility that still maintains this state of security so that it is not a complete chaos. Now, can any better systematic and methodologically correct report fix it? I don't think so. I think I can only measure actions and activities that are such that change social relations, things, order towards the better. We have formed the Ministry of Security as we have formed it, the law has said what its jurisdiction is and I do not expect from the Ministry of Security, nor from the minister, no matter who is and how active, to solve these problems, especially not alone. Because neither can the Council of Ministers, given that it is assembled and does not choose, is it? That, therefore, can be the ones who bear the highest percentage of the real government in this country, which is our dear, beautiful and only Republika Srpska and their dear, beautiful and only Federation of BiH. There live what is said, there is doing all that is right and wrong, and in this sense it is their greatest task to improve these social relations, and therefore on us as citizens of Republika Srpska, the Federation of BiH, or Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's why I can never view any of these reports as an independent document. If we were looking for the truth, it would be closer to us to take a few reports, therefore, compared to reading them as a whole and the Ministry of Security in the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Ministry of Interior of Republika Srpska, and the Federation, and canton and Brcko District, so that we would be as satisfied with the picture there. However, what this Information makes very clear to everyone is areas where Bosnia and Herzegovina has the biggest security issues. It's organized crime in 30 senses, first of all, economic-political crime, which we call, so popular, corruption, it's a drug trade and it's terrorism. And no one can say that these goals are misrepresented. It seems clear to all of us both to professionals and laymen that these are well-defined targets. I wish we weren't every day witnessing party debates between the people in charge of security in this country, but seeing their professional co-operation. I can say, as far as the Alliance for Change is concerned, that all people who belong to the Alliance for Change or the Union for Change are delegated somewhere, or with the support of the Alliance for Change are elected somewhere, that they are ready for professional co-operation and that no one from the Alliance for Change, and especially from the SDS can say for sure, did not ask any of these people to lead inter-party discussions, but only one thing is that they are fighting for a higher degree of security in this country, for the fight against organised crime, especially corruption, the fight against terrorism and prevention, here I am saying, as well as a respected colleague colleague Nović said, perhaps one of the greatest Halls, not only today but also the past, and I am sure that this problem remains in the future, and that's the drugs, is whether it's the drugs, the drugs, the drugs, the drugs and all the expensive things that come to do. A higher degree in the resulting fight against these problems will satisfy every man in this country, depoliting these issues will satisfy every man in this country, sincere political support in resolving these issues will satisfy every man in this country. And we hope, and it seems to me that there is no inter-party difference between some, that, as far as this Ministry of Security and this Council of Ministers are concerned, they will do their part of the job right, but there must be complete honesty. It must not happen that people, as professionals, sit down and arrange something, and when everyone goes back to their political camp to teach him how he did something wrong, he didn't agree, he didn't get support, etc., etc., that some political referents and commissioners determine security issues. It's too risky, too risky for one of these countries, and it's a bigger problem than letting those professionals do their job. After all, here is the state of the prosecution and its inertness, when it comes to many subjects of great importance, exactly what it means when politics does not give up on the work of people who should be professionals. There's a lot more to be said. I join the cards to take over Mr. Softic's home, and compared to that, I'm a little afraid this time won't get out of my way, so I'm going to finish this part of the discussion here.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-14-0.u2180	Thank you very much. No more charges for discussion, so we can close the debate. Several questions were raised in the debate to the proponent of this material, however, according to my information, the security minister had to leave the session urgently. There is the chief of analysis from the Ministry of Security, we have contacted him in terms of answering these questions, but since the questions are directly addressed to the minister he is unable to provide answers, so I suggest that the questions be forwarded to the minister in writing and that we approach the vote today if you agree. Thank you very much. We vote on the Security Information in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2015. Please approach the vote. Of the 14 delegates present – for 10, against 3, abstention 1. The Federation of BiH 8 for, without votes against, 1 abstention, Republika Srpska 2 for, 3 against, without abstentions. 31 There is a general, there is an entity majority, and I therefore find that information on the state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina was received in 2015. Moving to point 14, Ad. 14. Information on Bosnia and Herzegovina's public debt situation on 31.12.2015 – submitr: BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury, issue: 01.02-16-1-1587/16, since 02.06.2016 You have received the opinion of the Finance Commission and the budget of the BiH House of Peoples. The Commission has received information and is proposing to the House that the Information be received as well. The House of Representatives received this information at the 32nd session, held on 27.06.2016. I give the word to Mrs Ljilja Zovko, chairman of the Finance Commission and the budget of the House of People, if she wishes. It's like the report. Thank you very much. I'll give the applicant a word of information if he wants to. He doesn't want to. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? The word is Mr. Martin Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-14-0.u2182	Thank you. Very short. I think the information is really quality done and here I would ask the Minister in charge to comment on these assessments, which I absolutely agree with, so it is very important to monitor the risks associated with..., i.e. debt management, and in order to take measures in a timely manner to counter negative effects and ensure better use of credit funds, in order to maintain acceptable debt and debt repayment capacities. And in that context, what does this mean is not reaching an agreement with the IMF... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-14-0.u2183	Thank you very much. Do we have any more applications? If there isn't a minister do you want to answer? Here you go, Minister Bevanda.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-14-0.u2184	Special congratulations to the new chairman, Mr. Softić. Greetings to all present. Since this is one standard report that is being made every year and passed on to the Council of Ministers, then to parliaments, I see that there were no issues in the discussion, unlike the House of Representatives. And I will now be only concrete and correct in reply to Mr. Raguž. So, in this, in these grades, we end up thinking about efficiency, doing business, agreeing on something, initiators, going through the whole procedure, loans being approved, and then not using 32. You're going to have, I don't know, adoption, I think, two amendments due to neutral means, so we're looking for an extension now, and I think that the most important thing in the future... assessment. We have done the Debt Management Strategy with the participation of all competent levels of government and I think it is a fundamental document that will, in any case, allow these reports and life itself to be as effective and better. As far as the IMF is concerned, the negotiations are over. Five members of the Fiscal Council signed a letter of intent, two of which are not, and I think it's a bit of a political game now, and it will be overrun very soon, but an agreement with the IMF has been reached, agreed. I am very sorry that this month will not be on the Committee because we have been officially informed that this is being delayed until further notice of the failure to sign the letter of intent from all members of the Fiscal Council. Here, that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-14-0.u2185	Thank you, Minister. I'm closing the debate. We're going to vote. We vote on the Information on the state of public responsibility of Bosnia and Herzegovina on 31.12.2015. Please approach the vote. Of the 14 delegates present – for 10, against 1, abstention 3. The Federation of BiH 8 for, 1 against, without abstention, Republika Srpska 2 for, without votes against, 3 abstentions. There is a general, there is an entity majority, and I therefore find that the information on the state of public duty in Bosnia and Herzegovina on the day of 31.12.2015 has been received. Moving to point 15, Ad. 15. Information on missing persons in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Opinion on ICMP's initiative to take over from the BiH Council of Ministers – submiter: Council of Ministers, Act No: 03/6-40-1314/16, since 01.06.2016 The Joint Committee on Human Rights of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly discussed together with conclusions and supported the Council of Ministers' notification of the Information on Missing Persons in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Opinion on the ICMP's initiative to take over competence by the Council of Ministers of BiH, and the Information sent to the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples for further action. The House of Representatives received information at the 32nd session, held on 27.06.2016. I give the word to the rapporteur of the Joint Committee on Human Rights, if he wishes. He doesn't want to. Thank you very much. I'll give the transporter the information if he wants to, if he's present. He doesn't want to. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Martin Raguž. Here you go. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-14-0.u2187	I thank you. In this information there are two very important things that I want to say here, I don't think it's good to have them pass at least without comment. One is the fact that the procedure of appointing the management structure takes an unwarranted length of time, that... in the report itself, and that unwarrantedly long, as far as I can see, is years, if true, and no solution is seen. And the second question is the lack of a Fund to help families of missing persons, and to remind you of all here, the decision to set up a Fund to assist families of missing persons in Bosnia and Herzegovina "The Official Messenger of BiH", No. 96/06, 10 years ago. Ten years ago and now he says - this agreement has not been agreed by the Council of Ministers, entity governments and the government of the Brcko District so far. The reason for the discrepancy is based on the issue of funding and the seat of the Fund and payment... to the families of the victims of the missing persons. So, for 10 years, nothing has been done to at least the families of those victims and missing persons have some... And we just hand it over, we take it, Tidd. And we see here in the indicators, so the process of verification of missing persons per year still successfully ran and that, unfortunately, that number of verified 18,249 items, with it not being final, with it not being final. So, the minimum we should through the discussion and acceptance of this information is to make this process complete and that the governance structure is established, to take responsibility and to give my opinion that the Council of Ministers needs to take responsibility, and my support to this in relation to the International Commission, and that this job is not formalised, adaptive, forgotten, given the importance of this issue which, as the Report says, has a historical significance. I absolutely think this dimension of this job has a historical significance for all victims in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I think, therefore, that, with the adoption of this Report, we should go towards strengthening the responsibility of the Council of Ministers to coordinate with entity institutions and Brcko District, complete the formation of the governance structure and that the Fund to support families of missing persons and complete this process of taking charge so that this process can continue, because it is of paramount importance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-14-0.u2188	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. We don't have any more reports, I'm closing the hearing. We are voting on the Information on Missing Persons in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Opinion on the ICMP Initiative on the takeover of competence by the Council of Ministers of BiH. Please approach the vote. Of the 14 delegates present – for 9, against 3, abstention 2. The Federation of BiH 9 for, without votes against, without abstention, Republika Srpska without a vote for, 3 votes against, 2 abstentions. There's a general majority, there's no entity majority. We're going with the second round of voting. Please approach the vote. Of the 14 delegates present – for 9, against 3, abstention 2. The Federation of BiH 9 for, without votes against and without abstentions, Republika Srpska without votes to, 3 votes against, 2 abstentions. 34 There is a general majority, there is an entity majority, so they can conclude that the Information on Missing Persons in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Opinion on the ICMP's initiative to assume competence by the BiH Council of Ministers has been accepted. I further suggest that we bring together the debate and the statement on points 16 to 19, including item 19 of the agenda. I'm opening a debate on this proposal. Is anyone answering for a word? Unless there's a debate, I'll put this proposal to the vote. We declare the unification of the debate and the declaration of points 16 to 19. Please approach the vote. Of the 14 delegates present – for 13, no votes against, 1 abstention. The Federation of BiH 9 for, without votes against, without abstentions, Republika Srpska 4 for, without votes against, 1 abstention. There is a general and there is an entity majority, and they can therefore conclude that the proposal on the unification of the debate and the declaration of points 16 to 19 has been adopted. Ad. 16. - 19. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement and the amendment to the Agreement You have received a report from the Commission on foreign and trade policy, customs, traffic and communication to the House of Peoples. I give my word to Mr Nebojša Radmanović, chairman of the Commission. It's like the report. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? No Niko's answering, so I'm closing the debate. We vote on granting consent to the ratification of the Agreement and the amendment to the Agreement between the 16th and 19th points of the agenda, including point 19. Please approach the vote. Of the 14 delegates present, there are 14, no votes against, no abstentions. The Federation of BiH 9 for, without votes against, without abstentions, Republika Srpska 5 for, without votes against, without abstentions. There is a general and entity majority and thus we have agreed to ratify the Agreement and the Amendment to the Agreement between the 16th and the 19th points of the agenda, including item 19. Before we move to consider this 20th item of the agenda, we will have to take a break for procedural and formal reasons for an hour. The 20th agenda will be closed to the public. So, we'll continue the work at 3:30, I'm asking you to be exact. Thank you very much. Session completed at 1435 hours.
