ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10652	Ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, honored guests, I am opening the 24th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. Our regular guests were invited to the meeting: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies in Bosnia and Herzegovina who regularly follow the work of our House, representatives of the media. Representatives of the BiH Institutions Audit Office were also invited to attend the session. I warmly welcome all present representatives and guests. BiH Foreign Minister Igor Crnadak has sent word that for justified reasons he is unable to attend the House session. BiH Deputy Foreign Minister Josip Brkić has sent a notice that he is unable to participate in the 24th session of the House. The absence was justified by representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil and representative Damir Bećirović. According to the Service of the Session, 38 MPs are present. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. As indicated in your call for a session, in accordance with Article 171. The Rules of Procedure, at the beginning of the session, and before the debate on the agenda, MPs will be allowed to ask parliamentary questions in oral form. In accordance with Article 172. The rules of procedure for asking parliamentary questions in oral form were submitted by the following representatives: Monika Tomić to the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs; Miroslav Milovanović to the Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH; Dušanka Majkić to the chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH; Šefik Džaferović to the Council of BiH; Hazim Rančić to the ministar za ljudski pravo i izbjeglica of BiH; Senad Šepić to the Chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH; Salko Sokolović to the Council of Ministers of BiH; Lazar Prodanović to the Minister of Civil Affairs; Nermina Kapetanović to the ministar of civilan posao; Borjana Krišto ministar of komunikacija i promet of BiH; Hanka Vajzović to the Council of BiH Council of Ministers; Saša Magazinović to the President of the Council of BiH; Mirsad Škaljić Isaković to the Minister of Security of BiH; Mirsad Emrić to the Minister of Security of BiH; Damir Arnaut and jasmin, Minister of BiH, Minister of BiH. These announcements are, in accordance with Article 172. Rules of Procedure, delivered to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and to that member of the Council of Ministers to whom the issue concerns. I would takoċe like to remind you that direct television transmission of this part of the session has been ensured, in accordance with Article 171(1) of the Rules of Procedure. The questions are lined up according to the order of arrival, and the MPs will ask them in this order. Now we can start by asking oral questions and giving answers. I give my word to the MPs, Monika Tomić. Here you go. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10653	I welcome all present. I must admit that my question was asked before the last session here when Mr. Senad Šepić asked the same question and insisted that it be in the agenda. So that question, I would like to comment on and on everything I think about saying, I would essentially say it today under point 17. But my question was otherwise – What measures did the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs take to prevent peer violence at school, or is it planned to adopt a strategy to prevent and sanction such forms of behaviour? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10654	Thank you. The answer, BiH Civil Affairs Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10655	I didn't hear.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10656	Minister of Civil Affairs, Agent Monika Tomić's question earlier, can we read it again – What measures has the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs taken to prevent peer violence at school, or is it planned to adopt a strategy to prevent and sanction such forms of behaviour?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10657	The Honorable Chairman-in-Office, esteemed leadership, respected representatives, media. First of all, I apologize for being late, and I had a meeting with Peter Eveares, chairman of the International Monitoring Team about the census, so I was so late. Based on its co-ordinating role in the field of education, the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs has launched comprehensive information on the occurrences of peer violence, activities and measures that competent educational authorities are taking and planning in the future, aimed at preventing and preventing violence against children of peer violence. The BiH Civilian Ministry is preparing a meeting of the Education Ministers' Conference in BiH, as the highest permanent advisory body, at which Vrsnačko Violence in Schools will be the point of the agenda, and with this it will draw appropriate conclusions that will be binding on all competent educational authorities. As you all know, Bosnia and Herzegovina is a signator of numerous international agreements, conventions and charters relating to respect for children's rights. The Convention on the Rights of the Child of the UN is contained in Annex I of the Dayton Peace Agreement and, as other conventions which Bosnia and Herzegovina has ratified, has priority over domestic legislation since it has the power of constitutional norm. Bosnia and Herzegovina has been required to include specific provisions of this Convention and legal provisions in the field of education, as well as framework laws defining the area of pre-school, primary and secondary education. Thank you. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10658	I thank the minister. Does the representative want to comment on the answer?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10659	I thank the Minister for the answer, but here, I'm going to elaborate a little on what I am, my thinking somewhere under point 17. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10660	Thank you. I don't see any reported here, we should sort of approach, and we'll look at some other things. I give the word to Representative Miroslav Milovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10661	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Dear colleagues, representatives of the Council of Ministers, all present. My question, therefore, which I asked in writing, concerns Minister Šarović, and what is the value of imported milk and dairy products in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the period from 01/09/2015 to 01/12/2015? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10662	Thank you. The foreign trade and economic relations minister's response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10663	Thank you. I welcome you all. The answer in these two minutes would be next. Total imports of milk and milk products into Bosnia and Herzegovina from 01 September 2015 to December 2015 amounted to 11,314 tonnes worth 33 million KM. When it comes to importing milk by structure, it looks like this. Milk of 1,815 tonnes worth 1.6 million KM, of which 1,570 tonnes were imported from the Republic of Croatia. Other quantities of milk products are creams of 1.142 tonnes, cheese of 2,858 tonnes and yoghurt and groats of 2,160 tonnes. I should also say, when it comes to the export of milk and milk products in the structure, that milk is exported in this period of 9.616 tonnes worth 9.3 million KM, creams, powdered milk, cheese and other 881 tonnes. The other data is here with me, but since you've only asked for quantities of imports, that's, the answer would come down to this data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10664	Thank you, Minister. Does the representative want to comment? Here you go. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10665	I'll say it very briefly. So, I didn't accidentally ask this question, it followed the response I received at the previous session regarding the total value of exported milk from Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is about 900,000 KM somewhere, and we have a situation that in a similar period when we exported 900,000 marks to Bosnia and Herzegovina 33 million KM of milk and milk products. This is just proof that our agricultural producers do not have a problem with milk exports, but they have a problem because of the huge imports and such barriers on the border that are absolutely non-existent and I expect the Council of Ministers to make sure in the next period that we introduce some possible safeguards to protect domestic production, because we can thus stimulate domestic production in one of the ways and reduce imports or burden the same way that the EU burdens us, that is, our agricultural products producers and processors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10666	Thank you. I give my word to MPs Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10667	Honored chairman, colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers. I've got about every chance to ask questions every other time, but here in this case I'm lucky the chairman of the Council of Ministers is here, so hopefully we'll be able to get an answer. So my question is about the failure to meet conclusions from the 20th session of the House of Representatives concerning the making of a proper decision to give the purchased space in eastern Sarajevo area of 407,09 m2 to the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption. I remind you that the House of Representatives, at that 20th session, concluded that the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives required the Council of Ministers to put out of force an emergency Decision on the distribution of the office space for the accommodation of BiH institutions in eastern Sarajevo, "The Official Messenger", number 17/15 of 02.03.2015, in the section relating to the Anti-Corruption and Co-ordination Agency, and an adequate solution to the issue of accommodation of the Anti-Corruption Agency because the space allocated does not meet its needs, as well as considering the possibility of granting that space on the street of Dabrobosanska in eastern Sarajevo as a whole of the Corruption Prevention Agency. So, afterwards, a new letter came to the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, a notice on the Council of Ministers' conclusion requiring all, regardless of this Parliament's conclusion, to move immediately in line with the plan adopted by the Council of Ministers. So, I ask you to explain, that is, to explain why this conclusion of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly is not fulfilled, that is, why is it not possible for the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption to move into an area worthy of such institutions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10668	Thank you. The chairman of the Council of Ministers. Here you go. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10669	Dear Chairman and Vice-Presidents, distinguished representatives, present guests and media, I welcome you all. I would like to thank the honourable representative for the matter. You wouldn't be able to say that you're lucky that I'm here today because of all the sessions I haven't been to, because I've been on an official trip, I've attended all the others. As regards your question, I can say that, as far as the Council of Ministers is concerned, this issue has been resolved exactly and in line with the conclusion of the House of People's House of Representatives and, finally, with the conclusion and intensity we had at the Council of Ministers, so at the 39th session, held on 13 January 2016, we made a decision amending earlier decisions on the schedule of office space for accommodation of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions in eastern Sarajevo and we assigned a complete space of 407,09 m2 to the Anti-Corruption Agency and co-ordination of the fight against corruption. So that the phase of their takeover of complete space and moving from existing spaces to that space, where it will be spatially and materially complete and equipped, is in progress, i.e. at its final stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10670	I thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Zvizdić. Does the representative want to comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10671	Just one sentence. Thank you for this information that didn't come to us. But I would like to say that this would also be met by one of the preconditions set out by the Office for Audit that it is intended for the Agency to be an independent and independent administrative organisation that corresponds to the Parliamentary Assembly for its work and that the Council of Ministers has a significant impact on the organisation and financial independence of that Agency. So everything the Agency is looking for and the Council of Ministers doesn't meet means that it has an impact on its work. And I hope you take care of the future when it comes to this important agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10672	Thank you very much. I give the word to the deputy representative, Šefik Džaferović. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10673	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, chairman and members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. I have a question to the BiH Council of Ministers, so let it be determined which of the members of the Council of Ministers will answer the question. Publicly, information is available on the abuses of meat exports from Bosnia and Herzegovina to the Republic of Turkey. According to this information in the Republic of Turkey, instead of meat exports produced in Bosnia and Herzegovina, meat previously imported to Bosnia and Herzegovina is exported. Please give an answer – Is this 6 information accurate, and if they are what has been done to prevent abuses and ensure the continuation of an extremely important job that develops and strengthens agricultural production in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10674	Thank you, colleagues. Who's in front of the Council of Ministers? Okay, Foreign Trade and Economic Relations Minister Mr. Šarović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10675	Thank you, Chairman. I'm gonna talk real fast, even though it should take a lot more space here. In May 2014, the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Turkey adopted a Decision unilaterally approving imports of meat from Bosnia and Herzegovina from headings 0201 and 0202 in a total quantity of 15,000 tonnes at a rate of 0, with an importance by 2014. Later, the Turkish government extended the decision on several occasions. In early September 2015, a number of farmers and farmers' associations informed the Ministry of possible fraud over this export arrangement and the inability to sell drowned cattle throats offered to export facilities. The ministry has commissioned the competent institutions, including the BiH Veterinary Office, the Animal Marking Agency, the BiH Foreign Chamber of Commerce, to issue certificates of origin to carry out extensive control of the arrangement of duty-free meat imports to Turkey, in accordance with the Turkish Council of Ministers' Decision, and has also notified all other entity authorities and inspection bodies. Export facilities are controlled, certificates of origin issued in the External Chamber of Commerce, use and possible misuse of livestock passports and ear tags by exporters and veterinary cells. During this control, a number of designated activities and failures that point to the possibility of abuse of this arrangement from designated competent veterinary inspections on the line were observed, so the Ministry of Foreign Trade, in order to properly implement the project of possible abuse, immediately informed the competent entity ministries and inspections, and the Office of Veterinary Affairs, as instructed by the Ministry, requested that SIPA be included. In extensive control and surveillance involving them, in addition to the Customs Policy Sector and..., the Veterinary Office, the BiH Animal Marking Agency and the competent entity ministries and inspection services and the SIPA, which continues, the chronology of the events could in the shortest possible look like this. A number of failures and possible abuses have been identified by one number of persons in the customs-free exporting process of meat which is examined in the absence of veterinary inspectors, the names known to the Ministry and the competent institutions, in export facilities in accordance with the prescribed procedures, in particular by not enrolling the date of slaughter, subsequent detachment of ear tags, not enrolling the date of customs duty of imported live livestock, which opens a space for possible abuses. During the extensive action carried out from September 2015 to January 2016, 725 forged passports of animals were discovered. All passports are due by veterinary inspectors carrying out veterinary surveillance at slaughterhouses exporting meat to Turkey. The names of veterinary inspectors and export facilities are known to the competent inspection and investigation authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Control continues. The department of the Foreign Chamber of Commerce issued by the Bosnian Herzegovina Certificate and where this institution 7 has been warned by the ministry that the degree of professionality and responsibility must be raised to a much higher level. Thus, hundreds of falsified ear tags were found at the border crossing with the Republic of Serbia, printed in Ruma, the Republic of Serbia, for the purposes of domestic companies known to be investigating bodies, at the border crossing with the Republic of Serbia. The Veterinary Office has so far closed, or suspended the issue of a certificate for two export facilities. The examination of other export facilities for Turkey continues and will be without hesitation eliminated from this job if irregularities and irregularities are identified in them. All information and findings have been submitted to the SIPA, which independently conducts the investigation in order to establish the extent and extent of possible abuses. Information this institution forwards to the BiH Prosecutor's Office. In order to follow the path and possible crossover of export duty-free tariff quotas for meat from the EU, where the same exporters from the EU and importers to Bosnia and Herzegovina and the meat exporters to Turkey appear, the Ministry asked the Directorate for Direct Taxation to carry out control of the end-use of meat imported without customs duty in Bosnia and Herzegovina from the EU during 2015, and this is over 15,000 tonnes of meat, and according to Bosnian Herzegovic regulations should be used in processing rather than retail. We are informing the Turkish partners of our activities, and according to our information, the ministry has proposed that Turkey continue its co-operation on meat exports from the Bosnian-Herzegovina market to this country and in 2016. The answer is that these activities continue to support this project that would not be for, I would say, the needs of a small group of traders and people, but for the needs of farmers in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here's a little longer, but there's really so much I couldn't do any shorter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10676	Thank you. It took a little longer because of the importance of the subject. Commentary, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10677	I thank you for this answer. And please do everything that can be done to ensure that this business is done in the way that it was agreed with our foreign penter who went out to Bosnia and Herzegovina to meet. Deviations within the Bosnian-Herzegovina system must be removed and removed and they must not endanger this job that strengthens, not only agricultural production, but the overall economy in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10678	Ambassador Hazim Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10679	Thank you very much. Dear chairman, colleagues and colleagues, prime minister, ministers, distinguished guests, media representatives. 8 I refer my question to the Minister of Human Rights and Refugees. – Do you also know what activities the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH and the BiH Ombudsman's Institution took to protect human rights during the arrest and release of 32 persons in the "Ruben“ prosecution and police action last year? After a terrorist act in Zvornik, 32 people were arrested at the Ruben prosecutor's-police action, followed by the decision of the same police, the prosecution and the court, who arrested them, were released 30 people. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives discussed this at its 12th session, 28 May 2015, and adopted certain conclusions at the 15th session, held on 22 July 2015. In conclusion, House of Representatives called on the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH and the BiH Ombudsman's Institution to look into these activities, and on human rights violations and their protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10680	Thank you. ministrica Borovac.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10681	Dear Chairman, honourable MPs. Immediately after receiving the parliamentary question, the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees sent a request for information to the Ombudsman institution and the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. Since there was a very short period of time from the asked question to the delivery of information, we did not expect an answer, but here is the Ombudsman's Institution before the sitting itself provided the following information – that, according to this case, they were practically leading under the official duty of two cases, one of 27.07.2015 under the title of "Ruben“ and the second of 15.09. – The activities of the Prosecutor's Office and the judicial authorities in anti-terrorist actions. The Ombudsman's investigation, according to the letter, focuses on the activities of judicial authorities and police structures on Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory, which were taken as a result of the attack on Zvornik Police Station, with the aim of preventing and combating terrorism. In the framework of the investigation procedure, the Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution referred acts to the following bodies: the BiH Prosecutor's Office, the Court of BiH, the State Agency for Investigation and Protection of BiH, the Supreme Court of the Federation of BiH, the Supreme Court of Republika Srpska, the Prosecutor's Office of the Federation of BiH, the Republic of Serbia, the cantonal and district prosecutors, cantonal and district courts, cantonal interior ministries and public security centres of the Republika Srpska Ministry. According to official acts, according to the memo, which the Ombudsman has received so far from the abovementioned judicial and police authorities, the investigation they are conducting has not been completed because those activities require a comprehensive investigation. Regarding the request, information from the High Court and Prosecutor's Council will be delivered later in written form, and of course we commit ourselves, here's to provide information when the Ombudsman informs us of the completed actions.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10682	Thank you. 9 Commentary, Ambassador Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10683	Thank you very much. So it is true that the minister did not have much time given the time since the issue was announced until today's session, but it is also true that the conclusion of the House of Representatives was adopted on 22 July at the 15th session, so last year, half last year, and now we know that February. Of course, this does not apply to the minister, but to the institutions that we called for in our conclusion, which is the High Court and Prosecutor's Council and the Ombudsman's Institution. From this partial answer, we see that the Ombudsman Institution has undertaken certain activities. And, of course, my question and intensity, because this is also the position of this House of Representatives, not with regard to police, prosecutor's investigations about committing a crime, let's not argue, let them do it, but the aspect is a possible violation and protection of human rights. So I'm going to ask the minister that, after the activities and co-operation have been undertaken with these two institutions, after she gathers relevant information to deliver it to us in a written document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10684	Thank you very much. I give my word to Senator Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10685	Thank you very much. So my question is the chairman of the Council of Ministers, or the Council of Ministers. – What does the Council of Ministers of BiH do specifically and what is it planning to do in 2016 to stop the negative trend and the departure of people from Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially young people? So, please provide me with concrete plans and steps with a special emphasis on employment programmes in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2016. I had a similar question last time, so here's the answer, uh, I'll make a comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10686	Thank you very much. The chairman of the Council of Ministers. Here you go, Mr. Zvizdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10687	Thank you, Your Honor, the Chairman. I thank you for asking. Of course, I personally, as well as the Council of Ministers, believe that the employment of young people is and must be one of the basic tasks of all levels of the executive government in Bosnia and Herzegovina. However, of course, the powers of the Council of Ministers through the Ministry of Civil Affairs are to establish principles for the coordination of activities, to coordinate the plans of entity bodies and to define strategies on an international plan involving the field of work and employment, which means that operational competences in the field of employment are at the level of entity bodies, Brcko District, and cantons within Bosnia and Herzegovina. 10 In addition, through the Ministry of Civil Affairs, we as the Council of Ministers or... BiH is participating in a youth employment project that has been implemented in two phases so far. The first was funded in 2008-2011 by the Swiss Agency for Development and Co-operation and the Austrian Agency for Technical Cooperation, the second was funded by the Swiss Embassy in 2011-2015, and the final continuation of the project will be in 2016, which will provide support in the work and development of clubs to look for jobs that allow long-term unemployed young people up to 30 years of age to receive continuous help to seek jobs, and to acquire relevant skills that can affect the speed of employment in young people. In addition, the Council of Ministers adopted a plan aimed at supporting youth employment policies, labour markets and active employment measures, along with entities and Brcko District governments, through which numerous projects have been planned to support youth employment, which is the Programme for co-financing of employment and first work experience and the Public Works Programme in the Federation of BiH and the Support Project to gain youth employment experience in trainee status, first job in Republika Srpska. You have had the opportunity, and here you can see today that, let's say, the Federation Government at yesterday's session approved 50 million KMs that will exclusively focus on the employment of young people up to 30 years, in a way that in the first year, salaries and contributions will be paid to them, with the obligation of the employer to extend the period of their admission another year after the end of that first year. In addition, we are in preparation, i.e. the Ministry of Civil Affairs is actively working on the creation of a new Employment Strategy in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which will apply for the period 2016-20, which will define new models and new youth employment measures that we truly consider to be one of the most important tasks of all levels of government, especially those with their operational and legal competences, and the Council of Ministers is here as part of a co-ordinating role, but also through a number of other projects that we will do this year through our Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10688	Thank you, Council of Ministers Chairman. Does the representative want to comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10689	Thank you very much. Well, I know, of course, the jurisdiction, uh, in the country, I also know the responsibility and the ability for us to open these topics in this House and in the Council of Ministers. Here I'm just going to go through one of the statistics that, let's say, today the media is writing about it all the time, but somehow today, the coincidence is that just as the main topics took this particular area. In 2014, 68 000 people left Bosnia and Herzegovina, increasing trend in 2015, so they do not have yet precise results, are collecting them, but the trend of leaving Bosnia and Herzegovina is increasing. Most of them go from 24 to 40 years of age. On the spot, according to polls and research, the reason is business, there are no people to work and we all know that, so, secondly, there is dissatisfaction with the whole system that we have in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the judicial, security, educational, now not to list. In the Un-San canton, where I come from, so one of the main issues of people is... allow me to cross the border quickly, so that in 10 minutes I can get out of the country, or into the country because people are getting out of here. That, as it is called, the perspective and that position is ours now as we have it. We can close our eyes and always say that someone else is responsible and guilty, but that's the situation we have in the country. The Statistics Agency announced that 35% of less enrolled children in high school in 2015 are compared to 2011. You can imagine when that trend, let's say, continues. If we don't get 11 serious answers to what we're going to have in 2020? The Agency for Labour and Employment said that in 31.12.2015, there were 909 people less, or 909 people more unemployed than the previous month, of which 394 in the Federation of BiH, 470 in Republika Srpska, and that is the answer to my colleague, Majkić, who suggests and tells me – this is what you should set up for the entity, i.e. the governments of the canton and this government of the Federation of BiH. This question, and this dilemma, and this problem, to the governments of course entities, but to all of us in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Because of the inequality of legal regulation and discrimination, even those with jobs in Bosnia and Herzegovina are leaving. Here is the chairman, what is called, Krišto, says – from Livna 60 families left the country in January 2016. So please, be careful, you can think about these initiatives of mine and these attempts to open anything you want, but I'm asking you to really be the topics we're going to...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10690	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10691	So, and let's get going, let's put this on the agenda and, in that way, restore people's confidence that this is where we should stay. And I will propose, in accordance with this, that we hold one special session of both homes, and I now delegate it to the Council of Ministers, together with entity, cantonal governments, with whom it should be done, but to get as much information and concrete measures as possible so that we can discuss this issue fairly and transparently at this joint session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10692	The word is Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10693	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. I welcome everyone present in the O.R. At the 23rd session of the House of 12 January, I asked the parliamentary question of the chairman of the Council of Ministers on EU membership requirements for Bosnia and Herzegovina, explaining in a way that the BiH presidency defined the mid-January or late January session as a possible date for investment in membership requirements. At the same time, the chairman of the Bureau established this decision with the words that the deadlines would not be changed and that it had been adopted on the basis of information and information from the Council of Ministers that everyone must assume obligations, adapt to the deadline set, and that there was no need for prolonging excuses for technical reasons. That's when I voiced my suspicion that this presidency decision would come to an end. Here, we're witnessing that January expired, in February some new deadline was given. At that time, my suspicion was directed precisely, uh, and defined on the basis of the words of the Council of Ministers chairman that he suspected that we could meet this request in January. Both Mr. Šarović, as foreign trade and economic relations minister, expressed doubts that the request should be addressed by the end of June this year or in the first half of this year. meċutim, here's what we have, we have a new proposal or a new deadline set by the Bureau on February 15th, I think. I'm interested now, last time I asked if it was possible in January, it means that in February of this year, since part of the commitment has not been realised and knowing that, here we don't have a precise coordination mechanism. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10694	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10695	Here, I'm interested, do we really have this coordination mechanism and will this request that we refer to the EU be just a request because of the request or will it really be credible and be able to respond to future obligations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10696	The chairman of the Council of Ministers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10697	Thank you very much to the esteemed representative for the matter. I would conjecture my answer by making a single ruling with the current moment in which Bosnia and Herzegovina is located and in which we will hand over the membership application on February 15th and the moment when they would return only, say, eight, nine months or a year back when such an idea was not at all within any option and when within the impasse, which we witnessed then, could only consider trying to get Bosnia and Herzegovina back on the European rails. Now, a year after that, we have the conclusion that Bosnia and Herzegovina has strongly returned to the European path and the issue of surrendering the application is not only a matter of three conditions that are often repeated within the public space, this is a question of general impression of what Bosnia and Herzegovina has done in the past year, and a large number of different measures and activities on the path of European integration has been implemented, thus showing one new credibility and willingness to dynamic all the processes of European integration. In this sense, all the projects that have been set up in the report on BiH for 2015, our joint single performance at the Stabilisation and Association Council in Brussels, and on the Stabilisation and Association Committee in Brussels, to which we presented common positions in front of Bosnia and Herzegovina, to produce different documents related to a number of funds, from IPA 2 to other funds, showed a new atmosphere, a new atmosphere of issues of European integration. When we talk about the three most frequently mentioned terms then the Council of Ministers can very specifically prove credibility... Reform agendas, not only at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but at the level of the entities. If we are a little bit subjective in this, then you have reports of a number of NGOs, very respectable, organisations that have clearly realized that in the eighth time foreseen for the implementation of the Reform Agenda we have implemented more than 33% of the overall agenda, speaking cumulatively at the Council of Ministers and two entity governments, which means that it is a very credible progress in terms of the Reform Agenda. When I talk about the coordination mechanism he will surely follow the dynamics, his alignment will monitor the dynamics of the surrender of this application that will follow in the next ten days. And the final adjustment of the SAA regarding Croatia's entry into the EU is a matter which, with more precise deadlines, we will be able to speak after the next meeting of technical and professional teams, which will be held here in Sarajevo half of February. So, I am talking really about one important step, perhaps a historic milestone when we talk about the route of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that will be 15 February and handing over the membership application, and we all hope that what has been done will be positively assessed by representatives of the European Commission, later and the Council, and that we will get a very quick questionnaire, which is why we are actually moving to concrete work on meeting the conditions and realisation of the SAA. Thank you. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10698	Thank you, President. Does the representative want to comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10699	Here's the thing, I thank the chairman, and I'll be happy if all of this happens within the deadlines. Uh, why did I ask you a question? Well, precisely because the signals coming from the EU have in some way potentiated two very important issues, which is this coordination mechanism, which I still doubt, regardless of what the chairman said. Why? Because I don't have it on my desk and I don't know what it says, especially because of the situation on the ground I'm coming from, etc. That's one thing. The other thing, we don't have a population list, and there it's specified that the census is one of the essential preconditions for the application to be credible. I hope so, and here's what I want to believe is what he was talking about, the chairman of the Council of Ministers. We'll follow, and don't think when you ask questions like this that these are critical issues, they're just questions of some kind of joint work and accelerated and...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10700	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10701	Speeded up through Bosnia and Herzegovina and in the realization of this task. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10702	I give my word to counsel Lazar Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10703	Thank you, Madam Chairman. My question has been addressed to the Minister of Civil Affairs at the Council of Ministers of BiH, which is – When will the Council of Ministers consider, adopt and publish a Regulation on how to control prices, how to create prices for medicines and how to report prices for medicines in Bosnia and Herzegovina? In fact, this year, it will be 8 years since the establishment of the BiH Medicines and Medical Resources Agency and all of us who were present at the time have learned that it has been painfully achieved. The Act on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices of BiH predicted, among other things, that Bosnia and Herzegovina at the state level regulates maximum prices, wholesale drug prices. During that time, more than 4 billion KMs were allocated to medicines in Bosnia and Herzegovina, or funds. So, the annual cost for fund-raisers is from 500, on average 510 million to 550 million KM, actually 530 million KM on average. Bosnia and Herzegovina's citizens, either through funds or from a personal pocket, pay the highest price for medicines in the environment. Bosnia and Herzegovina is the only Southeast European country that has not adopted this Regulation and has not published, therefore, and implemented measures to regulate them. A recent letter from the World Bank to the presidents of the Council of Ministers and the Government of Republika Srpska and the Federation warned that only by adopting this rule in Bosnia and Herzegovina on an annual basis would save about 21% of the total costs. So that's about 112 to 120 million KM. 14 I will say, therefore, that there are different reasons why this is not done, in 8 years we lost 900, about 950 million KM, and on an annual level every citizen, every citizen, every citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina pays more for drugs, but compared to countries in the environment, 32 KM. In fact, every year we could only build one hospital out of this, and if the competent institutions cut the wholesale margin, the retail margin or
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10704	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10705	There was a correction of this, if VAT correction were to occur, so to differentiate the rate, we could build a 200-bed hospital every year and fully equip.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10706	Thank you very much. The Minister of Civil Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10707	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Representative Prodanović also asked the question as an MP to this high House, but also as a member of the Professional Council of the Medicines and Medical Devices of BiH. You were appointed to that position on 3 December 2008 and your mandate expired on 3 December 2012. But I will answer your question. Starting with the Law on Ministrys and other bodies of the BiH administration defined by the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs has asked the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs to provide a reply to that parliamentary question from the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices. The answer is - members of the Professional Council of the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices of BiH gave a positive opinion at the session held on 07.12.2015 on the new Proposal for a Regulation on how to control prices, how to create prices and how to report prices for medicines in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Agency shall, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 31. Rules of Procedure on the work of the BiH Council of Ministers, before sending the BiH Council of Ministers to the adoption of the proposed Regulation, referred to the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, the BiH Legislative Office and the Gender Equality Agency. The BiH Legislative Office and the Gender Equality Agency delivered a positive opinion on the proposal for a regulation, and the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury gave a negative opinion. The BiH Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices has sent additional clarifications to the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury on the proposal for a Regulation as well as an emergency for the re-imposing of opinions on the Regulation and the Ministry of Finance and Treasury is awaiting the opinion of the Ministry of Finance and Treasury in order to approach the adoption of the said Regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10708	Thank you, Minister Osmanović. Does the representative want to comment? Here you go. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10709	I'm partially satisfied with the answer, and I'm not entirely. I would like to announce to the public that the Council of Ministers published the previous Regulation in 2011. During that time that Regulation was never applied and we lost nearly 500 million KM on this basis. And the reason for that was that, therefore, one of the entities challenged the authenticity of the average prices of medicines based on which it is formed, so... price in the Republic of Croatia, Serbia and Slovenia. And that was why it was never applied, that the Agency's inspectors, who therefore exist at the Agency, would never do so. The regulation at the time was more favourable than this, he planned to form the price with a 90% coefficient compared to these average prices. I'm afraid it's never been applied. Now, what is the need to wait for the Ministry of Finance's opinion in the first place, and what costs are needed for this Regulation, if we save funds on average at 88 million and citizens of about 30 million KM, what reason is that? Or, earlier, I just couldn't say, that would mean at the monthly level.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10710	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10711	Greater pensions for all, for 100,000 pensioners in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Therefore, I do not believe that there is any reason for this Regulation, this Regulation, to be adopted by the Council of Ministers and published in the Official Messenger, and to force the agencies to implement this. So, do we protect public interest or different pharmaceutical lobbys from drug factories, which is not, no one will attack from the pharmaceutical industries of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because we are a much bigger market than Montenegro, we are a much bigger market than Slovenia and Macedonia. So there is no reason not to adopt this Regulation and not publish and finally send a clear message to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10712	I give the word to MPs Nermina Kapetanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10713	Thank you. The Honorable Madam Chairman, gentlemen of the chairman, chairman of the Council of Ministers, members of the Council of Ministers, fellow MPs and fellow representatives, media representatives. My question to the Ministry of Civil Affairs – What has the BiH Ministry so far done to protect the immaterial heritage in Bosnia and Herzegovina? My question relies on a very well-known UNESCO Convention on the Protection of Intangible Cultural Heritage with clearly issued UNESCO instructions on how to implement the process of listing World Intangible Cultural Heritage. I think this issue is very interesting for Bosnia and Herzegovina, making sure that a large number of Bosnian-Herzegovina brands authentic for Bosnia and Herzegovina are not yet included in UNESCO's list, especially with an accent on traditional bh crafts, Sevdalinka and Bosnian-Herzegovina cuisine, i.e. culinary, which are world-famous and unbranded. I know the losses caused by the non-branding of our products are huge. The safe step towards branding is to protect the designations of origin and geographical origin. I know that in order to be in the category of traditional must meet clear EU criteria that will mark geographical origin, clear technology and especially... production standards. And 16 is a challenge to Bosnia and Herzegovina. There is information that a product registration base is being formed, but I want to use this opportunity to ask the Council of Ministers to, in addition to what has been done so far, make additional efforts to make sure that anything that can be connected authentically with Bosnia and Herzegovina may become a brand, so leading, therefore, accounts and accounts for persons, buildings, institutions, and especially food coming from these areas. Please let me answer, let me see what's done so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10714	Thank you very much. BiH Minister of Civil Affairs. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10715	Thank you, Chairman. Bosnia and Herzegovina, as you said, ratified the UNESCO Convention on the Protection of Intangible Heritage on February 23rd 2009. The entity and cantonal ministries are under the obligation to comply with the UNESCO Convention on the Protection of Intangible Heritage. Following ratification of the Convention on the Protection of Intangible Heritage, the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, with the financial and technical assistance of the UNESCO Office in Sarajevo, organised a workshop for training representatives of all levels of government, NGOs, public institutions in investment, governance and other aspects of preserving immaterial cultural heritage. The workshop was led by independent international experts, and all participants in training received a certificate. This training has allowed our experts to start activities on making inventory of immaterial cultural heritage. The competent entity ministries appointed experts to record the immaterial heritage in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In co-operation with the NGO, local communities, which bear the immaterial heritage, curators, ethnologists from different museums and representatives of the academic community, have formed a preliminary list of non-material cultural heritage in BiH. In 2014, the preliminary list of the immaterial heritage of BiH, the representative list of the immaterial cultural heritage of humanity, included the first element from Bosnia and Herzegovina – the Snake Union, and the same year was submitted to the nomination of the horse's woodworking for enrolment on this List. The nomination document for cavalry woodworking was discussed at the meeting of the Committee on Intangible Heritage at the beginning of December 2015 in Namibia and based on the opinion of the Evolation Team The Committee decided that the Nomination Document should be completed in a section relating to one of the five criteria. The evolutionary report contains a recommendation from Bosnia and Herzegovina to submit an innovation of the nomination in the next cycle, which specifically means by 31.03.2016. The Ministry of Civil Affairs sent an act to the Federal Ministry of Culture and Sports asking that the Dora-based Nomination Document, in line with the conclusions and recommendations made by the Commission for Immaterial Heritage, delivers to the State Commission for Co-operation of Bosnia and Herzegovina with UNESCO by the end of February 2016, and that it could be considered by the State Commission for UNESCO and re-delivered to UNESCO by 31.03.2016. All relevant cultural ministries in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in line with the possibilities, provide financial assistance to realise projects in the area of preservation and promotion of immaterial cultural heritage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10716	Thank you, Minister. 17 Does the representative want to comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10717	I thank the Honorable Minister for his very correct answer. I want to take this opportunity to congratulate the Federation government for separating 100,000 KM for developing the branding only by the entity government, and I expect the Council of Ministers to do the same. I think it is very important that what has already happened is that the countries in the environment take away something that is traditionally Bosnian, that they have already branded in Slovenia "cevape" as their product. I think that "Bosnian pot", "lean cheese", "vosic cheese", "breed cheese", "shape jam", which is very authentic for Bosnia and Herzegovina and which can be very well exported outside Bosnia and Herzegovina, "fleet stew", and especially "urban dry plums", which they say are not produced anywhere in the world in the way that it is done in Gradac, I think they can represent a strong incentive both for tourism and for the economic strengthening of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina with a focus on Bosnia and Herzegovina's citizen who can materially strengthen it in the segment. And I ask you, with your capacity, with your reputation, to encourage these activities by expecting the prosperity of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10718	Thank you. Chairman Borjana Krišto, question.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10719	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, ministers, deputies, all co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, I warmly welcome you all to the honored media. My question is addressed to the Deputy Minister of Communications and Transport, which is why we were put in a position not to have one of the elements of the registration, so-called. sticker, and in what way and when is this issue going to be resolved? Since registration of the vehicle is mandatory, the label of the so-called ‘registration’ must also be used. a contacter containing information about when the vehicle is registered, and it disappeared last month in the places where they are issued, and they are issued certificates from the competent interior ministries, and in some ways a logical question is raised – what are these stickers for and whether they are necessary, can we do so without these stickers? On the other hand, if it really is an important element in the registration of a vehicle, then I ask the question – how could we get into a situation where we do not have such an important element in registration at the moment? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10720	Thank you. Is there an answer to the question of the Deputy Minister? Here you go, Dalipagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10721	The Honorable Chairman, Honorable Representatives, Ministers and Deputy Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. 18 The problem with the sticker's contacter has arisen as a result of the cancellation of the tender for public procurement of the sticker used in the registration of the vehicle, which was carried out by the Agency for Identification Documents, Records and Data Exchange of BiH, IDDEEA Namely, the Agency met the Ministry of Communications and Transport of BiH that the complaint by one of the bidders in the tender was adopted by Decision of the Office of Appeal, and the procedure of public procurement the contacter of the stickers was annulled and returned to the beginning. The Council of Ministers discussed and accepted the Information of the BiH Ministry of Communications and Transport regarding the problem of supplying stickers. During this time, the Agency for Identification Documentary, Recording and Data Exchange of BiH was ordered to ensure that in the vehicle registration process, through the information system, certificates will be issued that will be free of charge and replace the sticker after the expiry of their supplies until the new procurement process is completed. By 31.12.2015, the Ministry of Communications and Transport is tasked with delivering an instruction on the handling of stock-linkers of the stickers to all authorities responsible for the vehicle registration process, which the Ministry has realised within the specified time limit and the system currently works when registering. The Ministry of Communications and Transport is tasked with delivering, together with the Agency for Identification Documents, Records and Data Exchange of BiH, a proposal to the Council of Ministers for a decision on the establishment of an expert group to carry out an evaluation within 60 days of the possibility of removing the sticker contacts and switching to another methodology, using the experience of the EU and countries in the environment. We received names of persons from the Agency for Identification Documents, Records and Data Exchange who will be in the composition of the work hole, and we formed the same and the proposal for a decision will be addressed these days in the procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10722	Here, since I won't comment, I thank Deputy Minister Dalipagić for his reply. I give my word to MPs Hanka Vajzović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10723	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. A warm greeting to all who follow the work of today's session. My question is to the Council of Ministers. The Financial Audit Report on the implementation of the Budget of the BiH Institutions for the year 2014 of the Audit Office offers appropriate recommendations. In point 6. In particular, the report deals specifically with working bodies established at the level of the Council of Ministers and numerous of its institutions, as well as with my question, although the issue could be reliably, it may also need to be extended to some working bodies of the Parliamentary Assembly. So, I ask that in the light of the Reform Agenda, I think here on public administration reform, rationalisation of public spending, and on the basis of the regrets and recommendations of the Office for Auditing BiH institutions answer the question – What has been done specifically by the Council of Ministers of BiH on the recommendations of the Report on Financial Audit of Budgets, whether activities have been launched on the record, that is, point 6 of all working threads, commissions, committees, committees, groups, boards of administrative and supervisory, independent, our different, and could be commonly seen as being over-numbered institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in order to finally review, under one, the justification of the establishment and existence of a large number of working bodies, and to form their register with information on members by name, duration of mandate, tasks, fees and other, which is why you have been shown so much of the Court's report? Some 3 million are spent on these working bodies annually, which is from 2014 before that requirement.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10724	Time. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10725	Some 3 million budgets from Arnaut's colleagues, and this would rarely be seen as the results of some commissions and committees, with the fact that they are mostly mentioned by the same people who are in these commissions, so we even come up with a conflict of interest. So it would be good if such records were there, was she, since September this was an audit report, and was that ever done? I pray that my oral response be answered, and then, of course, information in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10726	In front of the Council of Ministers, who will answer? And the secretary, Secretary General of the Council of Ministers. Here you go, Mr. Kutleša.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10727	Thank you very much. Honorable MPs and MPs. There are more questions. To the first question – what has the Council of Ministers done specifically on the recommendations from the Report on the Financial Audit of the Report on the implementation of the BiH institutions' 2014 Budget, the answer is the following. The BiH Council of Ministers took note of the conclusions reached by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on the reports of the Audit Office at the time, and we were then, the Council of Ministers tasked the heads of the 36 institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina whose 2014 Financial Report on Business was assessed by an audit positive opinion with the emphasis on the subject of taking all necessary measures and responsibilities to avoid further consequences of the problem in business. The Council of Ministers commissioned the heads of Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions whose audit reports on the financial operations for 2014 were assessed by an audit opinion, the opinion by the reserve, with the emphasis of the case and the positive opinion, with the emphasis on the subject of preparations and the Council of Ministers to deliver plans to remove the audits of the identified shortcomings. These plans should include activities already undertaken as well as measures to be implemented with precise deadlines for their implementation. After considering these plans that arrive, following a review by the Council of Ministers and analysis, it will be submitted to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. The answer to the second part of the question, the Council of Ministers has, therefore, a precise record of all working bodies, commissions, boards of directors, boards, councils, advisory councils, groups, and I don't know what they're called, so there is, and if necessary we can deliver it to you. Of course, they are, they are changing, we have data from, it seems to me, last year, if necessary, with no suggestion so far, or no one has asked the question of justification of the existence of these bodies, because these governing bodies are mainly regulated by the laws which have been established by the authorities of the administration, so all agencies and independent administrative organisations and administrative organisations as part of the ministries. So it's a matter of legal solutions, there's, there's defined management and management structures and if you would evaluate the need for existence then that would mean intervention in all these legal frameworks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10728	I thank Mr. Kutleša. 20 Does the representative want to comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10729	Thank you, Chairman. Therefore, the question did not refer to the total audit, what was done in the Joint Audit Report according to the recommendations, but itself, the focus was on point 6 and then it was responsible for such records. If it exists then it is not clear why the Audit Report insists on all these points. I understand why auditors insist, because it was in the amount of payments in that year and 38,400 for only one person on the basis of these engagements in various working bodies, and then it would be safe, no matter how much the Council of Ministers intervened in some institutions, but the great costs are up to 3 million, as far as they're told here, in one year. So I'm asking if there's such a register, and I'm saying it's not clear to me that the auditors are looking for something that already exists, that we're being delivered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10730	I give my word to Representative Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10731	I thank the chairman. I welcome you, deputy colleagues, MPs and MPs, representatives of the Council of Ministers, all others present in the O.R. I wish everyone a successful day and work in today's session. My question is the chairman of the Council of Ministers and concerns the fulfilment of the remaining conditions for the submission of a credible application. A colleague, Salko Sokolović, asked a question in a similar direction, and I ask you, the chairman, do not take this issue as a criticism, but as a wish to inform us. This time there is no trick to the question, it is, in fact, intended to get information – at what stage is the implementation of the remaining conditions, or what about the coordination mechanism and what is the problem that it is not adopted, and how is it meant to overcome this problem? And as far as the SAA adaptation is concerned, I assume that you, as well as Minister Šarović, can give us some information just to bring this process closer to us, at what stage, is there perhaps a problem within the negotiations? It would be interesting to me, too, although I had no intention of asking you this, but you said in your answer to your colleague Sokolović that it was not only a question of handing over the application, but also a general impression, so I would be interested, and that aspect to explain it to us a little bit, since I, I must admit, I do not understand.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10732	The chairman of the Council of Ministers. Here you go, Mr. Zvizdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10733	I would like to thank the honourable representative for the matter. I'll krenuće with the last part of that question. So the impression Europe had, say, in 2013 or '14. the possibility for Bosnia and Herzegovina to submit an application, and as it is now, that is the issue of that impression, because it will assess the overall efforts and realised actions and activities that Bosnia and Herzegovina did in 2015 on the agenda of European integration and when it comes to credibility of the application itself. So, this is not just a question of these three conditions, but it is also a question of many other measures and activities that have been implemented in the mere period and which, I repeat, are very clearly detected and defined in the 2015 report for Bosnia and Herzegovina, and are also very clearly spoken by 21 persons, particularly the prominent high representatives, Mrs Mogerini and Commissioner Hana, that Bosnia and Herzegovina is back on the path of European integration and that the dynamics of realisation of the activity are going within the deadline. When we talk about concrete conditions, then we're talking, I said earlier, about the realisation of the Reform Agenda. As far as here's the level of the Council of Ministers alone, not to enter entity levels, of cumulative 33 measures we've completed 17 measures, which is more than 50%. When we talk about subanalytic measures, that percentage is 35%. We are ahead of us in the next, very condensed time period of three tasks that we will focus on in particular, and thus we are practically completing our commitments from the Reform Agenda, which depend exclusively on the Council of Ministers, and the rest must be in coordination with entity and other levels of government. So, we're going to work on the Civil Service Act, and there's a question of the list. As we know in the visit to Bosnia and Herzegovina is the leadership of Eurostat, they will meet with all three agencies and I think we can expect positive outcomes and positive results in this regard. Finally, amendments to the Excise Act, which should follow certain measures defined within the Reform Agenda. I have already said that the coordination mechanism and its alignment will be in line with the dynamics of handing over the application itself, which will be submitted on 15.02.2016. And when we talk about adapting to the SAA, then of course we're talking about a rather demanding project. Two technical meetings have been held so far, but more on the dynamics itself, the deadlines, the ways of adaptation itself, which should certainly be brought into line with certain principles and procedures that the European Commission has, but on the other hand, we will also take the utmost care of Bosnia and Herzegovina's interests, i.e. Bosnia and Herzegovina's agriculture. So we'll be able to tell more about it after the meeting,...the technical meeting, which will probably be held here in Sarajevo on 16 February. Then our negotiating team will be able to give a more detailed report, and then the Council of Ministers, or the BiH Presidency, will be able to define its negotiating position on that basis. And then we will also know the final or final deadlines for adapting the SAA to Croatia's accession, i.e. Croatia's EU accession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10734	Thank you. Does the representative want to comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10735	I thank the chairman. I understand the chairman of the Council of Ministers who is not easy for us, both as MPs and the public, to explain to us what is the problem with the coordination mechanism, which is so far not? Because that's what I asked. But here, we got information that he'd be adopted by 15. I didn't ask that, but it's useful to know. But we also received information that the 16th round of Stabilisation and Association Agreement negotiations will be held, which necessarily means that the application will be submitted without the conditions met. What again is political commitment and I may have a different opinion, but not disputed ones who feel that the application should be handed over whether or not they meet the conditions. meċutim, I don't think it is, and I can't agree with that, that it's not all a matter of terms, but a general impression. 'Cause I'm afraid by loving that policy they could
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10736	Time. 22 Saša
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10737	Here I am ending, we could quickly welcome that on the front page of the newspaper in the region someone says that the new Bosnian approach to European integration is such that, I quote, there are no results, but we have made an excellent artistic impression. I wouldn't want it to happen that way, and I wish it had results and the impression was good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10738	I give my word to Representative Mirsad Đonlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10739	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I'm taking the opportunity to welcome you and everyone else present in this room. My question will be referred or referred to the Honorable Minister, Mr. Mektić. I want to remind Mr. Secretary of the statements he made during last year, and I'm going to start in a row, and of course at the beginning of this year, I'm going to start in a row. At the 16th session of the House of Representatives, held on 27 August 2015, you said at the speaker of this House, I quote from the official stenogram – I promise you from this place there will be spectacular arrests. What you said, there isn't, there's going to be a discovery of difficult affairs, I promise you here, and it will, there will be arrests, I promise you, it's not that long when some will be making bills. You have continued these and similar announcements in various conversations, as I said, the media during the rest of that year, including the press show 23.12.2015, and at the beginning of this year such as your address to the media at SIPA headquarters on 4 January 2016, when you again announced spectacular arrests, according to numerous media reports. Taking into account all of the above, who were you referring to in all these precise statements of yours, and to quote you again - spectacular arrests, and does your definition of spectacular arrest, under quotes, entail the intrusion of a large number of masked specialists into the daily newspaper editorials? Of course there are still your statements, but here, I only took what was characteristic of the past period... Your statements, and kindly please answer me precisely, as precisely as possible to these questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10740	Answer, Minister Mektić. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10741	The Honorable President, the Honorable Members of the Presidency, the Members of Parliament and MPs, ladies and gentlemen. My political party or political alliance from which I come is, both in the pre-election campaign, and based on the results he has received here and based his political programme, he is now making promises that if we are part of the government, one of the main priorities of our political alliance will be the fight against organised crime, corruption, terrorism, etc. So, on the basis of such a political promise, we have got a certain number, to say a certain value, to say so, in the elections, we have entered power here, we have formed a part of the government, and we want to keep our political promise and what we have promised citizens and voters. There is no fight against crime and corruption without arrest, no prosecution and no, let me put it this way, ending some kind of criminal proceedings. My, my complete engagement which I, who I have committed here, is to create such a political environment,... to create 23 such a political ambience, or to actually create an ambience in which, together with the tužilaštvo, in daily communication, we will create such an ambience to reach the arrest and, or if not to the arrest, we have not fulfilled any of our political goals, or political promises that we have made. And I will continue to work on it, so that all affairs may be opened. What kind of affairs was I thinking about? Well, I was thinking about affairs that were less or more, i.e. to the greatest extent known to all citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina, about which the media spent hours and hours and hours and emissions, a number of material evidence and to a lesser or greater extent. The fact that they carried out and placed in public should now be turned through official judicial, plying authorities into certain processes, re-examined and examined certain matters, conducted certain investigations into it, and then a final decision is made whether there is a certain criminal offence or no criminal offence. So, I'm still standing at the point that we have to get to the arrest, to... and that will come. We came into this position, created such an ambience, established joint co-operation with the tužilaštvo, to work on the most serious cases and most serious affairs that involve severe corruption and serious abuse of designated functions. And I don't see what the problem is right now? What's the problem, who doesn't want it in this country and who doesn't? If I'm in a certain way, to put it that way, I didn't prejudge.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10742	Please, Minister, take care of the weather. We, I'm not interrupting to make the answer complete.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10743	I didn't prejudge any of them. I never mentioned anyone's name to be arrested. I don't care about that name. I'm interested in getting some light on some kind of corrupt character affair here. And the prosecution will come under such an investigation, on the basis of determined documents, to designated names for which an investigation can be initiated in a certain way, even if the indictment continues to be prosecuted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10744	Thank you. Does the representative want to comment? Please, please don't let us go with the warnings. Every MP, we have a point of question – comments. You know who can comment on the question, who can give the answer, and I ask you to stick to our Codex. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10745	First of all, I have to say I'm not happy with this answer. It's a shame. It's a shame to see a minister behave like this in this high house. This isn't a pre-election event. My question was explicit and I asked for an explicit answer. If I have to explain now what was the point of my question, and the essence of my question, I can do it, it's not at all controversial. But I think if he was making explicit promises, not pre-election, but explicit promises, the gentleman should have had so much wisdom, and not to say other things that go along with it, to clearly answer my question clearly. I am absolutely not satisfied with this question, and Mr. Mektić, if he does not have the courage to correctly answer the correct and 24 specific questions, then he should consider what he will do in that position in the future. So, once again I'm saying, I'm looking for a concrete question, I've asked, answer, I'm sorry, I've asked a question -- is this announcement of arrests that were explicit means that there'll be long pipes in the newsrooms and is this what's happening now,
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10746	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10747	Is that what Mr. Mektić announced? That was my question, not my pre-election phrases.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10748	I give my word to Representative Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10749	I thank the Honorable Chairman. takoċe I take the opportunity to welcome all my colleagues and present and media representatives. I refer my question to the BiH Security Minister, Mr. Mektić. Taking into account everything my colleague, esteemed Professor Đonlagić, has just quoted, so that I do not quote again, given that all of this is in the official stenogram of this House, your words are spoken for this same pay phone, including your very precise and explicit announcements, again, quote, spectacular arrests, spectacular arrests, these are your words that you have spoken even for that speaker in this sublime House, please tell us now that you are quoting a member and the position of someone, any law of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so here if you will and the entity, which you, as Minister of Security of BiH, gives you operational powers. I'm asking you, so you didn't seem to hear or understand the question, now I'm asking for an explicit answer, I want you to quote me a member and the position of the law of Bosnia and Herzegovina, or if you want an entity that, as a minister of security of BiH, gives you operational powers or the right to interfere in the operational work of the police at any level, the right or the possibility to announce police operations, and all arrests, including those spectacular ones, are imminent police operations, are you arresting police and you're announcing? On what basis do you as Minister of Security announce, I want a member and the position of the law? If such a member and the position of the law do not exist, please answer me on what basis have you, as Minister of Security, taken over such operational powers, on what basis have you interfered with the operational work of the police and announced the police actions of the operational nature? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10750	Thank you. Minister of Security, Mr. Mektić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10751	Thanks for asking. I don't have operational powers as a minister, not a single interior minister in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we have them at the level of canton, entity, state and, let's just say, in Brcko District, there's no minister, there's no operating authority. And I've never interfered with any operational authority. I've been a police officer for 35 years, I've worked 25 years on and suppressing crime, and corruption, and on the most difficult and complex cases, and I know very well what operational authority is. Let someone say, here's the police here, which I've taken from the operational authority and which I've exercised. Operational powers are prescribed by the Law on Police Officers, so says legislation, detention, deprivement of liberty, etc. No ID, no arrests, no arrests, nothing I've done. So I'm not involved, I'm not gonna get involved, I'm not gonna get involved, I'm not gonna get involved. Besides, I've been doing it for 30 years, and I've been looking forward to getting out of those powers, because I don't think I'm in favour of these powers at all anymore, nor am I, so please state any operational authority that I've exercised, here. And I know exactly what the tax authorities of police agencies and police officers are listed. You tell me which operational authority I am... Operational powers are being performed by police agencies in accordance with the order of the BiH Prosecutor's Office, and I really have no insights when, what, which operational authority they are taking, nor am I absolutely interested in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10752	Thank you, Minister. Does the representative want to comment on the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10753	I would, of course, especially, among other things, as the minister asked me to explain to him again which operational powers he used. So, you see, ministers, arrest is an operational authority. If you've been with the police for 35 years, you know that arrest is one of the basic operational powers, and it's forbidden to interfere with the operational work of the police. I didn't say that you went and arrested him, that you performed operational powers. What's forbidden and what you said at the beginning is that you have no right and you have answered me, thank you, there is not one law that gives you the right to interfere in the operational work of the police, but you have intervened in the operational work of the police by making promises of arrests. So you promised that there would be an operational operation by the police, and that's why you got involved in the operational work of the police. That's what I asked, and you confirmed, you yourself confirmed that you didn't have those legal powers, so you acted beyond your authority. I'll remind you of one more thing. You have addressed this House, 27.08., and made one heavy accusation of the work of the Independent Committee. That's when you said, "It's an independent committee."
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10754	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10755	in the hands, weapons in the hands of political elites and structures to influence police work. The independent committee shall act in accordance with the law exclusively on professional grounds. This law even provides for the replacement of members of the Independent Committee if they are determined in any way to violate those principles. On the other hand, you have not quoted us here any member of the law, nor have you been authorized to interfere with the operational work of the police, and for more than six months you have been announcing operational moves, spectacular arrests, which suggests that perhaps you, however, are the most powerful weapons in the hands of the political elites and the structure for influence on police work. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10756	I give the word to Representative Fehim Škaljić, the issue of the BiH Security Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10757	The Honorable President-in-Office, Ms. Krišto, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Chairman of the Council of Ministers Dr. Zvizdić, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, I welcome you. I'm glad we're gonna turn over the app on February 15th. She's not the result of haste, she's not the result of what Bosnia and Herzegovina is not resting on today, but she's not all she has to do. One of the things that becomes binding and dynamic for us is the rule of law. The right to the application, among other things, we have earned what we have in the area of the rule of law and the achievement through the Police Reconstruction Agreement, implemented in accordance with those three principles, legislative completion, financial independence and non-intervention of political and other structures in this work. I would ask the Honorable Minister, Mr. Mektić, to prepare information for me in this sense – where are we today in meeting these three principles, but at all levels? Why? Because the police can't be independent unless they're financed enough, and we don't know from this point what the situation in the counties or the entity level and the state level is like when it comes to providing money for 2016. And give us that exam. I suppose it'll also be a test of the coordination mechanism that stands before us as an obligation to check how these different levels communicate.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10758	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10759	The second thing we saw was that they were arguing over the jurisdiction of a particular police structure and that there was a problem of coordination in the realization of certain police actions "Ambassy", "Rajlovac“, "Srebrenica". Where are we with the coordination mechanism within it and how is it structured today, and what should we normatively or legislatively solve yet? And third thing, interference. I experience it in various ways and believe that there is interference in the work of the police, politically and non-politically. In what way? How can anyone who steals your car in 15 minutes know your phone and call you? You need to have an answer, it may be that it's random or otherwise, and it doesn't have to be from the police, as well as something else, which the public is commenting on in a lot of ways at this point. We are Parliament and we in the institutions of government must have complete answers. I'm not asking the Honorable Minister to give me an answer today, but I expect some comprehensive information about which I would manifest myself when I get it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10760	Thank you. Minister of Security Mektić. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10761	Thanks for asking. Of course, I've listened very carefully, and I'm sure this is about one thing, one request to do a comprehensive, comprehensive information on a number of issues, a series of 27 questions. And all I have to say is here, this is all you've instructed and mentioned as an example, it's a lot about the competencies of other low-level police agencies, so I don't think I could, or should take that role to answer that way. Otherwise, I could extend it in a way that I can make a request to other lower police agencies with these sub-questions so that I can supplement that in the light of one piece of information. But, you see, here's a short word when you mentioned meddling in the operational work of the police, etc., I say again, here I am speaking specifically and saying – I didn't intervene, with that announcement I didn't interfere with any operational work. I'm asking the police because we're at the bottom of the EU, about corruption, that corruption has entered every pore of our lives. I'm looking and I'm going to look, I'm making security priorities for the police agencies, and in my strategic and in this annual priority, there will be research, awareness of affairs, arrest of responsible persons who are responsible, and together with the prosecution prosecuted. But I have to give you an example where I'm going to point out, let's be politically correct, I didn't mention anyone that would be, I never specifically mentioned an affair here that you're targeting, even though I would mention it that I knew her, but don't cheat on me in '92. ...and the war here is who, who is who, I wasn't there, or in that place, and I know a lot about it, and I've talked to a lot of people, but I hope it's going to be a matter of the judicial agencies here, but when Mr. Fahrudin Radončić was the Minister of Security or Security of BiH and when he said I'm not sending the police to the protesters in the presidency, the police won't go there, was it the involvement in the operational work of the police. The minister can never give such an order, nor use the police, nor use the police. That's what the police decide. But you're letting us be correct, I understand the political moment, I understand and understand the situation, here's the political one, etc., I don't want to do anything to hurt or harm, but come on, don't pin it on anyone that doesn't have anything. But that there will be arrests, there will be, there must be, there is no other. It's on its way, there's going to be an affair, there's going to be a procedural affair, and there's going to be arrests.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10762	Thank you, Minister. Does the representative want to comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10763	I understand, Mr. Minister, about jurisdiction. I've been making that clear since the beginning. But I would ask the Ministry's efforts to get a complete picture from these three segments, that's a European requirement, and in the end, we're not going to make a function out of segments, but from the whole. If there is a coordination mechanism as a condition, and we claim to have it in our hands within this time limit, it is a lever over which we can get all these facts. It's going to be facts that someone's going to do and join that information, but we're going to have a whole and we're going to be able to analyze. A lot of things happen in this country that confuse people. I've been running some analysis that says Sarajevo citizens have invested about 100 million in security systems, lion claws, doors, alarms, cameras, etc. Why? Well, because they feel certain uncertainty and we need to discuss it.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10764	Thank you. I give my word to President Mirsad Isaković. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10765	I thank the chairman. 28 I will be very brief. So my question thus concerns Minister Mektić. Taking into account one of the three principles of the European Commission, which Mr Škaljić had just quoted, is it, and especially the one relating to political interference in the operational work of the police, as well as the fact that meeting all three principles was one of the main conditions for the conclusion of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina, please respond – Will you bear the consequences if one of the official European institutions in one of their reports sets out your announcements on spectacular arrests, as well as an example of violations, deviations or lack of commitment to the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, i.e. your announcements as an example of bad practice regarding political interference in the operational work of police? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10766	Thank you. The Secretary of Security, the answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10767	Thanks for asking. Of course I have to be responsible for everything I do wrong, what I do illegally and what harms this country. And I will bear responsibility, and I have so much, to say so, I bear in myself the moral consciousness that if I were to leave this position in case I were to do any damage to Bosnia and Herzegovina on its way to European integration or to do some other kind of damage that could, uh, measure any material damage. But I said the same way I'm going to get out of this position, I don't need to be in this position if I can't create opportunities and ambience to fight corruption. I don't care who answers, I don't know who answers, but I know we have to start. Corruption is a systemic evil, destroying the country's economic base, the country's economic foundations. And I would ask if I can get the support of this Parliament to fight corruption, because it will be a key issue of our European integration and our progress. So, but let me tell you, in the report, the European Progress Report of the Ministry of Security of Bosnia and Herzegovina has a positive, has a positive trend, in a positive sense all the time. And I was sitting with the representatives of the European Commission the other day, and Mr. Vigemark was there, and I'm saying this now, where he personally told me that the Ministry of Security in this year has made terrible progress in the sense that one process and one environment in which to fight corruption, of course, I mean terrorism, and organised crime, and that, here, I'm going to quote it specifically, in his opinion this ministry has made the best progress in this 2015. And we will see if this will be found in the report, European, on Bosnia and Herzegovina's progress. And once again I say, if I do any damage to Bosnia and Herzegovina's integration processes or any other kind of material damage, of course I'm going to leave this position, it won't, you don't need to remind me at all, but I'm not leaving this position because of someone's political calculator interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10768	Thank you. 29 Does a representative want to comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10769	Thank you, Minister. I hope these statements have entered the official record, or a stenogram from this session, and then we'll sometimes ask you about what you said, so for these three, four questions. But I would also remind you that Mr. Radončić, when he was in your place, that he was asked to form an operational headquarters, and he responded just like that, did not want to form an operational headquarters, did not want to interfere with the operational affairs of the police. So that's what you're different about, you and he are different. And secondly, here you've really received our full support, this House has given you full support, but for one successful work, for the fight against corruption, which, of course, is the goal, I think, of all the people here who are present, all the representatives here, and everyone, if you were, uh, at that session, they all unanimously gave you support. I think from what they've given you, we have nothing, and we're going to see how things are going to develop, but at this point, what you've done, I don't think it's good.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10770	I give my word to President Jasmin Emrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10771	I thank the chairman. First of all, I would like to remind you that I did not get an answer to my question from the Ministry of Communications and Transport at the last session, and about the Plan for Reconstruction and Modernization of the Union Strip. Today I question the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, and the same is true – at what stage is the ratification process of the Protocol on Strategic Environmental Impact Assessment signed with the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment of Cross-State Borders? Did the requested opinions come from the competent entity ministries and the Brcko District, and when will we finally ratify the said Protocol? I asked a similar question in the 10th month, then the Honorable Minister gave the answer to expect the opinions of competent entity ministries and Brcko District, and that we will soon ratify the Protocol. Here, 4 (?) the month, still the Protocol has not been ratified, and I must therefore stress that at this moment it is very important to ratify the Protocol in question, because the ratification of Bosnia and Herzegovina is gaining the status of the agreed party and can finally interfere with the strategic environmental impact assessment process that will take place if a landfill or disposal of radioactive and nickel waste is built in the Republic of Croatia along the very border with Bosnia and Herzegovina. Unfortunately, more than 15 years of local authorities have taken action to prevent the construction of this dump, to wipe out the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia and the strategy for the disposal of radioactive and nuclear waste. The competent institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina have done almost nothing to interfere with the clans, and it is these documents and ratifications of this protocol that allow Bosnia and Herzegovina to be active in these procedures. I therefore ask the Minister for an answer and hope that, as soon as possible, at the next session, we will have on the agenda a ratification of this Protocol. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10772	Thank you. 30 Response, Foreign Trade and Economic Relations Minister Mr. Šarović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10773	I hope that the answer will be very brief and to say that, compared to the response we gave some months and a half ago, progressed, and the ministry has received all necessary positive opinions from the relevant ministries from Republika Srpska, the Federation of BiH and the Brcko District, and at its 38th session, held on 08.01 this year, supported the initiative of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH on the accession of our country to the Protocol on Strategic Environmental Assessment with the Convention on Impact Assessment of the Natural Environment of Cross-State Borders, we are referring to the Espo Convention. The ministry is tasked, by the Council of Ministers, to deliver to the Council of Ministers a basis for the conclusion of international agreements under the Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international agreements with the Council of Ministers. That's the move the Ministry took. Acting in accordance with that Ministry is in accordance with Article 4. The law on the conclusion and enforcement of the international agreements between Bosnia and Herzegovina has drawn up a draft proposal for the launch of a procedure which forms an integral part of the basis for the entry into the Protocol, which you have talked about, and has also been submitted to the Council of Ministers for adoption. My expectations are that within two weeks, at the first or second session of the Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers will establish, in accordance with the procedure envisaged, a proposal to launch the procedure and forward the BiH presidency to adoption. My expectations are that it's a week and not months and we're very close to ratification of this Protocol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10774	Thank you, Minister. Does the representative want to comment on the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10775	Very short. I hope the minister understands my questions and activities regarding the location of the deposit or disposal of radioactive and nuclear waste, and that it is not directed at anything and is not an objection to the minister, but to the slow work of the administration, because in the 6th month of last year we adopted the conclusion that this procedure is urgent. I understand that there is a procedure but seven months have passed and we have not yet ratified the Protocol, and as I judge it, it is more formal nature, the ratification itself. And so many protocols have been ratified over the past period, we haven't had any discussions, and this is about one consensus on the opposition to the construction of a nuclear and radioactive waste dump at the site as contained in the strategic documents of the Republic of Croatia. And I expect that, following the ratification of the Protocol, there will be one continuous activity of involvement in the strategic environmental impact assessment process and that Bosnia and Herzegovina will finally use the mechanisms it has in accordance with the Espo Convention and other conventions that regulate this area.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10776	I'd like to thank the representative. And here, after two hours, we exhausted questions, answers, and comments. Now we're moving on to the establishment of the agenda. As for the change and addition of the session's agenda, I would like to mention the following. They have been completed: 31 Point 6. Proposal for a Law amending Bosnia and Herzegovina's Penal Code – Proposer: SNSD and SDS representatives, issue: 01,02-02-1-27/15, of 17.12.2015, with the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission, which is negative. Point 7. Proposal for a Law on the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: SNSD and SDS representatives, issue: 01,02-02-1-28/15, of 17.12.2015, with the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission, which is negative. From the previous agenda, and in accordance with the request of the Joint Committee on Human Rights which did not consider those initiatives, as the applicant was not present to the Committee, the following points were removed: point 15. Consideration of Senad Šepić's parliamentary initiative at the 21st session, held on 10.12.2015, which reads: "I propose that you set up a point on the agenda of the following meetings under the title: Establishing a parliamentary group to promote the right to freedom of faith and conviction, in accordance with Article 18. General Declaration of Human Rights, issue 01-50-1-1574/15. Point 16. A review of Senad Šepić's parliamentary initiative at the 21st session, held on 10.12.2015, which reads: "I propose that the BiH Parliamentary House College of Representatives put the item on the agenda of the next session entitled: Information on freedom of speech and the state of media freedom in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with special emphasis on attacks on journalists", issue: 01-50-1-1575/15. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Representative Saša Magazinović called for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10777	I thank the chairman. I propose, in accordance with Article 71(1). The Rules of Procedure, to supplement today's agenda item – Bosnia and Herzegovina's obligation to develop legal legislation in the area of cybersecurity in accordance with the Convention on Cyber Crime and the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Let me explain. I have asked the Ministry of Security a representative question related to hate speech, i.e. overall crimes committed via the Internet with special reference to hate speech, terrorist activity, support for terrorism, murders, calls for violence, etc. The answer I received from the Ministry of Security, which people have worked on... is one of the better answers to the parliamentary questions I've ever received, whether I like it or not. And I wish in the contents of this answer, which you all got, a lot more passed laws, a lot more things that are good for the safety of all citizens. Unfortunately not. However, this is one of the better answers because based on it, you create a complete picture of the situation we are in when this area is concerned. And I'd like all the answers we get to MPs' questions to be like this, whether it's good or bad. Why would I suggest that it be a part of the agenda? The security ministry, or the SIPA, or whoever has already participated in this response, is ending this comprehensive response with a very dramatic sentence, which I say and I believe is true, says the Ministry of Security is seeing one of the key security problems in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In this response, you can see that since 2001, when Bosnia and Herzegovina adopted the Cyber Crime Convention, so 15 years ago, not much has been done to date. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement, here you can see in this answer what all of our tasks are to adapt our legislation, is not very time-consuming. The formation of a special team to respond to computer incidents is not done. And many, many things standing here. I believe that Parliament, and I end up, through the conclusions that I have so proposed, which have been delivered to you, along with, of course, the participation of the people of the Ministry of Security and the extended information of this whole, should strengthen the activities and give the Council of Ministers the task of doing what is expected to be 16, 12, 8, 5 and depending on how many years it has been committed. There, that was my intention. I'm sorry I suggested this this way. I'd have done it a long time ago and we'd have delivered a lot sooner, but last week we were at a meeting in Strasbourg, and I didn't have this material at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10778	Thank you. The debate, Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10779	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. So I propose, or I call on the motions of points 6 and 7 of today's agenda, so amendments to the Criminal Law and the Proposal for a Constitutional Court Act, that these two points of the agenda be withdrawn from the agenda today. They can do it as pronouns. meċu the many reasons why I call on the promoters to do so are the following. First of all, I must say that I am absolutely, as well as the SDP Club, committed to one healthy, serious and equal dialogue on all issues, including the issue of law and the Constitutional Court of BiH, etc. However, we are here to witness that the climate has been publicly created that we cannot have a serious dialogue on these issues today. Why? The president of Republika Srpska's entity said publicly that we MPs must adopt the draft law on the Bosnia and Herzegovina Constitutional Court within 120 days. It's not a dialogue, it's an ultimatum. And that is why I must say, and I believe most here, that no one has the right to place ultimatums for state deputies in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I publicly refuse such an ultimatum. The second reason why I call on the promoters to withdraw this is the fact that any debate on these two points of the agenda today can only produce disputes, fluctuations, foot mistrust and distance us from existential issues and issues of European integration. The third thing that makes me think that this is supposed to be taken out of the agenda today, because the point is no. 7th, therefore, the Proposal for a Law on the Constitutional Court, the problem of the presence of foreign judges to the Constitutional Court, or the external factor in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I must say that there is no need to do so, given that I will now publicly say that within the ruling parties, both at the state and entity level, there is a full consensus on the preference of the external factor in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Only there is no consensus if we ask another question which and whose external factor in Bosnia and Herzegovina. 33 In the end, therefore, as the fourth reason, we will be witnesses and after the vote today, in which I was killed, I think this will indeed be a complete waste of time without any effect, and therefore I repeat the proposal and call on the proposings to withdraw these two points of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10780	Thank you very much. I don't see any more reports at this point. I'm closing the debate on the agenda. As for Mr Saša Magazinović proposal to include a new item in the agenda of today's session – Bosnia and Herzegovina's commitment to making legal legislation in the area of cybersecurity in line with the Convention on Cyber Crime and the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, I have briefly made consultations here in the College. Our proposal would be to the MP, since this is a rather important topic, that this is as prepared as it is, since you said, on your own, that in some way, ninam(?) Is a well-prepared point in terms of the position, perhaps, of some commission and Council of Ministers, or, specifically, the Ministry of Security, it is our proposal to plan this point for the next session of our House. As for Agent Denis Bećirović, requesting the withdrawal of points 6 and 7, I did not see any of the proposings come forward in terms of the plea. So these points stay with us in the Rules of Procedure as mandatory points in today's session of the agenda. And here, I just want to say after that, this is if Agent Saša accepts that we're not saying anything about this, because here's the thing. Here you go, Mr. Magazinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10781	The Honorable Chairman, I accept your suggestion and it is not us, I think it is an urgent matter, but here, if it waits 16 years, it can wait for another session, but I would like the Honorable Minister to show some kind of consent and to prepare this point seriously for the next session and that we as Parliament give some strength and little initiative to run some things that are waiting. There.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10782	Thank you. Here, after the debate on the agenda I conclude that the 24th session of the House has the following: Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 23rd session of the Parliamentary House of BiH; 2. Comments on questions received; 3. Proposal for a law on strike of employees in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Number: 01,02-02-1-24/15, of 10.12.2015. (second reading); 34 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Ministry and other bodies of the administration of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Number: 01,02-02-1-25/15, of 10.12.2015. (second reading); 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Governance Act - Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-30/15, of 22.12.2015. ( second reading); 6. Proposal for a Law amending Bosnia and Herzegovina's Penal Code – Proposer: SNSD and SDS representatives, issue: 01,02-02-1-27/15, of 17.12.2015, with the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission; 7. Proposal for a Law on the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: representatives from SNSD and SDS clubs, issue: 01,02-02-1-28/15, of 17.12.2015, with the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission; 8. Proposal for a law on the use and management of property in the state property of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MPs Šemsudin Mehmedović and Zaim Backović, issue: 01- 02-135/15, of 25.12.2015. (first reading); 9. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Associations and Foundations of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-38/15, of 30.12.2015. (first reading); 10. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Commission for Gender Equality of the PSBiH House of Representatives, Law No: 01-02-1-79/16, of 05.01.2016. (first reading); 11. Report from the Joint Commission on both homes to achieve the same text of the Asylum Act (proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-12/15, of 06/08/2015).; 12. Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "Command Management of Customs Terminals", material of the BiH Institutions Audit Office, issue: 01/4-16-1-1548/15, of 07.12.2015; 13. Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "Procurement of personal documents – case study", material of the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions, issue: 01/4-16-1-105/16, of 06.01.2016; 14. Consideration of Šemsudin Mehmedović's parliamentary initiative at the 21st session, held on 10.12.2015, which reads as follows:, "On the basis of Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH, I submit a parliamentary initiative to form the Committee for the Selection of the Texts of Bosnia and Herzegovina", issue: 01-50-1565/15; 15. Consideration of Denis Bećirović's parliamentary initiative, submitted at the 22nd session, held on 30.12.2015, which reads as follows: "On the basis of Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, I submit a parliamentary initiative in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers to submit, no later than 30 days from the date of adoption of this initiative, a report on attracting foreign direct investment in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2015 with a proposal for measures to improve the policy of attracting foreign investment," issue: 01-50-1-1648/15.; 16. Review of Dušanka Majkić's parliamentary initiative submitted on 05.01.2016, which reads: "In accordance with Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, I launch a parliamentary initiative to include the agenda of the PSBiH House of Representatives: Analysis of the situation in the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the diplomatic and consular network of BiH", issue: 01-50-1-82/16; 17. Consideration of Senad Šepić's parliamentary initiative, submitted at the 23rd session, held on 12.01.2016, which reads: "The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives obliges the Council of Ministers and other competent institutions to urgently prepare and send information to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on the state and phenomena of peer violence and violence to children in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with a proposal for measures", issue: 01-50-11650/15; 18. Consideration of Senad Šepić's parliamentary initiative, submitted at the 23rd session, held on 12.01.2016, which reads: "The Council of Ministers of BiH and other competent institutions and bodies of 35 BiH are bound to, in accordance with the provisions of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the border crossings, urgently initiate the procedure for amending and supplementing the contract mentioned, and in the direction of ensuring the retegorisation of the small-scale crossings of Zagrad – Pašin Potok, Plazikur – Gejkovac and Hadjin Potok – Bogovava in border crossings for international passenger traffic. The PSBiH House of Representatives tasks the Council of Ministers of BiH to inform the Council of its activities in this direction no later than 30 days," number: 01-50-1-94/16; 19. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Union establishing a framework for the participation of Bosnia and Herzegovina in European Union crisis management operations, No: 01,02-05-2-39/16, of 04.01.2016; 20. Approving the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federal Council of Switzerland relating to regular air traffic, No 01,02-05-2-40/16, of 04.01.2016; 21. Giving consent to the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on Co-operation in Telecommunications, No 01,02-05-2-217/16, of 15.01.2016; 22. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on cooperation in the field of environmental protection and sustainable development, No 01,02-05-2-218/16, of 15.01.2016. Moving to point one, Ad. 1. The adoption of the 23rd session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives You've got the record. Any objections? I don't see any reports. I am concluding the debate under point 1. Moving to point two, Ad. 2. Comments on answers received to parliamentary questions
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10785	I thank the Honorable Chairman. As for the foreign ministry's response here, I declare that I am not, I am using a business opportunity, I declare that I am not satisfied with the answer and I am announcing an additional question. takoċe I'm taking the opportunity to point out that I'm still waiting, the deadline is over, three replies from the Foreign Ministry. Let me remind you that I never got an answer on time from the Foreign Ministry, and every time here I hope that the Foreign Minister will be there for him to hear it too, but I haven't really seen him in any session but the Constitutional Council of Ministers. I would like the services to prepare the information, if necessary and officially submit, information on how many times the foreign minister has attended the sessions of this House and so on, which is the percentage of the response within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because it is already becoming a rule. The reason I'm not satisfied with this particular answer, I mean here and this becomes a rule. I ask explicitly – what activities they took between July 2013 and December 2015, and they write in response what they did in 2012. I mean, isn't it clear to anyone what it means between July 2013 and December 2015? That's one thing. As for the response I received from the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, I am using the business opportunity to declare that I am not satisfied with this answer, and I am announcing an additional parliamentary question. meċutim, I believe this is an extremely important issue, and I am aware that this is not something caused by the minister of civil affairs. meċutim, here I am, not here but I am asking him, and I will ask him personally to take care of what services in that ministry are preparing. Because we have here, I dare even say, trying to deceive me as an MP who referred the question to this House too. Because in my question, I have very clearly asked for an answer – which is why, when it comes to the proposed agreement on a work holiday programme between New Zealand and Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is why the Ministry of Civilian 37 jobs in their replies to the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Embassy, which covers New Zealand, has been instructed that the Ministry in the Work Programme did not plan to conclude such an agreement, and thus does not have sufficient capacity to participate in its conclusion. It's me, what asked me to ask this question? The fact that I read in some Croatian daily newspaper an interview with a guy who used the Work Holiday Programme that the Republic of Croatia has locked up with New Zealand, and this Work Holiday Programme implies the participation of 100 citizens of the country who have such an agreement with nov Zeland to spend a year in New Zealand, have the right to work, travel and live there for a year. And 100 young people, I think it's restricted until 35, 100 young people take part in it every year. And the rush in Croatia is huge and it is one experience excellent, and also these young people have a chance to earn. The representatives of New Zealand, a particularly high New Zealand commissioner, openly offered Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2011 to apply for such an agreement to New Zealand and then, when communicated to our authorities, followed by a response from the Ministry of Civil Affairs, the Ministry of Civil Affairs in the Work Programme did not plan to conclude such an agreement, and thus does not have sufficient capacity to participate in its conclusion. Since this is how they wrote it, the opportunity has failed, and in the meantime Croatia and Slovenia have concluded it. So, Croatia and Slovenia didn't have it at the time, then it was necessary for us and probably for them, and probably not for their authorities to provide such an irresponsible response. And then when I ask why you did it, they absolutely burn my question. And here I am now, hoping that the Minister of Civil Affairs will be here somewhere in the building, asking for services to be taken to him, here's a response from the Ministry of Civil Affairs saying that the Ministry in the Labour Programme didn't plan to conclude such an agreement and that it didn't have enough capacity to participate in its conclusion. I think it's the Ministry of the Most Assistant Minister. And now I'm underlining again, so this is something that happened long before Mr. Osmanović took over that Ministry, this isn't something he was working on. So I fully understand that this is not his failure, but I ask him, here and openly, to deal with who made the failure of the ministry, to establish responsibility, to determine whose decision it was that they did not have these capacities and why Bosnia and Herzegovina today, unlike Croatia and Slovenia, does not have a programme of working holidays with New Zealand, which, note, allows young people up to 35 years, 100 young people, 100 per year, to spend a year in New Zealand, not only living there, but also working there, and it is understood that they would save one piece of that money and bring it to Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that so would be a stimulus to Bosnia and Herzegovina's economy. So I'm going to ask this and the official supplemental question, and I'd like to ask one of the services if they can help me take this to the Minister of Civil Affairs. I'm aware that I have no limit in this course of discussion, so I've taken a little more time than usual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10786	Thank you. Nikola Lovrinović, commentary.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10787	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I welcome you, colleagues and colleagues. 38 I asked the question of the Audit Office and it was related, I must admit that I may not have been clear to them, although it seems to me that they understood what I was asking them, I may not have specifically said which audit report I was thinking about, and it is, therefore, on the audit report in August, I stated it all, but I did not say that this was about the issues of ensuring transparency in my work when it comes to accessing information. It's an audit report. In fact, I was commenting through the... report, and I supported this report, and it seemed to me that this way of working and auditing certain institutions on certain issues was the Office of Audit, or something that, in my opinion, did not belong to them. So, if they remember their colleagues, it was in August of last year, so let's say, one single remark from that report says -- it is not a rare phenomenon that BiH institutions do not meet the prescribed legal obligation to supply data, and different interpretations of certain legal provisions lead to different practices of BiH institutions, in the case of complaints to which each applicant has the right to apply. It's meant to be the delivery of information. So finally, in that izviješće, it was a recommendation, about, that I am not reading it now that I am not wasting my time, to suggest to the Council of Ministers that they make changes and supplement the Information Access Act. All that report concerning it, it was also under Article 14 although I did not ask for the provisions of that article to be me, it was your Office of Audit having the right to conduct... an impact review, Article 14, I asked to comment on Articles 13, 3, 13 and 16 and I was almost sure that I would get this answer because they actually, what they thought they did, they did that audit. However, this report, which I am specifically talking about, has nothing to do with the budget, with spending money, with efficiency, except in some legislative sense, administrative-legal sense, and I don't know which one. And I'm not sure if that's what the Audit Office is authorized to do. And I will, of course, have to repeat that question to the Joint College or the Legislative Sector, because, for example, I have a second report on the audit of the impact they have been working on for energy efficiency, and therefore it is being monitored, exactly what I think makes sense to do audits, to watch, therefore, the situation in institutions from the corner of spending public funds, transparency and all that, etc. What she did with the question of access to public information seems to me to have entered some administrative-legal audit, I'm not sure she has, I've read the law all about it, and it seems to me that the spirit of the law doesn't talk about these special ones, so to speak, audits can be done this way. So, the Office of Audit, I say, took it upon himself, under the assumption that it has the right to Parliament, the Council of Ministers, I don't know who, says that your law is wrong, that you have to change it, that it does not provide what is expected of it, and it has nothing to do with money. So I think the role of the main Audit Office is to monitor the spending of public funds and the transparency of the process and the legality of the process, not to give constitutional justice matters insight. I don't think they're right, but I'm going to repeat that question to the Joint College to see what the College thinks about the articles, meaning 3, 13 and 16, that is, the legislative and legal sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10788	Thank you. Mirsad Đonlagić, commentary.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10789	Thank you, gentlemen of the presidency. 39 So I asked the Agency for Medicinal Products, and I completely agree with my colleague, Prodanović, who commented on the answer he received, so with this question and with the question asked by his colleague, Prodanović, we actually touched only one part of the problem that is related to the medicines. And I want to warn you that the situation is really extremely serious and requires a very serious intervention. In that sense, and the answer I received from the Agency is not the answer I expected from a serious institution that should deal with this issue because it is solely its jurisdiction. They replied to me that the list of essential medicines and the positive list is not the same. Well, that's something that I don't really care about, I just want to know that as soon as possible to one satisfactory, quality essential list and to make a comparative analysis of this state with a review, taking into account the situation in one, in another entity, and in Brcko District. So here's to not elaborate further, I want to point out once again that I am not satisfied with the answer received and that I am asking for the Agency to be more serious and to take more seriously the questions we are asking her and to get in that sense and the correct answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10790	Mirsad Isaković, commentary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10791	I demand the chairman. At the 23rd session, I asked the question – when can we expect the Internet Trade Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina. My idea was to get that law as soon as possible and to stimulate the ministry, or the Council of Ministers, to go into action with it. Such a law exists in Europe, such a law exists in neighbouring countries, and even Europe's influence last year and 2012 to make some changes to the law in neighbouring Croatia. My argument is, therefore, that this law is necessary because it defines the headquarters of the company, their work, import-export customs numbers, etc., etc. Only opening such a law would open up a lot of jobs for young people. I was really surprised when I got a quick answer, but when I read the answer to this question I couldn't believe, here I see a colleague too. The answer to that question, therefore, was signalled by the Council of Ministers chairman, and he probably directed it towards the Ministry of Communications and Transport. The answer was that this area, so there is already a 2007 law that regulates this area and that of the Law on Electronic, Legal and Business Transport. It doesn't matter, so there's nothing like it, let alone these two laws. The Internet trade or distance shopping law defines the purchase relations of a commercial company, i.e. companies to be registered and to be engaged in trade. And this law defines, so I will just, here I have it, so the subject of the law is the provision of information society services, the obligation of the service provider to conclude contracts or the responsibility of the service provider. He means information services. So, there's no connection or similarity to anything, I got something else entirely. I would ask, therefore, to approach this issue quite seriously and to get an answer. I will Koristiću the opportunity for the competent ministry to repeat, repeat this question and ask the competent ministry to provide me with an appropriate answer to this question. They could therefore answer that simply this law is in the process, so either it is not jurisdiction, or it is in the jurisdiction of some laws that are passed in the process of entering the EU, etc., etc., but this really doesn't make any sense. Thank you very much. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10792	Thank you very much. jasmin Emrić, comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10793	I thank the chairman. I apologize, I've reviewed the mail again, I can't find an answer to my asked parliamentary question to the Ministry of Communications and Transport. I've found a lot of these answers here, but I can't find this answer, I don't know when it was delivered or if it was delivered.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10794	You have it in an electronic version.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10795	I didn't get a chance to check it out. I can't comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10796	You can comment perhaps at the next session.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10797	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10798	Thank you very much. Commentary, Hanka Vajzović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10799	Thank you, Chairman. In fact, I didn't get an answer, and I am expressing dissatisfaction, especially with the fact that today we have a point 12 on the agenda that deals with the same issues, and the question has been addressed to the Council of Ministers. At that previous session, there was no one to answer, no written answer was received, and the question was – what total revenues of the Directorate for Direct Taxation were achieved on all basiss of border crossings and customs terminals? We know there's a lot of problems there, and that's why I asked a question like this. It's on the agenda today. I don't know why, if there's already an audit report that we're talking about today, why isn't this question answered orally or in writing? Well, I guess we'll be able to talk more about it on point 12, if there's no one to answer today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10800	Thank you. Senad Šepić, commentary. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10801	Thank you very much. So, very briefly. I asked one of the questions to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and the Council of Ministers. In one question, there was... a requirement for data to be delivered regarding the appointments made by the Parliamentary Assembly and the Council of Ministers in 2015. I got the answer, but I just have the part that was done by the Parliamentary Assembly. I'm thanking this Department for documentation and information, this is really one so serious and so professional response. But here's just a comment, I expect to have the same answer from the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10802	Thank you very much. At this point, we've exhausted our comments on the answers received. Before we move to point 3 on the basis of Article 27(f) I shall limit the debate to all points of the agenda to 5 minutes. Now we move to point three Ad. 3. Proposal for a Law on strike of employees in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading) The bill was adopted in the first reading at the 23rd session of the House, held on 12.01.2016. The Constitutional Commission delivered 02.02.2016. Report on the bill's proposal. Three amendments have been adopted that have become an integral part of the bill's proposal. I'm opening a debate. I don't see any reports, Zaim Backović, I apologize, the debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10804	Thank you, Madam Chairman. As I was saying last time and here I'm going to set up a few dilemmas for the simple reason that the accuracy of the law gives the possibility of normal application. I asked the question, this is where you say with the organizers of the strike of potential, the suspension of work. Who, how are the strike organisers, and could it be that we have two strike organisers since we have no union association law at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There is no such law. That's one dilemma. The second dilemma is, which is very, very, very sensitizing at all, something called a strike. What union are employees of state institutions? On what basis will they be organized? Whether or not as self-organized groups, because this is mentioned here, the organizers of the strike. And you don't have who they are, what they are, their name and last name. These are the dilemmas which may call into question the application of this Law in possible situations when it comes to the need for employees in state institutions to express their rights by suspending work.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10805	Thank you very much for your esteemed representative. 42 We did not comment, but you forgot that the debate was in the second reading and that we were discussing the amendments, but here we allowed it. I don't see any more reports at this point. I'm closing the debate on the third item of the agenda. Moving to point four, Ad. 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Ministry and other bodies of the Bosnia and Herzegovina administration – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading) The draft law was adopted in the first reading at the 23rd session of the House, held on 12.01.2016. The Constitutional Commission delivered 02.02. Report on the bill's proposal. There were no amendments to the draft law. I'm opening a debate on the bill. I don't see any reports. I'm closing the debate. We're going to point five, Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Governance Act – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10808	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I would just like to express my satisfaction that the Council of Ministers has responded to my proposal for a conclusion addressed at last session of this House, and has submitted amendments within the prescribed time limit to which, unlike their original text, it makes it impossible to hire advisers by members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. I was surprised these days how much my colleagues raced to say that this was a good solution, since I was the only one to point out that problem when we discussed the text of the Law in the first reading. However, what particularly bothers me is the fact that some have justified it by a potential mistake. Look, that mistake could have cost a few million. Now I don't know if it's worse if someone, if the Justice Department makes a mistake of this kind that potentially costs citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina a few million marks, or if it's worse if they really want to give BiH MPs the right to consult. Whatever it is, here I hope they didn't purposely allow 42 MPs and another 15 delegates, etc., the right to counselors and cabinet chiefs, to add, but if it's a mistake, I'm a little tired of pointing out mistakes. Mr. Emrić and Mr. 43 Špirić will remember when I pointed out, yes, there was a nuclear waste dump from the Republic of Croatia in the Drvar Municipality, and in fact it was to be written by the Court. Then Mr. Salko Sokolović thus pointed to a mistake, on which I congratulate, on the matter, the regression was so, it was again the right to regress that was abolished by persons with a coefficient of more than 4. So there's a little too much of it. Anyway, here I appeal to all of us to read carefully the things that come from the Ministry of Justice, to be like this, and others, of course, if they make mistakes, that these mistakes are not repeated, if they are really a mistake. But I finally support that amendment. I am very glad that he came as a result of my conclusion, and I am very glad that this will result in MPs and delegates, except, of course, the members of the College who need, that the other MPs and delegates will not receive advisors and chiefs' cabinets and, therefore, there will be no additional cost of several million marks, which would cause, is that, with all the salaries, contributions, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10809	Thank you. Representative Predrag Kožul, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10810	Good afternoon, everyone. Well, I reported that very briefly, here's a warning maybe a few things and at this stage of this law, because I think I can make it right. For example, in Article 7 of the amendment and the addition of the Law, the last paragraph has problems with falls. These fallout problems make that item inapplicable, in fact very vague. I do not think there is a need for amendment action, i.e. there was no need if the Ministry and the Council of Ministers made an effort in lecturing intervention, that part could be corrected and made redundant by that last paragraph of Article 7. On one thing, I was in doubt whether in time to react with the amendment, I didn't respond, even if I'm going to warn you about it here. It is good that this Law has resolved some of the ambiguities that occurred at the end of the term of office, in the extension of the technical mandate, etc. True, one vagueness, I think, has not solved which is often evident. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law says that specific conditions for the appointment of the Head and Deputy Manager will be laid down by the Council of Ministers, etc., etc. I think it should have been written for V.D., for all these functions, even if in the preceding article the last sentence can be interpreted precisely in a way that is defined for v.d.. Director, v.d. Deputy Director, etc. But we know in practice that this determined hole in the law in the appointment V.D. Director, v.d. Deputy Director, it seems to us that the procedure itself is more operational, and it seems to me that these amendments and additions to the law are also a limited misunderstanding around v.d. The director who might have gotten rid of her. It's not settled within the law and we're left with the same small space for, let's say, more operational action. There's so much, pure about this law. I hope that this, I say, grammatical finess in Article 7 will be corrected so that, here's the law that improved the existing law, it really gets even better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10811	Thank you very much. Hazim Rančić, the debate. Here you go. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10812	Thank you very much, esteemed chairman. Here, and last time I discussed this Law, and here I want to say a few words now, and that is to support amendments made by the Council of Ministers to the conclusion of the House of Representatives, and not only in the section that may have left doubt whether all MPs and deputies and delegates should or should not have any advisers. Of course they don't, those positions only have people in the management of both homes and I figured it out last time. However, I am so pleased that the adoption of a Regulation on the systematization of the functions of the Authority of Administration and of administrative organisations, whether they are within the body of the Administration or are independent, thus consenting to such regulations, and there is a key to increasing the administration, the Council of Ministers gives. Neither the minister nor anyone else can do that, because there is a key point in potentially increasing the administration and the officials and the tenants. So, I support that, we said last time, that we don't have advisors, but I only want a well-intentioned two sentences on Article 7 of the amendment and the addition of the basic text of the Law, and here is Amendment II of the Council of Ministers, as regards Article 58. So, if we just step away from looking at the last position of Article 58 of the basic text of the Law or of Article 7. The Law on Amendments and Supplements, that is, Amendment II, so we look at the whole, we see that this Article 7 neither prescribed nor predicted that we as MPs, delegates, have advisers. When you look closely at only the last position you could indirectly draw conclusions, but we knew that, this member prescribes what certain persons do, starts from the secretary down to the counselor. So, it's undeniable, the MPs don't need to have advisers, but even if it was left like this without amendments, we wouldn't be able to have advisers, because a certain act of systematization provides for the possibility of someone going in that direction. I am saying this because, after our discussion and discussion in the previous reading, so most of the media and the public reacted negatively, thinking that we want to provide ourselves with advisers in the workings of the Parliamentary Assembly. We do not want it and it is good that we have discussed it, and it is good that the Council of Ministers of this amendment has submitted it, and that it is known that these advisers only have the leadership of the two Houses, and there is no need to have other MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10813	Thank you. Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10814	Thank you. I think Mr. Rančić will agree with me that this would allow the legal inauguration of advisers to every member of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, and then it is much easier to adopt the Systemisation Regulation when you already have an explicit legal provision that allows you to do so. So, what was my job, and all of us, and I thank you, I think it was a unique support to my conclusion, which is that the Council of Ministers is asked to submit amendments to this Law. And I am extremely pleased that they reacted in this way, that they provided an amendment concerning the removal of this disputed, controversial option. And by doing so, you will agree with Mr. Rančić, right, to disable it completely, or we will disable it completely, when we adopt this amendment today, and the House of Nations after us, completely prevent it from being verified by the systemization regulation, right? So it's still the law that makes something possible then the systemization rule only implements it in practice. Thank you. 45
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10815	Hazim Rančić, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10816	Simply, here is the frequent use of correcting a false quote or a business intervention in order to bring about a word. I'm not doing it this time, I'm only reacting to the fact that the esteemed colleague Arnaut used this business provision to claim, wanting to correct some of my wrong allegations, and then in his discussion he didn't say anything about what I said wrong. So he didn't correct the wrong assumption. And as far as I understand it, and his discussion of the original, and the correction of the false assumption, and what he was saying explicitly, we actually agree. The law did not prescribe that possibility, yes, at a small door could have happened,... leaving the possibility of passing an act that introduces these places into the systemization and we all agree that we don't need it, we don't need it, and it's good that this is how we solved this thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10817	Thank you. I don't see any reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. We're going to point six, Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law amending Bosnia and Herzegovina's Penal Code – Proposer: Representatives from SNSD and SDS clubs, with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission The draft law was submitted in procedure 17.12.2015. On 24.12.2015, the legislative and legal sector submitted its opinion on the consistency of the draft law as set out in Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the Uniform Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which has been established that it is not fully in line with Article 105. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. For this reason, the College of the House decided to ask the applicant to correct the observed shortcomings in the Bill proposal. At the request of the Constitutional Legal Commission, the draft law was removed from the agenda of the 23rd session of the House, as the applicants did not provide a correction of the observed shortcomings. Proposers, SNSD and SDS representatives submitted an amendment to the draft law amending the Penal Code of BiH on 11 January 2016. The Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion on 02.02.2016. The commission did not agree with the draft law with the Constitution of BiH and the legal system of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and did not support the principles of the bill. I'm opening a debate. Dušanka Majkić, MP. Here you go. It's a debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10819	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. 46 So, we have before us a proposal for the law of SNSD and SDS, which, as you can see, proposes to delete Article 239. The BiH Penal Code. I have to admit, I was really embarrassed to see the Commission's opinion. Knowing the composition of this Commission, I could not believe that with four votes against and one abstention, constitutional principles were not established, or in line with the Constitution and the Bosnia and Herzegovina legal system. It's a thing that's really hard for a man to understand if he doesn't follow that the BiH Criminal Law was imposed by the High Representative in 2003 and that as such he can be treated unconstitutional, but... we are working on him... changing. And now to amend one of his members or intervene on one member and declare the unconstitutional really seems unreasonable. We can talk about things like principles, but that... The law lacks a constitutional basis that doesn't make any sense. I really can't figure out what happened on the Constitutional Commission. So, what is the essence of this law? To propose that this member of the 239th request that an official in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina... the institutions of others, who refuse to execute the final executive decision of the Constitutional Court, the Court of BiH, the Human Rights House and the European Court of Human Rights, be sanctioned by a sentence of 6 months to 5 years. There are few countries that have been dealt with in this way with criminal sanctions in Criminal Law. It's especially interesting when a country that has a fully dysfunctional legal system still has a lot of work to do. And putting something like that in Criminal Law is absurd. It is particularly absurd of those who do not accept the amendment of this Law because the largest number of outstanding decisions of the Constitutional Court is located among those who are now most pronouncing that this should not be accepted. Why? Because they are probably in a better position than the MPs who come from Republika Srpska, who think that they will always be able to act in the Constitutional Court because there are two former members of the SDA and three foreigners, they will always be able to make a decision against each other. There's no argument that could rock that. We remember, many of us remember these Constitutional Court judges sitting here in these benches with us together. So the second reason that the question could be raised as a principle is that it is impossible to determine the individual guilt and the responsible person. I well remember working in the Commission for the Implementation of the Sedic-Finci judgment, and I remember when I went to the D.A. to answer for the fact that the decision was not implemented, and the Commission was composed of 13 members. It's unusual that I went to make a statement about why the Commission didn't make a decision. Well, isn't that tenorous, and it can be understood correctly, there was another colleague, but he went to a little chat, as I later heard. They're not the same criteria. And when the criteria aren't the same, you'll find it hard to convince yourself that it's not a bad intention for one to be in a better position than the other. So, I don't think any of these principles I've stated can be challenged. It could be, and this opinion should be challenged by the Constitutional Commission, especially when it is said in the end that members of the Commission who voted against can present their arguments at the House's session during the debate on this Bill proposal. It was correct to write that opinion, because this remains for someone,
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10820	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10821	This stays for a while when we'll be able to remember how we talked and on what topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10822	Correction of the wrong quote, Zaim Backović. Here you go. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10823	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Just let me ask you first – did we unite the agenda points by this and the next point, that's one? And secondly, just for the relevance of this House where we sit, it should be said that the basis of criminal law is in states that possess the constitution, such as France, Germany, Italy, Španija, whatever the constitutional monarchy it has, I speak of Španija, the only one who has no constitution is Great Britain, the country in our environment, the violation of the Constitution, non-compliance with decisions of the Constitutional Court is the most difficult form of crime. It is thus defined by their criminal laws. It is said here that this is not treated and not treated by criminal law by any state. That's just not true.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10824	Thank you very much. Since the honourable representative went with the proposal, in fact with the question whether or not we have united the debate on points 6 and 7, we have not united it, but here is the position of the College, given your point of view, we agree to unite the debate and here is...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10825	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10826	They don't agree, do they? Great, then nothing. We're staying at point 6. So it's at point 6. We only thought, because many were, it's okay mostly, let's go point 6. There's no open debate on point 7, we're going under point 6. Here you are, Sadik Ahmetović, a correction to the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10827	I have to correct Mrs. Majkić when she talks about MPs from Republika Srpska, and that they all think as she said in her presentation. I must point out that I am an MP who was elected from the Republika Srpska Election Unit and I don't think so. And probably because you represent yourself like that and you make laws because you don't see others and then you have to intervene with the Constitutional Court, and then you need to delete from the law that such decisions should not be respected. And to make the problem even bigger, you say that they don't have any other countries in Europe or the environment. And, please, name me any country or environment or in the world that one part of the country does not respect the Constitutional Court's decisions. If there's any country, I'll change my mind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10828	Thank you. Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10829	I thank the Honorable Chairman. 48 Here, I will give my colleague Ahmetović an answer. The BiH Constitutional Court, following Mr Bilbija's appeal, made the decision that Bosnia and Herzegovina missed the opportunity to provide an effective remedy against the high representative's decisions in the case of applicants as required by Article 13. European Conventions on Human Rights. It's about high-level representatives' shifts. And you know what happened, dear colleague Ahmetović, then? Then High Representative Kristijan Švarc Šiling issued a warrant prohibiting the implementation of this Decision and ordering the continuation of human rights violations. You can see that there are countries where we don't respect the Constitutional Court's decisions, and that doesn't allow us to do that on the outside, not us. And that's why in this next law we're proposing the departure of foreign judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10830	Thank you very much. Dušanka Majkić, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10831	I was talking about that there is no premeditated way of sanctioning someone to go to jail, and especially when it comes to being a collective body, and then the D.A. sends them here in writing and says, "Let's see who's to blame for not odluka the Sejdic-Sejdić-Finac decision." It is therefore impossible to find when it comes to the collective body, and the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly, who is to blame for the Constitutional Court's decision not being implemented. And to remind counterpart Ahmetović, the Federation has a greater number of outstanding decisions of the Constitutional Court than of Republika Srpska. So it's easy to check. We don't have to kill each other here. It is not the Republika Srpska that does not execute, on the contrary. There's one decision we're not going to make.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10832	Sadik Ahmetović, a correction to the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10833	I don't know why you're calling me a Federation, I'm not a Federation lawyer, I have no reason, I don't have a need and, uh, and really if it helps, here's the call for the first applications to be against those of the Federation who don't respect those decisions. So, I don't have a problem with that, but you have a problem. And you until that problem in your head clears up for me here in Bosnia and Herzegovina we have a problem. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10834	Stubbing basketball, correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10835	Thank you, Chairman. I am taking the opportunity to welcome the College, colleagues and colleagues and representatives of the Council of Ministers and others present. This is not a matter of perception of what anyone is experiencing, whether someone comes from the Federation or someone comes from Republika Srpska. It is fully visible here what OHR is doing and what new model it is applying, excuse me, Constitutional Court. It is quite evident that the Constitutional Court has the ambition to make some decisions through its action that are not in the interest of all of us in this country, in a way that does 49 very often by revote, by interventionism of the international community... foreigners in that court, and then of course we have consequences if such decisions cannot be applied. Why should certain decisions be applied if those decisions are not in the interest of those living in this country? Why should such decisions be fully adapted to the legal system if we have a situation that has been made by decisions of foreign judges? It is clear that there are certain political elites who want me international interventionism, or the presence of me as an international factor here. And we won't impose our opinions on anyone in that regard, but I don't think it's good for this country to have that kind of approach. We haven't heard that attitude in some past period when the High Representative acted the way he acted in the Bilbi case. Foreigners are being called today, and we want to verify here in this institution what foreigners are doing to harm, I say, in this case, a part of Bosnia and Herzegovina. What's the problem? We should be cut off from our hands and ask for any form of repression against official views, in this case the institutions of Republika Srpska, and that the decision is made by the parties and that criminal responsibility exists. That's why these changes to the Criminal Code are what they are and that's why the position of parties based in Republika Srpska is the way it is. You can refuse, it was completely visible and clear that certain Federation parties were immediately at the beginning, and when the draft laws did not come here on the agenda, they said their position. But it is a confirmation that there are still political entities in this country who choose foreigners and others for partners to solve some problems in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10836	Debate, Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10837	Dear colleagues and colleagues, members of the College. I really have no intention of talking about the law, because by my signature I have told everything I think about this and about the next law so much, but I will talk about the report of the Constitutional Commission, which I would also understand that no lawyer was sitting there. Then I would understand this report as a result of a lack of understanding of the members of the Constitutional Commission in law. meċutim, the Constitutional Legal Commission mostly has lawyers, except for a few of us who aren't. And then those lawyers say that the law that applies has no constitutional basis, because if it had a constitutional basis, it would also have its changes constitutional basis. Since its amendments do not have a constitutional basis, or are voted to have no constitutional basis, it practically means that the law that is in force today is unconstitutional, there is no constitutional basis, and the question is what is happening now with all the judgments that have been passed so far under this Law. I could do it so that, unfairly, I could conclude it, because if the lawyers can find an unfair conclusion, why can't I as an economist have an unfair conclusion. It's even given me the right to unfairly conclude. I have said and qualified this body, and unfortunately that is so, the Constitutional Commission as a political body. And I'm sorry that this is so, and I'm sorry that the future vote is likely to have a political character, not a legal character. It's not disputed that people don't support this law, it's undeniable to me, it's the right thing to do. But it's controversial not to vote for constitutional law, to amend and supplement some law. That's controversial. I guess that's what colleagues should admit that it's controversial and say – okay, we could vote for constitutional law, then reject the principles of the law, we'd have the same result, we wouldn't have today, we'd have a negative report, but we'd have to keep our mouths shut, or I'd at least keep my mouth shut about it. Because as Volter said, I don't agree with any word of what you said, but I will defend your right to say it to death, so would I, disagreeing with you, respect your decision. This is how you gave me the right not to respect her and to doubt those decisions in the future, which may even be legal. 50 Behold, that is why I have come to say and to call this House to refuse this negative report, to return the law to the Constitutional Commission, which there, I suppose, then, on the Commission, will experience one change of attitudes, because I guess colleagues in the meantime will realize that this Law can be rejected in another way than the one in which it was rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10838	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10839	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Mr. Novaković is correcting the wrong allegations. Maybe it's because you're not a lawyer you didn't understand. Here, now I'm going to try to explain everything to you what this is all about. It is not that the whole Criminal Law, as you try to impute, has no constitutional basis, of course there is, the Criminal Law of BiH has constitutional basis, but the Law on Amendments to the Law, the Criminal Law of BiH that you have proposed. That one doesn't have a constitutional basis. And why is that? Because the only thing you suggested was to delete one member of that law. That erasure doesn't have a constitutional basis. It cannot be amended to put amendments on it now, so that we can correct the lack of that constitutionality. And the reason why this erasure is unconstitutional, and because of this, what you have proposed has no constitutional basis, lies in the fact that the BiH Constitution itself says that decisions of the Constitutional Court are final and, the key word, binding. And if the BiH Constitution tells you that something is binding, then it is necessary... Criminal law imposes sanctions in order to give effect to that word – binding. Therefore, when you propose an amendment that does everything it does, it deletes something that is by the Constitution, or what the Constitution requires, then your amendments and additions, or amendments to the Criminal Law of BiH, cease to have a constitutional basis. So if you had suggested something else here that could have been changed, I would have said first, here's a constitutional basis, so I'd try to fix the amendments to those parts that don't have. But there was only one change here. And there can't be, you know, very well, an amendment. Now, as far as your remarks are concerned, we acted politically rather than legally. I wish we were. If we had acted politically, we would have given you a constitutional basis and principles yesterday, so today we would have knocked down this Law in the first reading and the tape would have stopped. What really bothers me is that right now, because of the entity vote, this is going to go back to the Constitutional Commission, and we're going to think about it one more time, and then we're going to come back to the House next time, and we're going to refuse again, so we're going to go back to the Constitutional Commission, and I think the goal of what they're proposing is to stick to this tape for three months. And for three months, we won't focus on economic issues. Well, if we had, at least politically, we would have let you have both the constitutional basis and the principles yesterday and today ended this story, but we acted legally, because objectively there is no constitutional basis. Well, I hope you understand this legal clarification, and I'm staying at your disposal later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10840	Correction of the wrong allegation, željko Komšić. Here you go. 51 g
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10841	I thank the chairman. Mr. Novaković, I'm actually going to continue on to what Mr. Arnaut was trying to explain, so there's no confusion. Therefore, if there is a law adopted under the Constitution, it is not automatically understood that any proposed amendment of that law is constitutional, or that it has a constitutional basis, it does not have to have, it is logic. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Please, uh, so it doesn't mean if there's a law, I repeat, that everything proposed in some future time, as well as its amendment, has a constitutional basis. So that argument doesn't stand. And I see that this is often used in discussion and on the Constitutional Commission, here in this House, as there is a law, so everything we want to change in this law must be automatically based on the Constitution. It's not true, because change must have a basis in its constitution. And Mr Arnaut, in my opinion, well explained why what you have suggested has no foothold in the current BiH Constitution. With all due respect to your right to think so, but when we talk about legal logic it's legal logic and it's legal logic, the logic of the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10843	Momčilo Novaković, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10844	Well, the fact that the replica was reported by three lawyers from the Constitutional Legal Commission said I was a good stab when I discussed it. I was talking about a concrete law, so I wasn't talking about laws and amendments to laws at all, I was talking about a concrete law. And this is exactly how she convinced me, convinced fellow Arnaut and stated which member of the Constitution was injured by saying that one member of the Penal Code was deleted. The fact that the law, which is decisions of the Constitutional Court, is bindingly undeniable, and after this member has been adopted, would remain that the decisions of the Constitutional Court are binding. That leaves no one free of the obligation to respect the Constitutional Court's decisions. This is about those who don't respect the Constitutional Court's decisions whether they should go to jail or not. But I guess what I said was economic, and this was legal. Well, let's keep it, so it's too expensive economically, if we refuse this law, it's going to cost a lot.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10845	Šefik Džaferović, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10846	The Honorable Chairman. I didn't mean to talk about these agenda points at all today. I have already expressed my position several times, but let me say just a few sentences, of course, because of the various attempts to improvise and interpret the opinions of certain members of the constitutional committees, from those who voted contrary to them, of course by replicating to a gentleman, respected colleague Momčilo Novaković. 52 According to Article 44 (1) point (c) of the Rules of Procedure of the Constitutional House, the Constitutional Commission is considering the draft laws that the House should adopt regarding their compliance with the Constitution of BiH and the legal system. So, I repeat, about their compliance with the BiH Constitution and the BiH legal system and going, so the text goes on. So, the Constitution and the legal system. According to the provisions of Rule 108 of the same Rules of Procedure, which bear the title – Consensus of the draft law with the Constitution of BiH, following the examination, it is therefore prescribed that, after considering the harmonisation of the draft law with the Constitution of BiH and the legal system of BiH, the Constitutional Commission delivers an opinion to the chairman of the House, etc. And now I want to say this. First, many times it has happened that representatives of Republika Srpska's entities are voting on constitutional basis against constitutional grounds, although there are no arguments for it. I've never talked about it, there's a lot of examples of those where it's obvious. But here we go, I don't want to act that way. This Law, when it comes to compliance with the Constitution of BiH, has a constitutional basis, but this Law is not in line with the Bosnia and Herzegovina legal system for reasons that, among other things, Mr Arnaut spoke of. The Constitutional Commission therefore assesses compliance with the Constitution and with the legal system. If the Constitution prescribes that decisions of the Constitutional Court are final and binding and requires a mechanism for them to be implemented, the abolition of these mechanisms is contrary to the Bosnia and Herzegovina legal system and the definition of the Bosnia and Herzegovina legal system. It is not the way for Bosnia and Herzegovina to do away with existing mechanisms that improve the implementation of constitutional court decisions, but because of the unimplementation of a large number of tasks to design new mechanisms to increase the number of decisions implemented. That's why I voted against constitutional basis and consistency with the legal system, because it's listed as one, but there are therefore two segments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10847	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Nikola Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10848	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members, distinguished guests. Well, I'm sorry there was no understanding, but I think the course of the debate is saying that we are a deeply divided society, a deeply divided country, not only in the segment of justice, but also in other segments. I expected that all the debates we're having will not be... that they will be fought to meet each other, not to go away from each other. This point 6 in my view was logical to go beyond point 7, so the proposal was to reach the Constitutional Court Act which would be the product of an internal agreement in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is not a compliment between Bosnia and Herzegovina that over 20 years since the Dayton Peace Agreement, there are judges of foreigners who decide in the Constitutional Court. The decisions of the Constitutional Court through foreigners were complemented by the majority position, it is irrelevant whether at one point they dispute the interest of one, the other or the third constituent people, but the problem is what we do to have the Constitutional Court Act, which is the product of discussion in this Parliamentary Assembly, 20 years after Dejton. If there is any thinking of all on the line that 20 years after Dayton, or more, Bosnia and Herzegovina should reach the Constitutional Court in which its constitutional judges will make decisions in the interest of all in Bosnia and Herzegovina, sometimes by consensus, the best..., sometimes by revote, I see nothing controversial. But if in a moment of political tension you have decisions that, most of them made by 53 foreigners, it fuels or undermines mistrust within Bosnia and Herzegovina. The OHR has made it clear – you have extended, you are wondering and you are welcome gentlemen. So, the position of me international judges is the position of older brother no matter who in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and not to bid. If there is an agreement to reach the Constitutional Court Act... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I'm saying if it was luck, the krivični would be behind this. So, if... the amendments, if there's an agreement that we have the Constitutional Court Act in which we're prepared, then we have domestic judges who will make decisions, whatever they make, it's logical that we respect those decisions. So, we have to wipe out what caused the mistrust, it won't hold back from us, not from Brussels, not from Vašington. I have a feeling that this deal is gone, and that's why this law of amendment and supplementation, so the Criminal Law followed that attitude. I think we should leave this, this idea alive to talk because it's Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's not about...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10850	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10851	only the Serbian people, neither Croatian nor Bosniak, are we all together. If there isn't, I think we're going into deeper divisions and cementing attitudes. Not good, I would be in the place of any constitutional people if the Srbin were to support only foreigners and would not support Hrvat and Bošnjak, I would not be happy with such decisions of the Constitutional Court. Let's open a dialogue in this country, __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] So I'm about to open a dialogue, I'm not for any decisions that can provoke anyone. But I'm talking about the Constitutional Court now, whether there's a readiness or not. If it doesn't make sense, we'll go further into cementing attitudes. And that's why I think the Constitutional Court Act should have been the first, to leave him alive as an idea, to talk, not to fall a spoon in honey if we finish it in 20 days, a month, and if we reach an agreement on the Constitutional Court Act...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10853	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10854	If they do, I am convinced that the amendments and additions of this Act will not be necessary. Because if the Constitutional Court decisions make you protect yourself through the Criminal Law, that's what it says about the country we're in. It doesn't matter sometimes they'll... The Bosniaks, sometimes the Hrvat. Is there a readiness in this House or not? I see it doesn't exist, we're formally dealing with voting in committees, etc. That is not the essence of Parliament's work. So, I'm asking you to keep the idea alive to talk about what's 54 problems. Here, let's say, the problem right now at this point of one entity and one nation, in another might be another or another entity, but let's talk people out, this is a serious question, it's too serious a question...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10855	Please, counselor, don't let us go and deny the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10856	I'm sorry, I don't need to, but it's too serious a question that we'd formally come to him today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10857	predsjedavajući Krišto, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10858	Here's a business, uh, review I'll refer to Mr. Momčilo Novaković's position, in which he said so and spoke about the constitutional basis of this law, legal, unfair, etc. Since fellow Members of the Constitutional Commission have also appeared and I am one of the members of the Constitutional Commission, the truth was not present on this, and each of us has its own position. I listened and now my colleagues tried to explain at this session, so we see where that attitude brings us. We can only accept one reality that we are political people here and see that we are exclusively expressing our political views. When it comes to the constitutional foundation of this Law, we are talking about constitutional ground when we talk about whether the Parliamentary Assembly and its jurisdiction can pass laws. And when it comes to criminal law, we know that we have a constitutional basis to regulate it. As for the specific provision that someone referred to, the Constitution did not say anywhere that it should be sanctioned or not needed. If so, I think that at least we who are invited are whether the amendment of this Law would eventually be constitutional or unconstitutional. So as far as that aspect is concerned, we can talk about these things. And as far as concrete sanctioning is concerned, that's what I've talked about before, so this provision as defined in this Act is totally inconclusive. When you see that responsibility for decisions, for implementing decisions of the Constitutional Court, has a Parliamentary Assembly, tell me which way, respecting all this which your colleagues and colleagues have talked about, to force or sanction someone to not execute a decision, and that is called Bosnia and Herzegovina, that is, the Constitution and the system of Bosnia and Herzegovina, better say the non-system, and also in terms of regulation, in terms of the Constitution, in terms of the Constitutional Court, and this, I would say, the Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you very much. Hazim Rančić, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10859	Thank you very much. I support the views of colleagues and Komšić and colleagues of Arnaut, because they think in the way I spoke in the Club, therefore the law of criminality, which is valid, has a constitutional basis, but the Law on Amendments and Supplements is considered to be contrary to an explicit with Article 6(4), which reads – 55 Constitutional Court decisions are final and binding. So the Constitution protected the decisions as a social value. This is also the principle of criminal law, which is why a criminal offence is prescribed, because if you do not have a crime or a misdemeanor, the character of the entity of a criminal offence, is known to fellow lawyers, if you do not have sanctions, competent authorities, two degrees such as in the CAP, then this word – binding is in the rank of... Each individual, and especially here, concerns official persons, institutions, could crawl the language of every court and say yes, it says in the Constitution that it is binding, but I will not spend it and what you can do to me. Nothing. Why? Because the nature of a criminal offence is not prescribed, because it is not sanctioned by law and by a competent two-degree body that eventually determines someone's responsibility for non-provoking binding court decisions. And I apologize to my fellow Špirić for interrupting him, it's not okay, it's not according to the Rules of Procedure, I apologize, I apologize to everyone, but here I am using the opportunity to ask my respected colleague Špirić that everything he proposes here, I respect it, but please get up to see it somewhere on the media, get up and give such a lesson and such suggestions either in SNSD, or Prime Minister Cvijanović, or the Government of RS and tell her – please do not make decisions in the RS that do not support both Bošnjak and Hrvat and others. Why? Well, it's not nice, it doesn't get us in a good way. When you, dear professor, discuss it that way, I will trust you more, and I am for what you suggest, for dialogues and for compromises, but we should always start by ourselves. And there, there, son, was the Law of Internal Affairs, and the free Council, this or that, and not in union, and the amendments, this shall come into force, and it shall come into force. How many times have you voted over? A lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10860	Thank you very much for your esteemed representative. And at this point, I'm giving a break by 2:30 and I hope you'll agree to these corrections to the wrong quote in that break. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10861	Can we continue with the session? Please take your seats. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] So what do I do, they're gone, maybe they're boycotting people. _________(?) [[Common discussion]] [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10864	Here's the quorum in, 22, let's go. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10865	We're going back to work. The next replica, MP Milica Marković, is correcting the wrong quote. I'm asking for peace in the O.R.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10866	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As far as I'm concerned, of all those present at this time, it is most important that Mr. Rančić is here, to whom my replica refers, to what he said in his last statement, therefore that amendments to the Criminal Law should first and foremost apply to those who do not respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court of Republika Srpska and that he said that this item, this article, which is now in Criminal Law, is in fact a declarative nature. I can agree with him in that part that it is indeed declarative, that member who now exists in the Criminal Law on sanctioning the non-compliance of the Constitutional Court decisions, because the fact itself, if you take all decisions of the Constitutional Court which have not been implemented, have not been implemented, and 91 or 92, you will see that out of these 90 and some decisions 80% refers to the Federation, to the cantons in the Federation of BiH, which they did not, have not applied. That's the first thing. So, it is not the institutions of Republika Srpska and which do not mostly implement, although you must know, we want to tell you today, that this final decision of the Constitutional Court on the dispute of the Republic Day will never be applied and will never be implemented. So you can invent and add any other members and sanctions to the Criminal Law, of course you won't be able to do it without us from Republika Srpska, but that decision will never be implemented. That's the first thing. The second thing, today it is decided here, to say, to minimize the importance of these two proposed laws, even though they are proposed in two large clubs in this House, SNSD and SDS, and that some MPs have even allowed themselves, say Mr Arnaut who said that this tape is breaking up and that we are not going back to the Commission, in style like don't even talk about it, let's get over it and get it over with once. You will Dobićete it again, Mr. Arnaut, in your Constitutional Commission, and I cannot believe that someone with such misbehavior is talking about a law relating to a Constitutional Court whose activity is not framed by a legal solution. Here in this Parlamament, it is required that unauthorized events happen at sports events by fans be regulated by legal solutions. And the work of the Constitutional Court, which is not even framed by a legal solution at all, here someone says it's a tape, let them get over it. It is clear to us that you in this House don't want the Law on the Court of BiH, you don't want the Law on the Prosecutor's Office, you don't want the Law on the Constitutional Court of BiH now either. You can do all that you will not, but you will receive a referendum in Republika Srpska, which will begin as a referendum on the BiH Constitutional Court, and we hope that the most important and most important referendum, of the utmost importance for Republika Srpska, will not be long before we all experience it and see it.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10867	Deputy Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10868	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. gospoċo Marković, please spare us any threats. No one can threaten anyone in this country. And that referendum you speak of and which you announce will not be the end of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It will be the end of Bosnia and Herzegovina's internal structure, and Bosnia and Herzegovina and 57 will survive, because it was before that structure and it will be later, and between the rest and your wisdom depends on how long we will have the Dayton clock of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So I call upon you to respect the regulations we have and not to raise tensions and not to threaten each other without need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10869	Ambassador Denis Bećirović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10870	I will answer for the discussion and for a long time now, here is my colleague Backović, Bosić and I have been reported but given the individual discussions, I want to say and repeat what I said today at the very beginning of the agenda, the best option was that these two points of the agenda were downloaded, because their epilogue today at the end of the vote is going to be the result of an equal zero, except that we will have statements of frustration, accusations, arguments, etc. We need to discuss all things with arguments, dialogue, but never, as I said in the agenda, blackmails and ultimatums. Especially not ultimatums towards state authorities and the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. For those who may not know it well, let them know that the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina did not accept the ultimatums, the sultans, the emperors, the kings, and at least the president of one of the bh entities.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10871	Replica, Hazim Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10872	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Dear colleague Maraković has either not heard or deliberately spoken some of my words. I didn't say the way she interpreted it. I have no intention of repeating it, there's a transcript there, so if a colleague is interested, she'll read it. That's one. Two, I'm not bidding where there's more and where there's fewer unimplemented judgments, I'm talking about the principle. This is a prescribed crime and applies to all of us in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And otherwise, judgments, if they are not binding and if there are no sanctions for their non-compliance, we wouldn't actually have a state, no justice, no justice, no justice, no rule of law, no democracy. Simply, we would not exist without the obligation to enforce court decisions, not only of the courts mentioned in Article 239, but of all the courts in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we would not actually have a third pillar of power and would not have a state or legal system. And finally, the simplest thing is that a lot of these things are understood either by lawyers or politicians, by a simple dictionary for every citizen – colleagues and colleagues have passed the Law amending and supplementing the law which will erase a criminal act that prevents one who does not carry out decisions, among other constitutional courts, from committing a criminal act. So they want to create an assumption that they can do this with what their colleague is threatening to do now -- we won't, we won't, we won't. In the subconscious, they may only fear a little or some commanders of a threatened crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10873	There was a mistake here, so MP Špirić was erased, then returned. Now it's MP Špirić's turn. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10874	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, distinguished guests. Well, I think that me and, uh, I wanted to tell my colleague, Rančić, we get it. And I'm grateful for his kind words and I want to fight back in the same way. Bosnia and Herzegovina is not the country of ideal solutions anywhere. So there are no ideal solutions. And I am for things to be fixed wherever they appear to be neural points. Today, and I am not a man who wants to talk today that foreigners are not wanted in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the international community should be present, it just shouldn't take 20 years after Dejton to be institutionally present with the possibility of making decisions on behalf of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's what it says about our immatureness, including parliamentary immatureness. That's why my invitation today was to open the debate. The Council of Ministers, you saw in response to me today, is in the programme to work on the BiH Constitutional Court Act. Maybe people come to some good solution that we'll all accept. But let's not break the gap today, to guard against the heavy words, to forward these proposals that two clubs have made to the Council of Ministers. Don't say no right now, let's pass it to the Council of Ministers, let the Council of Ministers be made manifest. Maybe he's offering people something else that can be an upgrade to this. But what I'm saying is -- in Bosnia and Herzegovina 20 years after Dejton, if you have the structure of the court and decisions that are being added today in terms of international judges, I'm not going to say a word about them, they didn't come here themselves, we accepted, etc., then the Constitutional Court, which we're establishing, will decide how to be the Constitutional Court Act, and only then can this amendment and the addition of Criminal Law go ad act. But don't call in different stories, tensions, etc. Let's leave this alive as an idea, because objectively, people, the problem exists. And I think if there's a readiness today, that these proposals should be forwarded to the Council of Ministers, we won't lose anything in 15 days, that people will say what they think. And he'll come to Parliament again. I disagree, we can make each point zero, but this is an objective problem. If we're not aware of it here today, that's why I told my colleague Rančić, I'll work where he thinks there are problems. And it's not, if from one entity to another, let it be the Federation, by consensus, something to irritate people, the logic is the other side to say, let people sit down and talk. And we won't even talk. This is what bothers me, and we are talking about Bosnia and Herzegovina's path to the EU. And so here's what I'd like to propose - let's keep this as an idea. Let it be Parliament's conclusion that these laws are being passed to the Council of Ministers, let's hear what they think, because the easiest idea is to choke right away. I see there's disagreements in my club too, but I'm talking, so what I think makes sense is that this is what we're talking about. We won't get to the law unless we deny everything. So here's my suggestion, to save the idea, to talk about it, so maybe in a month we'll get to a good, people, solution. If we refuse, we'll step away, and what may be
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10875	Mr. Špirić, time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10876	It will unfortunately be stopped. Here, if I helped, I'm glad, if I'm not sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10877	Turns out Mr. Zaim Backović is now up to correct both the wrong quote and the discussion. What are you for? 59 ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10878	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10879	It means both. Correction of the wrong allegation, MP Zaim Backović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10880	Replica, it's not an correction to the wrong quote, because if the correction was the wrong quote, I'd have to say based on who and what it is. We're not here to condition each other, and we're not here to threaten each other. We're here to find solutions that are possible. One of the solutions is, let's say, what Nikola is proposing. And it's really one of the solutions to this situation that we're in right now. But we must also be aware that we are not the ones who created such legislation, but that we are the ones who have to respect it. The constitution we have knows how it was passed and it is the law above all laws in this country. And since it's the law above all the laws in this country, then we could go in another way, so maybe rephrase this member of the Law that says, for violation, and then specify or supplement it. We can't stop it. And that's why there's no need to press that basically then we say no one will respect the Constitution of the state, period. Because you have no sanctions for disobeying the First Law... Britain doesn't have a constitution, but it has a First Law, so try to break it. I suggest that we accept one of the solutions from here, and that should have been accepted by the promoter, one given by Denis Bećirović, the other now gave to Nikola, because we will develop a discussion that will go on forever. Because I know what I'm going to discuss, from whoever signed the dejtonski, so who signed this, so how did it come to be the installation of the high representative who agreed, so how did it come to the Bona fide powers, who agreed, who signed it? And now we all deny what some of us in and for the sake of us. And we have to respect it until we change it. Many laws in this country need to be changed, but we must respect those who are in force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10881	Thank you. Ambassador Backović, debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10882	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ...it's a replica of someone, I'm sorry, I'll get off.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10883	I think there's a Damir Arnaut replica, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10884	I wouldn't insist on anything, but... a break that... gospoċo Marković, I don't know, I hope, I want to believe you listened to me. So, I said we were performing politically, since Mr. Novaković said that we were politically performing on the Constitutional Commission. Then I said that if we had performed politically we would have said, well, there's a constitutional basis, and here's the principles we're going to support in order to end it all today at this session. If we wanted 60 to perform politically then we would have done so, but we performed legally and objectively, when it comes to this law, there is no constitutional basis, since the Constitution of BiH, as a series of my colleagues and I before them have said very clearly. But I am now going back to what Mr. Novaković said, that if there is a law that there is a constitutional basis. So why didn't you support Mr. Novaković's constitutional basis when I proposed amendments to the BiH Election Law that would allow the completion of the Serbian People's Club in the Federation Parliament. I mean, if you really wanted to do something for the benefit of the Serbian people, which unfortunately now works in the back of the club, 14, unlike the others, 13, unlike the other clubs, which are 17, then at least you could support the constitutional basis there. There is an election law, there is whether, according to your logic, if the law exists, if the basics exist, every amendment and addition to that law has a constitutional basis. That's what you said, here's a Maltena I quote you, but you voted against the constitutional basis when I proposed amendments and amendments to the electoral law to fill the Serbian People's Club, which is, I dare say, in the direct interest of the Serbian people. So you voted against the Serb people having 17 delegates in the House of the Federation, as the Croatian and Bosniak people do. Then don't, please, hold your sermons here to others on national interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10885	Mr. Zaim Backović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10886	Thank you. Since so far so much has been said and that basically all of us through replicas and through presentations have elaborated this entirely, and that we who are here in this room have sworn to the Constitution of this state, by you sitting here at the head, and through all of us here.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10887	Swear, swear and swear.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10888	Someone swore an oath, someone swore it, you know. It's not a problem to swear.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10889	Please don't have a discussion...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10890	He didn't understand me, and I have to say and swear, then we're the ones who should fully respect constitutional regulation for what it is until it's changed or improved. The integral part of this whole conglomerate is the very complex and dysfunctional relations in this country, and the legislation that we have. So, among other things, an inappropriately undefined member is required to change. Really undefined, because he's inadmissible. Here's what I'm saying right now. The collectiveity cannot be applied, the criminal responsibility of the entire Parliament cannot be applied. It can't be applied to one entity, to one canton, to one, it can't. So redefine the member rather than delete, because it's a constitution, a violation of constitutional norms, because the Constitutional Court is the defender of the Constitution of a state and its decisions are binding, and we all agreed on it. Then not 61 we can speak apriori - I will not respect it. Whoever makes this excuse that he will not respect the Constitution, he himself goes into the sphere of responsibility under the law. And nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10891	Thank you. The word is Mr. Mladen Bosić, the vice-president. Here you go, Mr. Bosić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10892	Thank you. Dear colleagues. We should see why we came into this situation and why we are now discussing this motion to amend the Criminal Law. First of all, it's about the credibility of the Constitutional Court. The BiH Constitutional Court has brought down its own credibility by making decisions it knows in advance that they cannot be implemented. And this is not the first decision that will not be made, and no decision before this has been made has been answered by this member, who you so kindly defend, until now. And it means that this member is inadmissible. Well, if it's inappropriate, then they should kick him out. And that was the idea. Why don't we go after these before, like the D.A. was chasing some MPs here. It wasn't the only one that went to the hearing, there were four, five, six, maybe ten in the hearing. So we have a provision in Criminal Law that we know in advance that will not be applied. It's like when they make trails through the park, so they let them see where people come out of the grass, and then make a path, so here it turns out that the provision in Criminal Law is too high. And here, that's one of the reasons why she's been proposed and why we're asking you to think about backing off something that doesn't make any sense, because it can't be implemented. This is not the first time we've been in a discussion like this, although I have to notice that on this subject we have a much lighter discussion than we had before and on a much simpler subject. So we have to, or I hope the time has come for everyone to realize that we have to change the way we treat the problems that clearly exist. Is there anyone who does not think that the Constitutional Court in BiH has a problem with its functioning, with decisions made in a political way that causes a deep political crisis? And ultimately with decisions that are not implemented and thus loses constitutional court credibility for further work. What's the way out of it? Well, let's open the conversation. So what we're proposing is opening conversations about the problem we're having. And it's not just Republika Srpska or Srbin. The political crisis that is being made in various ways is not the problem of any people, it is reflected in everything. So we're having a crisis, and that's why we need to figure out a way to solve it. If the apriors refuse every initiative on each side, we will remain in the clay and mud that we have been in for many, many years. So the first condition to do something is to open up a conversation about this. Here, I support MP Špirić who said he should try to make room to discuss the problem. The second thing, so shouldn't we open a constitutional provision after all these years, I don't know which member of the BiH Constitution, that after five years, the way judges are elected will be considered, referring to foreign judges. Isn't it, right now, 15 years have passed? Shouldn't we sit down as political factors here and talk about it, knowing that it's inevitable that at some point until the departure of foreign judges, if anyone here has a claim to be a sovereign state? Because this is not a sovereign state if it has no sovereignty to make decisions, and here 62 sovereignty decisions are largely made by foreigners. It's not just about the Constitutional Court, it's about other factors that can affect here. I ask you to take advantage of the time and try to find some, or open conversation on this issue by next session. It's a complex question, I think it's in everyone's interest to come to an agreement. I don't see that this deal would be against any interest, against any nation's interests. If the Srbin have a problem with voting in some situation, the Bošnjak will have a second time, the Hrvat for the third time. Wouldn't it be the interest of all of us to come to some mechanism that won't lead to a vote, which immediately causes a reaction in political spheres, triggers a political crisis. So I am pleased that this discussion is within reasonable frameworks, in reasonable waters and that we all try to take advantage of the readiness together, if there is, to take a step that would be a major change in relations in Bosnia and Herzegovina. This kind of discussion we've had a lot of, this kind of discussion serves certain political factors as a political provocation, like the warming of the political game we've been playing here for 20 years. By playing such a political game, we have been standing in place for 20 years. And maybe, maybe this is a chance to do something different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10893	Thank you. The word is Mr. Staša Košarc, correcting the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10894	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Be careful, we were witnessing the date when the most important political parties from Republika Srpska made two laws in the procedure. I wouldn't want to be too naive, Mr. Bosić, but there's been enough time since we've all been together from Republika Srpska, SNSD, SDS, DNS and NDP, and I'm confident enough time for the partners of the Federation of BiH to take this seriously, because this is a serious problem for all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, equally, I would not, and I would agree with you, this is a problem for both Bošnjak and Hrvat. What kind of answer did we have? At times when experts from your party, together with experts from the SNSD and other political parties, asked for a legal solution, we had the apriors to refuse to discuss these topics today in the BiH Parliament, without even getting acquainted with the elements and contents of these two laws that we have referred to. I believe that these two laws do not serve the interests of either Bosnia and Herzegovina, nor do they serve the interests of any contituous people. On the contrary, they create an ambience, if adopted in the House of Representatives in the future, an additional confidence mechanism in this country that there will be no revote, because we are witnessing what happened when it comes to different forms of voting in some former times, etc. And I think this was a quality mechanism to protect ourselves from ourselves. Obviously, there was no political readiness on the other hand or from another part of Bosnia and Herzegovina to discuss this issue the way we wanted it from Republika Srpska. I believe, Mr. Bosić, that we, who come from Republika Srpska, will soon end, should simply not allow any more of this kind of behavior and I believe, Mr. Bosić, that we should be present today in the work without deciding at all about any questions, nor the Council of Ministers, nor the House of Representatives, and I call on you to accept this initiative until this is adopted in the BiH Parliament, because this is good for all. Otherwise, I don't think we're going to achieve quality political moves in the interest of those we represent and that part of Bosnia and Herzegovina that we come from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10895	Mr. Mladen Bosić, deputy chairman, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10896	So, as far as I can tell, you have the opposite opinion of Mr. Špirić. I don't see what you're replicating me to, or what was my fault. If it bothers you to make an invitation to talk about the problem we all have together here, I might think there are people here who would like things to not be solved, or not try to solve it. I don't see what's problematic about calling to try and solve a common problem. By force, by blackmail, by imposing, as you know, we won't solve anything. Without talking, we can't get any common ground. We can block it. The question is, what after that? So here's the appeal, what I said, it's an appeal to try and open the conversation in the next few days if there's room to solve this problem, and it doesn't have to be, if there's an amendment phase in the procedure. Let's see if there's any space or no space. So blackmail policy, stubbornness, fingertips, causing crises, insulting the other side, will certainly not bring about a solution.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10897	Thank you. Denis Bećirović, a correction to the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10898	Since I'm registered for discussion, if you'll allow me to define myself as a discussion, can you do that? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] So, I'm giving up the replica and reporting for the discussion, I'm definitely up to it. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10900	Then you'll just have to sign up for a hearing. Log in, just log out of the replica to take your time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10901	So, BiH's Criminal Law, not to be any dilemma, and that today has been in certain parts of the debate, is the legal law in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is my opinion that it is the full and legal right of elected Members here in the House of Representatives, and we are all equal and 64 equal, that MPs propose amendments and amendments to the laws in Bosnia and Herzegovina and that, of course, these laws are based on the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure of this House. I absolutely approve of this legal approach here in Parliament's work. The fact that there are things that each of us don't all share, that's another thing. The mass is things in the constitutional justice system of Bosnia and Herzegovina that are not all about me or the SDP Club, but they are what they are and we must respect them. With the matter now being a criminal law, looking at the proposal to delete Article 239 from the BiH Criminal Law, and looking at the whole chapter of the XX Criminal Law, which speaks of criminal acts against justice, it is my opinion that eradicating Article 239 would not only cause damage, but would completely dissipate this part of the Criminal Law, or if you want this Chapter XX of the Criminal Law of BiH. I think it is important in this debate that we make it very clear that the BiH Constitutional Court has credibility. The BiH Constitutional Court has resolved more than 44,000 cases since its formation today, making different decisions and solutions. This is one of the few state institutions that, compared to what was delivered to her for resolution, resolved over 99.9% of the cases delivered. That should be made clear today, it is a fact to be respected, and this remaining part of the unsolved I am convinced that it must be respected. Even public information appeared about the 91st still unrespected proposal of the Constitutional Court. And that dilemma was removed, because there were many more resolved cases, and since some courts on the ground were late in response to that question. The truth, which has not been recorded so far, is that someone has openly said they will not respect the Constitutional Court Decision of BiH. It's the only newspaper. I agree with my colleague Mladen Bosić, who rightly spoke to me about the need to talk seriously about all open issues and there are no taboo topics. meċutim, the truth is that it is not Bosić's fault at all, all of us in Bosnia and Herzegovina are in a position to see what happens. We're having this debate, it's February 2016. Republika Srpska's strongest ruling party decided for 2017 to hold a referendum on breaking the Dayton Peace Agreement and the state. Does anyone expect MPs in such a situation to be naive and not realize that before that year 2017 they need to make room for such a thing, with a whole series of initiatives, illegal procedures, determined laws, etc. It's no one's fault that some have chosen to create such a climate and ambience that we can't discuss it in a calmer and better political atmosphere. But when you have the threat of jeopardizing the peace process, because a referendum on breaking Bosnia and Herzegovina is a threat to the peace process in this country, then of course everyone will read and analyze very well what is proposed, what is the meaning of this and in what time context. Of course, this law, in addition to all the criticisms we've had, has its own positive side. He reminds us once again, and the authorities in this country, that Bosnia and Herzegovina has legal and legal organs, instruments to protect the constitutional order of this country. On the question of where the way out of this situation is, when what happened today at the beginning of the agenda has not already been accepted, I think we could adopt two conclusions about these two laws. So that no one here would feel defeated and the winner I suggest we adopt two conclusions, two conclusions from the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, signed by Igor Radojičić, which literally stands, and I think it is acceptable for all – the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, quote, calls on all state and political entities, both domestic and international, to turn to economic and social reforms, and to build the future, the European path and democratic reform in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Another conclusion from the resolution, signed by Igor Radojičić, National Assembly of Republika Srpska... 65
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10902	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10903	I am invited by the international community to condemn and halt unacceptable radicalisation of international relations through rhetoric and initiatives that can objectively halt overall progress and undermine established relations and achieve a degree of confidence within Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10904	Dušanka Majkić, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10905	So we stayed at this part of the speech that Mr. Bosić suggested how, how to get out of this. You must admit that the Constitutional Court's decision on Republika Srpska Day was made on 26.11. Today on 03.02, so we have three and more, three and a half months since the decision was made, and the Law itself is in the procedure, I think, for at least two months. Now I ask – wouldn't it make sense that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure we have, we do all this? And that means today we see how, what it will look like and how it will come out, but it does not prevent the Constitutional Commission Komisijuj making a different decision, or even if before that decision, a debate like this which would be, nowhere does that Law go, it must end its path to which it is going, so that everything is going to happen, and I don't see what we could say yet and if we hadn't already said here today. I think most people and very divided, completely divided attitudes from the Federation of Republika Srpska. So where's the exit? Getting out is my personal respect for us. What could be the second option? That we no longer make any decisions from Republika Srpska, because obviously nothing we propose can go through. Yesterday, as an MP, I felt that I could no longer and had no right to ask what state the DKP network is in in Bosnia and Herzegovina? My colleague should not have voted like me because the Bošnjak would have attacked her that there was a vote like me, and she did not dare, even though she had the same initiatives in previous mandates. So where are we, what kind of land do we live? These are the things that we can open up about, which we should talk about, but we're not, we're not, we're not, because everyone's buried deep in their position, and that's why there's no way out. There's no way that foreign judges are voting over two nations, judges from two nations, no luck in that. If we care we can solve it, the solution is right in front of us, so we can end it...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10906	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10907	Where we're going. And the other thing is that in the new decision, the Constitutional Commission is changing its mind, to end these two laws. No Niko will be damaged, no one is damaged, you can find out one thing we've suggested and it's against the other two people and see if we can talk about it that way. And I don't think there's any willingness to... anything else would just be a delay. Thank you. 66
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10908	Momčilo Novaković, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10909	I give up.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10910	You gave up. We're having a debate right now, Staša Košarac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10911	Since I don't have the right to the wrong quote anymore, or at least I don't think I do, I'm using this business opportunity to say a few words. Here, the SNSD does not affirm the policy of spite, nor the blackmail policy, we showed this in the institutions of Republika Srpska and SNSD, and you, Mr. Bosić and your political party, and the NDP and other political parties that have, by the power of the arguments and talks, gathered in the policies of the talks, come to a certain kind of solution. So here's not an absolute word that someone here wants to blackmail someone. Or I can't believe that some peace process is compromised by the fact that the party's largest authorities or top authorities bring a political position on a matter. I do not know that some peace process is threatened by the political party in its political programme citing a certain kind of political stance. So don't let us invoice some elements for each other for which there is no basis. Here we insist on saying, and we affirmed the policy of talks and reconciliation along with you who are the opposition in Republika Srpska, in the institutions of Republika Srpska, and we have come to common solutions. I think we feel the same way about it, but if we go with this kind of policy level at the level of joint institutions, I don't think we're going to be in the same starting position. Here it is very important to take a good starting position and, of course, continue to develop a policy of conversation to come up with solutions offered in what SNSD and SDS and other political parties here legitimately, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure,... And a logical sequence, if we do not have a partner in the Federation political parties... again, of course, a conversation in the institutions of Republika Srpska where future steps will be further defined. But I think that's my personal position, and the attitude at the end of the people gathered in the SNSD, why would they participate in the decision-making process on any issue here until these issues are resolved, which is why, what is our starting position. Three months have been silent about our official initiative, our joint initiative towards everyone who works at the House of Representatives today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10912	Hazim Rančić, I apologize, replica, i.e. correction of the wrong quote, Mladen Bosić, deputy.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10913	So you see Mr. Košarac, so if you care for 10 days or up to 7 days then we're in a stalemate situation, here it would be worth talking to for a month, two if you have to, if there's a chance of getting to a solution, and not saying you'll either accept this or you won't. I'm trying to convince those who are against talking about this because it's in their interest. And to be clear this will, this procedure will end today, there will be a vote on this, because I don't see any other option, and by the Rules of Procedure, it goes back to the commission, and it will be on the commission again. And in that universe, there's space in that process, that's what I'm talking about. 67
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10914	Hazim Rančić, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10915	Thank you very much. In the atmosphere of the story of compromise, dialogue, reaching a solution, bringing down tension, tones, here I am going to try a few sentences. So I accept those principles whoever they are, whoever mentioned them, and I'm going to try to go to the point here's this thing. So, we have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Criminal Law, which seeks to delete Article 239 of the Criminal Code and the penalty for non-compliance with the judgments of the Constitutional Court, the Court of Human Rights, the Court of BiH, etc. Why? Because the Constitutional Court has made a decision on the holiday in Republika Srpska, that it is unconstitutional, and then some individuals are threatening, we will not do it, and in order to do it freely and say they want there is no criminal-legal responsibility. So what do I think the point is, if we want to go into essence and talk, not day, ten days, two months, etc. If we're being honest, what's the measure here, what's the issue here? The holiday, which may have been set by representatives of a nation, whether the Bošnjak participated and satisfied, and I will not speak for the Hrvat, here there are MPs, MPs, representatives of Hrvat, let them say on their behalf. If we are honest and approach the decision of this and all other controversial matters in such a way that we are satisfied without voting, compromise, long-term conversation, then there will be no appeal to the Constitutional Court and then there will be no request for amendments and additions to the Criminal Law, because that is why there is, which there is a threat, prescribed as a criminal offence and a sanctioned sanction. If we're honest, we're going to approach a common solution to controversial matters, not post-festum, looking for ways to protect ourselves so that we don't respond, because we consciously go back or do something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10916	Nikola Lovrinović, debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10917	Thank you, Madam Chairman. So, I thought at the next point I was talking, telling me this last... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] No, no, no, since, uh, I'm not gonna answer next, so don't take my time, please. So, when I saw that the fine story at the end of these three stories of some kind of cooperation, of some sort of... to solve one question, then I decided to say it at this point anyway, because I voted, therefore, with these two laws on the Constitutional Commission just on the trail of some who were saying that this story was a chance. I voted for the Constitutional Postulates of the Constitutional Court Act to give him a chance. It wasn't enough, especially after I excluded myself from this second law because I thought it was really a package, and that someone was saying, that maybe this second law or this one that's first in today's session wasn't supposed to be that we could have agreed. That's why I acted like this at the Constitutional Court, not to defend myself here in front of you and the public, but it was, you just summed up all my feelings in voting on those two laws. 68 meċutim, I wanted to tell only one short story, when we were in Belgium, there were some colleagues with me on the twing project about European integration and I asked colleagues from various parliaments in Brussels – how do you operate, so between yourself competences, how do you handle it? They say by agreement. The river – we have the Constitution, so it is of no value. They made a deal. So, I've been so comfortable with how they hear each other, they hear. So they don't listen to each other, they hear them. The Flamanac hear 650 thousand Njemac, when people say they have a problem with them, they open it up as a question and solve it. So, colleagues who are today, I will not call on anyone and I hope that I will not open a new debate, which today has been so potentiated by co-operation, understanding, I will remind you that my conclusion that I have proposed for the Croatian channel that the ministry answers me – why it does not apply the provisions of the laws that speak of broadcasting and production of programmes on the Croatian channel, for years the conclusion could not pass, the conclusion of someone who asked for his problem to expose to someone. You didn't support the conclusion, nor the law, nor anything, but to tell the gentlemen that they would implement the provisions of the existing law, I didn't get it, I didn't get it. So, come on, I supported it, and I'm going to back that, what I was saying first, to give some question a chance to solve it, that's us at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that nobody gets hurt. I didn't feel in that proposal that something was against the Croatian people, even more so there are some ideas that offer a solution for the Croatian people, of course I said there were principles some, by... not acceptable, but in the debate I guess I had a chance to say it. I'm grateful, and I hope I don't have to report in the other part.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10919	Thank you very much. I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Moving to point seven, Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law on the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Representatives from SNSD and SDS clubs, with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission The draft law was submitted in procedure 17.12.2015. On 24.12.2015, the legislative and legal sector submitted its opinion on the consistency of the draft law as set out in Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the Uniform Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which has been established that it is not fully in line with the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. For this reason, the College of the House decided to ask the applicant to correct the shortcomings observed in the Bill proposal. At the request of the Constitutional Legal Commission, the draft law was removed from the agenda of the 23rd session of the House because the applicants did not provide a correction of the observed defect. Proposers, club representatives submitted an amendment to the draft law on the Constitutional Court, the Court of BiH, on 11 January 2016. The Constitutional Commission delivered Opinion 02.02.2016. The commission did not agree with the draft law with the Constitution of BiH and the legal system, and did not support the principles of the bill. I'm opening an opinion debate. Representative Damir Arnaut, debate. Here you go. 69
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10921	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I am taking this opportunity to remind the House and all those present that the almost identical text of the law was in front of this House nearly seven years ago and the promoter was then Mr. Momčilo Novaković. And here, I now have here the text of the law that Mr. Novaković as an authorised, independent then proposer offered and he is almost identical, that text is almost identical to what is before us today. Now I'm asking a few questions. When Mr Novaković proposed an almost identical text that is before us today, he received only two votes on the Constitutional Commission, and four were against it, and the House negative opinion of the Constitutional Commission in that case was supported by 22 MPs, and they were only 4. So the SNSD was even then in favour of the Constitutional Commission's negative opinion, and now the SNSD appears together with you as a proponent of almost identical text. I mean, everything is possible in politics, but every time I'm surprised again, even though this is my first term, and I was surprised when I did all this research that Mr. Novaković in this House was so long, this one, that he had arrived twice to sign almost the same text of the law. What interests me now and I am really interested in this, and since I was myself a supporter of the suspension of fees for working in different commissions and it has passed and it is in the interest of all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, all nationalities, ethnic groups, others, etc. You've had, have you, a commission formed a huge one, I've seen on TV it was 10, 15 of you, coming out of different meetings, members of the Commission to write the text of this Constitutional Court Act. You know what turns out, in the end, that Commission, in addition to all these pictures, etc., finally copied the text from Mr. Novaković seven years ago. I mean there are three, four of some changes in technical nature, stylish, etc., but it's almost overwritten text. And now I'm most interested in everything here, because I really don't want to take part in this national story, and I want to keep an open story about these fees in committees -- did this commission take a fee, did a member of that commission get a budget fee from any level, state, entity, maybe even cantonal?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10922	All I'm asking is that we stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10923	Well, I'm interested. So, uh...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10924	The opinion is on the agenda, the opinion of the Constitutional Commission on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10925	Okay, Madam Chairman, here's what I'm going to appreciate, and I hope, unlike the previous agenda, you'll warn the others when they step down a little bit. But here, I hope I get an answer to the question – did the members of the commission take compensation for copying your tex, Mr. Novaković?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10926	Thank you. 70 Lazar Prodanović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10927	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Well, I wanted one finding, and it was inevitable that there was a debate in the previous agenda point concerning this Constitutional Court Act. I regret that the Constitutional Commission did not give a positive opinion on the constitutional basis, because absolutely under the BiH Constitution they were able to establish, this, constitutional basis. Because the Constitutional Court, therefore, is established by the Constitution of BiH, and it is said even that it will decide by majority of votes and none of the debates so far has said that this zakon in its Article 11 has made it quite clear in its position (1) – that the Constitutional Court decides by majority of votes, and in attitude (2) (a) and (b) states in which cases the majority is required to be qualified, which is quite logical. In fact, today we're trying on a porridge of experts to me politicians or politicians, I'm being tried by the experts of the Constitutional Court of BiH. You don't know, I dare say, we're not here to blame the pausers as much as we blame ourselves. So, this decision was absolutely unnecessary to anyone in Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is dominantly directed against Bošnjak in Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is absolutely against the interest of Bošnjak in Bosnia and Herzegovina as it is, it retains processes that are not making any progress and that nothing is done in Bosnia and Herzegovina, it completely disabling any statements on the Eurooptimism of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, this is the result of what we are... that even without the three parties with five votes, this decision could not have been followed, and much less needed was Bosnia and Herzegovina's procedure for assessing the constitutionality of the day, because, therefore, one entity in Bosnia and Herzegovina which is its component. So it's amazing, not being ready in that sense. And in this whole story, in these paranoid thoughts of what anyone does against whom in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we stand in a place, we're not bad, we're much better off with those who cook this, even better with those who cook it, so who cook it, including doing it by the rules. I see no problem at all why there would be no Constitutional Court Act, why the rules of an institution would be more important and more valuable than the Constitutional Court Act, is not important because it is procedurally determined to happen. And secondly, it is forgotten to say in this debate that such decisions, so established by the Constitutional Court, which would work according to the law, would be binding. What would happen now is, I'm going back to this before, if, by any chance, this top judicial institution in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which every day... of all these things, would condemn someone to five years in prison. I say he would absolutely win, he would absolutely win in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And you'd have had that for a conversation, and for the next 10 years we'd have to sit down again for a table to talk about. And I'd like to see that court ruling. Be assured that all of this would result in us and we would still be today, so we have not yet reached the level of gross national, or national income per capita of Bosnia and Herzegovina as we had in the 1990s. A year. If this isn't how it's gonna work, we're still at the bottom of the ladder and economics and any other development. In that sense, therefore, I do not see what the problem would be if the Constitutional Court included a member of the Constitutional Court, at least one member of the Constitutional Court, in matters relating to matters between state and entity, special parallel links or relations which could be, therefore, where the provision of the Constitution or the law of one entity is in accordance with the BiH Constitution. What would be the problem anyway? We are not for the destruction of Bosnia and Herzegovina or its constitutional order, but we are for discussion of what is inevitable. We're not going to say that the judges of the Constitutional Court, all of them, and in the way they're elected, we're saying that they're completely independent of personality, if we're going to say that when we can, I don't know, who we can tell who wasn't in part of the political story. These judges are elected by the entity parliaments. It's even worse how it's possible that the Constitutional Court didn't decide not to hold a debate on this issue, as far as it's possible, that 71 could possibly... tell us stories, and bring us to a situation where every day we're going to discuss who is, why, what who's planning, what the result of that is going to be. The result of this in Bosnia and Herzegovina is continued devastion, loss of demographic capacity, leaving people from this space and everything...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10928	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10929	...loss of trust in the institutions. In this context, I believe it would be significant that the Constitutional Commission supported the principles and supported the constitutional basis and consistency with Bosnia and Herzegovina's legal system and that we should be in a position to hold a debate on the amendments to this Act in the next phase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10930	Correction of the wrong quote, Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10931	Thank you. Well, I was just thinking of having a fight with my colleague Arnaut because he mentioned me a few times needlessly, but here's the thing about how he cheated on me. I don't think I can do it. So, the Commission that was doing the text of this Law did not collect anything, but you reminded me that I could take something for this authoritative fee since the Commission obviously prescribed, whether, as you say, the text so that there was only I could take something from the fee, but here I didn't take anything. As far as I'm concerned, more seriously now, as far as this, uh, text of the law, I don't think there's really anything in this law that's anti-constitutional, and that's the key to the whole story to me. Whether there's something that's not a good solution or a solution that we disagree with, it's absolutely not a problem, we're talking about it. And because of that, since I'm not gonna answer at all, about the law I've been meaning to say everything I've said publicly and publicly and everything my colleagues have meant to say, I think they've said by now, I just want to say that this law has a constitutional basis. And why is there? Annex X of the Dayton Peace Agreement, Article 5, says the High Representative is the supreme authority in interpreting the civilian part of the agreement. In 2005, when I first proposed this Law as a reaction from the High Representative, Mr Pedi Eždaun, was the establishment of a working group to draft the Law on the Constitutional Court of BiH. So Pedi Eždaun formed a task force to draft the Constitutional Court Act. We're not going to say that he as the supreme interpreter of the Constitution did not interpret the Constitution well and formed a working group even though he had no right to do so. Is there any other argument we need to make so we can say that this law is suspended? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10932	Thank you very much. Milica Marković, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10933	Thank you, Madam Chairman. 72 Well, I'll try to say a few of my comments very briefly, because it's obviously a clear situation today about the mood of colleagues according to the proposals of these laws. What I'm trying to say is that it's probably most of us know that this is the third attempt if we look from the 2002 mandate to 2000, and here, the first attempt was to pass... the law in this House was in 2005, the second in 2010, and here we are today in a position to discuss the proposal of one of these laws. The opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission is as negative as it was in previous attempts to debate such a law and it is very surprising, especially by the lawyers who voted for this, whose votes were given this negative opinion of the Constitutional Commission, is that their view that the law has no constitutional basis is the least said for the sake of the constitutional law, which is not the case with the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, it is just part of the BiH Constitution. But also a judicial institution whose work has not been defined by a legal solution in this country. That's the first reason. Another reason, to think that it is still a sustainable state for foreign judges from a single constituent nation in Bosnia and Herzegovina to vote on judges from the other two constituent nations that this is a sustainable method of working in this judicial institution in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I think it is a complete illusion and delusion at the moment. But of course behind that are certain political intentions, that is clear to us, because those who consider it, and they actually favour the revote methodology in this country, while neglecting that the vote of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the 1990s led to an ambience called war. And today no one seems to have learned from the fact that in this country if it wants to survive and the method of voting is absolutely unacceptable to these citizens. Of course, some respond to the method of revote and are therefore struggling to survive and are therefore against the law that would adopt this Parliament and which the country's MPs would say should and vote on how this judicial institution should function. It is not very striking from the point of view if it is taken that the three judicial institutions that exercise judicial authority in this country, which are called the Court, the Prosecutor's Office of BiH and the Constitutional Court, are fully politicised, it is clear that their work is under political influence in this country and those who have the strongest political influence on these institutions are struggling to survive as they currently respond. To say that such a law is unconstitutional, so it is best to say about the section – believe it or not, to express myself in this way, believe it or not, and to believe that a country that has a Constitutional Court with foreign judges, which has long run out of time and no one knows when they are due, and how they work and how they do, to say it and to consider it normal and realistic in this country, and to talk about European integrations and to talk about how Bosnia and Herzegovina should be an equal member of the EU, to get candidate status and others, and these things are totally inconceivable in other normal countries where this is not a normal story. As is not a normal story, the country applies for a candidate of status, and it has a high representative's office leading it and its tutor throughout this story. So, we at SNSD propose and invite everyone else, who today will be in a position to plead on this, that if you agree with us that things that are not good and that don't work well in Bosnia and Herzegovina should be improved and worked on, and the Constitutional Court and its action is certainly one of these, to say, the topic of joint work, you should leave room for this story to continue and see how together we can reach the best possible solution. If for nothing else, what we're proposing, what we're asking of you, then that's what I think Mr. Bosić said today that the credibility of the Constitutional Court has been significantly violated. And I would say even worse than that, the work of the Constitutional Court by non-implementation and by inapplication of its decisions is completely compromising for this judicial institution, so the work of that Court is being compromised in this country and this society. And if someone thinks that way you can keep doing that, then I think it's there, that there's nothing left to add or take away, but to say that this is all we're doing is an impossible mission.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10934	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10935	So we invite you to leave space and give you the opportunity to keep talking about this and to find a way to get to a good solution. And that you don't think, in any case, that only the Constitutional Court ruling relating to Republika Srpska Day is the only reason for this proposal. I've already told you that this Law has had an attempt in some previous period when there was no judgment, but of course it is one of the difficult and important reasons for this law, but there are many, many other reasons, which we can't tell them all in these five minutes, over which we all need to imagine ourselves together most seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10936	Diana Zelenika, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10937	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues and colleagues. As counterpart Novaković said, allow me to take an unfair and medical note of the impressions of the Constitutional Court and of my medical adolescence, the causes of the disease, the work and treatment of this disease, the numerous diseases affecting Bosnia and Herzegovina. So when we talk about impressions, my impressions of the Constitutional Court's work we can talk about work or work or not working or success or failure, I'm not going to talk about expertise because it's understood that expertise is at stake. meċutim, when I hear it, here's the presentation of a previous colleague that all judges from Bosnia and Herzegovina are politicised and it's about revote, and that expertise is also questionable, because if we respect the Law, I don't know who would vote. In medicine, here are your colleagues sitting here who know that there are guidelines, there is therapy, and it is equal on both sides of the opposition and on the side of the position, so I don't know how different laws are interpreted. In any case, according to what was previously said to me personally, and the political option I represent is not at all a controversial composition. So we have all three constituent nations represented, and the international community was represented, and clearly according to all previous discussions on the previous and this point, especially if we look at raising tension or maturity, as some of our colleagues mentioned, or politicising judges in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that we clearly need the international community. By the way, let's remind ourselves that we are a state whose constitutional norms have been imposed by me by the international community, and of course with full law, because she gave us the peace and the end of the bloody war as she was 20 years ago. So we came to the right questions and solutions, findings and dilemmas. So it is evident that many have not, some may say that they have never been satisfied with the constitutional solutions resulting from the Dayton Agreement. Of course dissatisfactions are manifested through numerous remarks and it would be unnecessary, it would be relatively inexecutable all here to elaborate, but here I can recall Croatian dissatisfaction over the loss of Posavina in whose premises there were 185 thousand Hrvat, and now we have data on the return of several thousand. Perhaps the Bošnjak, rightly or not, hold some parts and cities as a consequence of all this 74 I say is Mostar, a city case – is that necessary? Perhaps earlier I thought that the Dayton solutions correspond to the members of the Serb people, silenced me by reading...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10938	Please stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10939	Absolutely because the item of the agenda is the draft law on the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10940	You must know that, excuse me just a moment to warn you, on the agenda is the Opinion of the Constitutional Committee which is negative and I ask you to stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10941	... if you allow me to discuss the referendum, talk about the TV channel, talk about paying the neighbors, let me give my opinion, because do not make discrimination here against the opposition, but allow us in an equal manner to all address it. It's about the law, I'm talking exclusively...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10942	Once again I warn you, please stick to the agenda and we are working on the Rules of Procedure, I am not here to refer exclusively to my will or to an individual MP, we are working on the Rules of Procedure and this applies to all MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10943	But you have to have the same criteria.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10944	I have the same criteria.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10945	...you don't, if you've allowed the talks on the referendum and the destruction of this country then let me say my opinion that the 80 judgments of the Constitutional Court have not been implemented, which is scandalous, catastrophic, unconstitutional however you wish. And then what kind of state is it and how it works, is there a rule of law? But I think it is, not that it is urgent and necessary to establish a legal state. And what I'm saying is that for 20 years we've been a protectorate state, we've had as many years as we have a high representative, but that we don't lie, gentlemen, we know the power and the high representative, the international community, and I think it's time to address it with desire and intent, and Bog forbid, and a proposal for how to change the Constitution and the formation of our country, because the partial solutions show the ineffectiveness and meaninglessness of everything, even just a solution to the Constitutional Court. For these reasons, I believe that changes in the constitutional court are necessary, but also so that in the state they are essentially not solving anything, and I am sure that this would be just one cosmetic solution that would result in a greater number of unimplemented decisions of that court. 75 There is a brief explanation without a referendum, without raising tensions, etc., why I have no faith in such a solution and why I would otherwise be abstentioned as to the Constitutional Court Act. Thank you very much and I ask you to treat each representative equally whether he is part of the position or opposition.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10946	Denis Bećivorić, the debate. It is not you who invite someone, we have all the Rules of Procedure and everyone does their job according to the Rules of Procedure, so do I this time when I chair. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10947	So, not repeating what I said today, I think the aim of a law like this is to turn the BiH Constitutional Court into a political body that will work and judge on the basis of political arches and directives, rather than on the basis of legal facts and arguments. And I think that if such a proposal were adopted, it would be a blow to the independence, impartiality and professionalism of the BiH Constitutional Court. Basically, I think there are two concepts at work here, one concept is the European rule of law and the other is the Balkan concept, where someone thinks it can affect the work of the BiH Constitutional Court. As it seems in practice, those who have dealt with the issue more have some examples, whether it will be necessary to mention them will be seen during the debate, but you know that some judges from the BiH Constitutional Court have just been removed from the BiH Constitutional Court because they have tried to make a political authority out of such a high institution or body. The second thing, when we talk about foreign judges, when we talk about foreign, foreign factor in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I have said today, and today at this point I repeat, and I would like to see someone who will stand up and say the opposite, and it is my point that all representatives of the ruling parties at both state and entity level are a foreign factor for the external factor in this country. Which external factor could be very easy for me to identify which external factor outside the borders of this country wants and prefers. I think the foreign judges in the Constitutional Court are the first thing in the constitutional category and the Constitution has not told us that we have to change that, but that we can change it. But the Constitution initially told us that all of us are committed to the sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And as we have heard today, and as we know, not all are therefore determined, which is an integral part of the Constitution of this land. So that wording from the Constitution can, when we're committed to respecting the Constitution and the Dayton Peace Agreement. I think there's a confession to be given to foreign judges in this country. There are decisions of the Constitutional Court that I personally disagree with, but I would never question them, nor comment. The next thing I want to say is that the issue of foreign judges is not, as it is today trying to present itself, a legal but constitutional issue, because composition, structure, decisions and everything else, when it comes to the Constitutional Court, are prescribed by the Constitution of BiH. If we had accepted a law like this, we would have come into one and legally unwanted, not to say the illogical situation, that we had six, under the precepts, constitutional judges and three, so to speak, legal judges. So, along with all the asymmetry and that's where we would introduce asymmetry. The next thing I want to say is that it's very indicative that we've been having attacks on the final authority of the Dayton Peace Agreement ever since. Imagine what would happen in this country if the Federation had interpreted for itself Dejton, Republika Srpska for itself, state authorities for itself, Brcko District for itself, etc. And two final interpreters of Dayton Peace 76 agreements are the BiH Constitutional Court and the High Representative. And it's signed in Dayton, however anyone loves it or doesn't love it. I think this law with such content was proposed not to be adopted because it was proposed to be adopted
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10948	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10949	would not be in Article 6.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10950	Time will be taken away from all who exceed the time of the future.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10951	Please nice, they talked people by...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10952	Please, here, please, each of you would like to be some sort of judge here. I know some people don't understand what we're talking about, but I hope you understand what we're talking about, you've been talking about that all along, you haven't told us anything about the agenda point.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10953	gospoċo Krišto... respect the Rules of Procedure, so you were 20...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10954	We respect the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10955	You said we'd start at half three, you came half an hour later,...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10956	The session started on time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10957	You interrupt the previous lady who...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10958	I'm interrupting because of course she's not talking about the agenda debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10959	You've shortened the hearing to five minutes without a basis.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10960	Here's the thing, I won't do anything, but we're going to fix the wrong quote, Aleksandra Pandurević.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10961	I thank the chairman. 77 I must indeed respond to the allegations by Mr Bećirović that someone wants political influence and a political court. You see, dear counterpart Bećirović, I remember perfectly, and I will make sure that in the archives of one text in "Freedom", the text analyzes the composition of the Constitutional Court of BiH and domestic judges, their membership in political parties. Turns out none of these judges have been an impartial figure for more than seven days. They were expelled from their political parties within two days appointed Judges of the Constitutional Court. As much as there's no politics there. But much more worrying than that is that the Constitutional Court is some fourth pillar of power in this country and much more dangerous, even than the political court, is what the former President of the Constitutional Court, Mrs Hatidža Hadziosmanovic-Hadžiosmanović-Matić, said about the institution. The woman spoke of crime and racketeering in the Constitutional Court, openly, publicly in the media, and never one institution, nor the country's prosecution addressed the team. The woman said that in the case of Alijagić, there was a racket, that she was pressured, she resisted, she was honorable and congratulated. Unfortunately, in some other cases, it's a public secret in this country, they haven't resisted. If you ask me personally, my position is that we should also change part of the Constitution relating to the BiH Constitutional Court and finally introduce order into that institution and that we have the Constitutional Court as Croatia, Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10962	Thank you very much. A colleague, Deputy Šefik Džaferović, Denis Bećirović, correction of the wrong allegations, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10963	Dear counterpart Džaferović, you well know that it is time for members of the College to take precedence.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10964	No, it's different now, there's electronics here...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10965	It's no problem at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10966	I listen to what the chairman tells me, and so do you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10967	Otherwise, it is allowed from the place, so the chairman warns you. So, since it's a replica I want to say now in the context of a few things. If this Law had been proposed today, it would certainly have made many solutions in this Law look different. But here it seems the goal was to make this proposal unacceptable. If that were the case, see Article 1 and Article 6. Article 1 says - in accordance with the Constitution of BiH, and in Article 6. – in the work of the Constitutional Court are in equal use of the language and letter of the constituent peoples. And the Constitution does not say the wording of "constitutive peoples" but is "Bosnian, Croatian and Serbian". So that was clear that there was no talking about it. This part that Pandurević now spoke of, and some negativity in the work of the BiH Constitutional Court, certainly in the time that follows, we do not need to run away from it either. Neither of what the senior SNSD official wrote to his boss nor how the U.S.A. has given priority to the Constitutional Court of an individual compared to a legal expert like Prof. 78 Kasim Trnka, etc., but we simply have no environment to talk about the moment when you have a party ruling from your entity who, here today, orders what it plans in 2017. In a member...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10968	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10969	The bodies that make the choice, so why haven't we applied European experiences here. European experiences say there is a majority, super-majority, monocrat, combined system of choice of judges. No European principles have been applied here. .../the ambassador warns himself that his time has run out... that neither Europe knows... there are many... things, but here the chairman has determined that we have one, two sessions in the day, that we have a salary of 5,000 and that day limit our discussion to five minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10970	Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10971	Thank you, Madam Chairman. ... referredto Mr. Denis Bećirović. You just said that the SDA allowed someone to go to the Constitutional Court instead of the distinguished expert Dr. Kas Trnke, is correct, this one, but she is also SDA, but with the crucial help of the SDP, even there the SDA looked like a passive observer as far as the SDP has activated through its MPs, and by the order of its president then, for the selection of the man who went from these parliamentary benches to the Constitutional Court and at the expense of Faris Vehabović, who is now so expert in the European Court of Human Rights as judge in front of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Then it's... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Mr. Ćeman, it's clear.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10973	Please don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10974	So correcting the wrong quote,... So, the SDP was open then, so activated. Therefore, be careful the next time you refer to these criticisms, the SDP is deeply involved in this kind of action, so don't put on any of these criticisms unless you're ready to be reminded of your open role. So, indeed, everyone else was passive observers as much as you have openly applied in that case in the Federation Parliament. Thank you. 79
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10975	Lazar Prodanović, correction of the wrong quote, and Diana Zelenika, non-compliance with the established agenda. Here you go. I apologize to Lazar Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10976	Thank you very much. In line with the culture of dialogue, I didn't want to go from place to place, but I have to get up so I can ask the Madam Chairman if this comment is the last one with a reference to the name, whether it has anything to do with the opinion of the Constitutional Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10977	Just so you know, these are the corrections of the wrong quote and you refer to the one to whom the correction applies. And I've seen who the correction applies to, in fact, it's already referred to. There's only that much. I'm sorry indeed colleagues and distinguished MPs that you didn't understand, in some way, my warning that you were following the agenda, because the opinion of the Committee means, you prepared a debate on the Constitutional Court, you could have otherwise that the point was defined, and so unfortunately the situation is as it is. Lazar Prodanović, correction of the wrong allegations. Damir Arnaut, another breach of the Rules of Procedure. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10979	Only, Article 76(2) of the Rules of Procedure, that it would not remain if I had come out of the agenda, although you have already explained this to the Honorable Madam Chairman, but I do wish so, so Article 76 (2) - the MP has the right to correct the wrong allegations...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10980	No matter what.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10981	So it doesn't apply to the agenda at all. So, if Mr. Bećirović says something that is out of the agenda, and it refers to something that I think is wrong, I have the right to correct it. Just so I don't get out.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10982	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10983	What do you mean? We're keeping an eye on it. Correction of the wrong quote can be twice. All colleagues are properly registered. Just be careful, behave in accordance with the Code and you will see that there will be no need for any interventions and the session will go in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Correction of the wrong quote, Lazar Prodanović. 80
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10984	I don't think it's correctly respected colleagues, Bećirović cited as a member of the 10th Law, he is therefore identically copied from the position (a) of the BiH Constitutional Court, the BiH Constitution. So, for 4 members of the BiH Constitutional Court, the Federation of BiH Parliament, the Federation of BiH's House of Representatives, and the 2nd National Assembly of Republika Srpska, is elected. So commenting on this article is not... because I believe that, and I do not think you can compare it, so it is also prescribed by the BiH Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10985	Mirsad Đonlagić, a correction to the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10986	I'm really sorry, I have no intention of discussing this, the core of this issue here, but I'm also sorry that a colleague I greatly appreciate should rephrase. Well, taking your opinion on this, on the one hand, they tell you not to talk because it's a kind of pressure on something, and now you're saying if you're going in the direction of the expected reaction, that's why you're bringing it up. Well, here, man doesn't know what to say anymore. Please let us say what we think, and you interpret whatever you want, but keep it to yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10987	Thank you. Šefik Džaferović, deputy. Here you go, debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10988	Dear colleagues of the chair, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I said last time I was going to run this replica issue, so then I thought I'd leave it the way it is, but this today's behavior really puts me in a position to initiate it within this college, because this doesn't make any sense. So this shows how ready we are to respect the people who regularly applied for the discussion and how much we actually abuse the institute of replicas, false allegations or corrections, etc. I'm begging you, so I'm going to be one of those who's going to initiate this application for discussion makes sense. As for the very point of the agenda, let me say that this is a very difficult, very complex question that cannot be answered in the way that it was tried through these two bill proposals. So we have a bill that practically changes the constitutional position of the Constitutional Court. The BiH Constitutional Court has an autonomous position, it itself regulates its rules of conduct under constitutional authority, even the Constitution and the quorum have prescribed it. The decision-making process in the Constitutional Court and the constitutional structure of the BiH Constitutional Court, in which the parties are scheduled, is directly and indirectly linked to the Dayton Agreement in the case of the Dayton Constitution of BiH with different levels of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina, their competences, ways of decision-making within these different authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. If we want to discuss this issue the right way, then we need to open up a discussion on all these issues. Discussing only the Constitutional Court means, in this way, 81 violations of one balance established by the Dayton Peace Agreement. I'm not going to go too far today for discussion, so I'm not going to make any analysis, I'm just going to give you two examples of what this law leads to. My Koleginica Marković today, I mean quite unnecessaryly, I replicated it, announced some big referendum, we know what we're talking about. And let's say that this thing happens, which is the legal way to protect Bosnia and Herzegovina? So, the legal path – BiH Constitutional Court. If the way you propose to vote is applied, Bosnia and Herzegovina cannot defend itself against such activity. An appeal cannot be adopted that would put one such decision out of force because you suggest that the decision-making procedure be prescribed to be a representative for each decision, at least one representative from each entity of each nation. So, to know what to look for. When it comes to vital national interest, this Parliament, or the House of People, loses its meaning. If such a solution were adopted then it means that in the Constitutional Court, when it comes to vital national interest, no question could be treated as a question, as there would be an ethnic vote to prevent it. I've cited only two examples, and I can talk a lot about what it means. On the other hand, I am not running away to talk about all these issues, but on the condition that we really talk about all the issues, to remove fears, to make a solution, but not to endanger the state, its territorial integrity and sovereignty, to keep the protection mechanisms strong, to enable the functioning of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and to ensure the equality of every citizen in the whole territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina at every level of government. If that's how we approach, and that's an honest approach, it's not possible to talk about only one level and about equality, but about all levels, then we'll find a solution. So this should be the way. We will have to deal with foreign judges in the Constitutional Court, the Constitution itself has given that kind of opportunity, but in order to give me a solution to this we must have a serious analysis and answers to these questions. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10989	Thank you. Milica Marković, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10990	Well, you've had some unnecessary findings, Mr. Džaferović, because now I'm going to tell you that don't think that your arguments will scare someone here and scare them. I simply cannot believe that I have heard that you state today as a reason why I said here in Parliament today, that this is why you cannot support the proposal for this constitutional law, and this is the third law that the SNSD proposes on judicial institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Before that, it was the Law on the Court of BiH and the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of BiH and you've all been as smooth as this one you want to refuse and now you find excuses and arguments for it. The illustrations do, therefore, only one example, will Republika Srpska never implement the Constitutional Court ruling on the ban on the day of the Republika Srpska on January 9th. And you saw this year's 9th of January ceremony and celebrations and festivals all who were in Banja Luka and throughout Republika Srpska were far more solemn and richer and greater than any previous years. That is the ruling of the BiH Constitutional Court. Also, when a referendum happens in Republika Srpska, so don't let us, don't live in the delusion that you're going to scare someone, that in 90 and some cases they won't apply, that they will prevent this referendum from being implemented and that they will get what we want to get. Do not live in error and do not try to deceive us with these findings that these are the reasons why you will not accept the Constitutional Court Act. You have the constitutional court that exists today and how you work today to revote others in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And unfortunately, you, as I see it, live deeply murdered that this is the method on which Bosnia and Herzegovina and society in this country
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10991	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10992	It survives and can endure. I'm telling you it's the wrong way to go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10993	Šefik Džaferović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10994	Well, you see, Mrs. Marković, there's no need for you to give yourself that much meaning. I am not building my position based on what you say, I have long built my position based on scientific, professional analysis, knowledge of Bosnia and Herzegovina's constitutional system and trying to be correct and hard to be correct with everyone in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I wouldn't go out at all right now if I were to rephrase to you, otherwise I only replicate to you once you've crossed every possible line, otherwise I would always come out here after your every discussion and direct you to the replicas. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10995	Thank you. Denis Bećirović, a correction to the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10996	Oh, this is more like my colleague's first clarification to Prodanović. In fact, it's true that I referred to Article 10, but I didn't have time to explain what I meant to say about it, it probably wouldn't have come to this replica. It is that I do not deny at all that the solution offered to us here in Article 10 is currently prescribed in the Constitution. meċutim, today, in all the discussions, we have had the opportunity to convince ourselves that as a goal of harmonising the Constitutional Court with European standards, so I am in this context, and regarding Article 10 concerning the choice of Judges of the Constitutional Court, asked why we are not using European experience. The European experience in this regard, which shows us a comparative analysis, knows the majority selection system of constitutional judges such as in Slovenia, a super-majority system such as in Germany and other countries, a combined system such as in Italy or the fourth model present only in one country, in France, a monocrat system where the Constitutional Council selects three members, three presidents of one House of Parliament and three presidents of another home. If we really want to comply with European standards, then let's see what it is, what European experiences are, and apply them consistently. 83 And another replica refers to this question, which is often put forward today in connection with the referendum. The referendum entity on state issues has no meaning for this country. An entity referendum in Republika Srpska on the Court of Justice and the Prosecutor's Office or the Constitutional Court's decision has the same weight as a referendum in the Federation of BiH on entity voting here in parliament. What kind of influence would he have? Not at all. So there's no state in the world
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10997	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10998	which would allow a lower level of government to decide on the entire state. Neither Vojvodina in Serbia nor Bavaria in Germany nor Sicily in Italy, nor in any other country. And the referendum, if it's up to him, and I'm not calling on him, is not just a threat to Bosnia and Herzegovina, it's also a big chance for Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I'm not going to explain this to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u10999	Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11000	The Honorable Chairman. I feel like I'm lost here, I'm serious. The subject we have is the least spoken of, and we have a situation in which we are flossular, so I have to say, threatened. I don't know what, and how, and why, I don't know why, and I don't know what the goal is, but I can only say that I am an MP of this Parliament, that I am elected by votes, and that I am obliged to respect the constitutional order of this state. I have never denied anything written in the Constitution, but I say my opinion when it comes to trying to improve something. And I would ask you that, and replicators, these are those replicas that are now persecuting all over the world that are being produced in China, and the debaters warn that the topic here is Opinion. And the most important thing would be to say – I agree or disagree with this opinion. Since I agree, I'm going to vote yes, because I don't agree, I don't think that's right in there or that. Now, since my discussion is about to come, I'm going to do it, and I remember and how I agree or disagree to say when to the discussion. And don't forget where and how, otherwise, when it comes to you personally, me personally, children, on the street, and here, any kind of conditioning and threats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11001	Thank you very much. So this was the correcting of the wrong allegation, that's how I understood it. Sadik Ahmetović, a correction to the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11002	I don't know what I'd call it, but I have to say that Mrs. Marković is speaking some kind of tone that has a bit of a threat, if someone were to be afraid of something like that that she's saying about this pay phone. But I must remind you that I listened to you from '92. years on Radio Bijeljina to get pretty close to it and believe that, and I'm telling you, that time has passed. We are a country that needs to join the EU application, I think that in this sense we should discuss this item on the agenda, and less and less on the decisions of the Constitutional Court of BiH. 84 Behold, I am telling you that the Constitutional Court's decision will be carried out on January 9th. And by what we can conclude here today, all of us, probably foreign judges are protecting against reneging Bosnia and Herzegovina's state and its constitution. So that's what we can get out of all the decisions of the Constitutional Court so far, because those who have made the Dayton Peace Agreement knew, therefore, and what kind of people they can come and how much they love the state, and how much they don't love it, both in Parliament, and in the Constitutional Court and in every institution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11003	Thank you. Hazim Rančić, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11004	Yes, several colleagues and colleagues claim that this Law is in accordance with the Constitution. I'm saying it's not, starting with Article 1, but here's what I'm going to do with Article 10. The law. Article 10. The law reads -- the Federation of BiH's House of Representatives elects 6 judges, and the National Assembly of Republika Srpska elects three judges. A Constitution prescribes, Article 6. item (1) under a) – 4 members elect the House of Representatives and 2 members of the Republika Srpska Assembly. So 4 and 2. So how can the law counter the Constitution to prescribe that someone chooses six and nine? Yeah, there's a chance in the Constitution that we've been in charge for five years, but we first have to change things in the Constitution, be complex, and then come up with something like this to regulate. And here, so you don't turn up again, you spend your time and your time, this debate and agenda points, and what's on the agenda, especially in terms of 6 and 7, regardless of what's negative opinion in accordance with Article 113 and, I think, 82. The Rules of Procedure, therefore, and those laws and opinions, however they may be, are on the agenda. So we can discuss the Opinion and the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11005	Dušanka Majkić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11006	I would like to say to my Ahmetović that, as far as we are from Republika Srpska, or Republika Srpska, has never questioned what is the jurisdiction of Bosnia and Herzegovina, its exclusive jurisdiction. And so we've never asked a single question here, as we've tried in all ways to prevent them from being passed, like this next law, laws that are completely anti-constitutional. But what I'm saying is, here we have another case that no one will speak out loud, we have a retroactive application, as only according to the representatives of the Serb people in the Court of BiH applied the law that came after the action and in this case Republika Srpska was created on 9 January '92. the year, and the Constitutional Court was established in '97. A year. So what are we talking about? What are we talking about? The constitution is '95. For years, what do we agree with? So please be correct. Republika Srpska's birthday is in '92. In the year, he will remain the permanent fluid of an entity called Republika Srpska.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11007	Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong quote. 85
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11008	The Dayton Peace Agreement was signed in 1995 and the internal structure of Bosnia and Herzegovina was created in 1995. The team was created by Brcko District and entities, and the internal previous structure is no longer respected. We need to read what it says in all the annexes and what it says in the Dayton Peace Accords. So we're talking about something that is the Dayton structure of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Only here is it officially said – the Federation, but not the Hrvat and Bošnjak, but all the constitutive, Republika Srpska, not the Srbin, but all the constituent, state of all the constitutive, equal and citizens. And the Convention on Human Rights is added as a law above all laws in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11009	Thank you. Your Honor, you now have a word for debate. If you're giving up, just let me know.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11010	I'm not going to give up Mrs. Krišto, I'm going to try to be brief, not to use these five minutes. We talk here all the time like we're in a deaf room or we don't really want to understand each other at all. And I'm going to use my right now and I'm going to be quiet for a minute. I'll talk, you won't hear me, I'll talk everything, but I'm talking to myself. - The ambassador won't say anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11011	The word is from the chairman of the House, Mrs. Borjana Krišto. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11012	Why can't I finish mine? Let me finish, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11013	There is a discussion and replica in the Rules of Procedure... ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11014	/microphone is not enabled/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11015	The word has the Madam Chairman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11016	Thank you very much. Here, since we have on the agenda the opinion of the Constitutional Commission on the Proposal for a Law on the Constitutional Court of BiH. In this Opinion, we have seen that this Committee, when it came to the constitutional basis of this Law, decided, with 4 votes in favour and 4 votes against and one vote abstention, it has found that this Bill on the Constitutional Court did not comply with the Constitution and the legal system of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but so did the Commission, with 3 votes for, 4 votes against and one abstention, did not accept the principles of the Constitutional Court's proposal. 86 What do I mean? I listened to carefully respected colleagues and colleagues who discussed not only this Opinion, but also to the fact of this Law, so they referred to many things. I will indeed refer to what is the constitutional basis of this law, and that will be, in some ways, my commitment to how I will treat this opinion when we plead. As far as the constitutional foundation is concerned, he, in some ways, is not asked, may be a questionable name, given that we refer to the Constitutional Court, here as a constitutional category, and that in point d) says – for appointment after more than 5 years after the initial appointment of the Judges, the Parliamentary Assembly may provide for a law by a different method of selecting the three judges elected by the President of the European Court of Human Rights, which means that the Parliamentary Assembly can decide by law on the choice of judges. So, in my opinion, maybe the name of this law is at this point with the present Constitution, in some ways, questionable, but ultimately I can say that I support that there is a constitutional basis for adopting such a law. When it comes to the principles and principles of this law, again from the aspect of this Constitution, which, above all, is to me and personally as a person who comes from a political option from a nation, is unacceptable, unfair and unsustainable, but we are the ones who show that until we change things to respect the current constitutional basis for the adoption of determined laws. And that's how we're gonna behave this time. Here he says that the court will adopt its own rights with the majority of its members and the court will conduct public proceedings and carry out the reasons for its decisions, which means that the court will regulate its own rules the way and procedure of the election. I don't see any reason why this court today would not, in accordance with this Constitution, arrange, so irrelevantly, a way of making decisions in which it will protect against everything that we have said today, and that is the fear, I don't know, voting, etc. But as long as we don't do it, that is, until we change the basis for passing one of these laws, I think we should behave in accordance with the current constitution. So other principles that are stated are unacceptable to me in this opinion, because here it is said about the choice of judges from, like all three constituent nations, are not said in any way, so I can only tell you that someone would explain to me in which way and which would be Hrvat who would be elected from the House of Representatives of the Federation or from another entity, means from this House. That means there'd be another scene of what we're talking about here today. Therefore, if we are to regulate and deliver a law which will also be constitutionally established and which will have principles and be in line with the legal system, we should arrange for it to be regulated by the Council of Ministers, to do so by those who need to be a technical processor and to really be systematic, to talk about the organisation of the court, to talk about how decisions are made, etc., who makes, about the number of judges, precisely to know who chooses. Because why today we are talking about the Constitutional Court here to be elected by entity homes, or legislative bodies, when we have the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the executive, or legislative authority. So, here, I just want to say, in the end, that if we want to get out of these problems, at least these stories and the discussions that came out of it, I think we should think a little bit about coming out, maybe leaving room to discuss this constitutional basis one more time, and let's think about this, here's how we're going to define this opinion, and I kind of said it in terms of our position, because my president of the club said that it wouldn't come out, it wouldn't be debated, and we said our position through the Constitutional Commission. Here's what I'm calling all of us to try and come up with one more chance to discuss, to open up some debate, to head to the Council of Ministers, etc. if we want to, in one systematic and true way, which would be principled, and which in no way would go to either revote or influencing certain rights, to resolve this issue which is really very important in which, which is in fact a correction of legislative and executive authorities. We very much need this Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially at the moment. Thank you very much. 87
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11017	Thank you. Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11018	I thank you, Your Honor, for the chairmanship. After what the President-in-Office said, here I was even thinking about giving up the discussion, but I must say that what she said seemed to me to sound like a voice of reason in this House, and I am sorry that she did not turn to the beginning of the discussion on this Law, or this Opinion. And through her discussion, there were some possible solutions. We understand that this solution is not acceptable to all of us. But it's clear here, and from the discussion, that today, I think, most of this House realized that foreign judges should leave at that time. Why did we predict this kind of choice? Because existing judges, the Constitution has foreseen domestic judges, the way they choose. I would like it if this Parliament had the strength to change constitutional provisions relating to the BiH Constitutional Court, so that we have the Constitutional Court ordered the way it was arranged everywhere in democratic countries. That we have a Constitutional Court that will, as such, make decisions that will not really be commented and decisions that will be implemented. That we have a Constitutional Court that will have that legitimacy. Because I'm going to remind you, I don't really know if in Europe, colleagues might know that,...here, is there any other way in Europe that there's a chance that there's a future judge of the Constitutional Court? I know that in Croatia and Serbia it is not possible, they are elected to office. It is even very much taken into account that their mandate does not coincide with the current authority's mandate not to be, the re-election is prohibited precisely because they do not succumb to political influences at the end of their term and make political decisions. I wish we had so much power to create constitutional assumptions so that we can make a court like Croatia or Serbia has, we don't have to go any further than our neighbours, and you have a talker in us for that. And that's why I support what my colleague Krišto said. Let this be, here we call all, one start of opening dialogue and this problem, that in the end, I want to live in a country where neither the decisions of the courts nor the prosecution nor the decisions of the Constitutional Court will be commented. I'm afraid we're very far from that country today. That none, absolutely none of us here, let alone the citizens of this country, believe in the legal system of this country. It is up to us and we are the most responsible to create a legal system here and make this country a legal state. And that's why I invite you all to, here's our law to be the beginning of this dialogue and to seek the right solution for the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11019	Thank you. Zaim Backović debate, but from where else...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11020	I'm not gonna shut up, don't worry, I'm not gonna shut up, because obviously even when you're quiet, when you're talking, it's not right. We forget here that we, whether we want it or not, are facing a thorough amendment to the Constitution. We forget, all of us here, that there is a crucial change waiting for us that will pull behind us into the spiral of a large number of changes, that is the verdict of Sejdić-Sejdić-Finci. We're going to have to bring it in whether or not we want to, otherwise we're going to stay not a appendix, but a appendix that needs to be removed. Did I say that right? Yeah, hey, it's good. I used to take it and you know it. And in something that will take back some other changes, and then with certainty there will be a change of 88 of this Law, so with certainty there will be changes in the constitutional court structure, so even those who are absolutely discriminated in this country, we forget that here live, I don't know, Rus and rusin, the Ukrajinac, Albanac, Makedonac, Crnogorac, no, no, they are constitutional, they are constitutional, Slovenac, Nijemac...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11021	I'm asking you to have your doubts, you've had the debate, I thought you had something important to tell us.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11022	So let me finish.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11023	Come on, you have one sentence to finish. ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11024	We will have to change this constitutional court structure completely, as well as the way we choose. Because they will have to be satisfied virtually all, and what we now call minorities, which we do not have constitutionally, because they do not exist, there are none, because we will have to give them something called benches in this House, which is perfectly normal, in this way and positions within the government. So the foreign judges will be able to replace these people, and then we won't be able to think that the two nations will eventually, I don't know, agree between me and my colleague and the Hrvat and the Bošnjak and the Serbs, and the Srbin, they agree, and they outvote the Bošnjak, and these are the ones who outvote the Hrvat, but they'll have to deal with it in a completely different way. Here it must be thought that this is a country of equal people. We still don't think that egonational and religious anywhere in the world has brought good, it's brought ruin everywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11025	Thank you. I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Moving to point eight, Ad. 8. Proposal for a law on the use and management of property in the state property of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Šemsudin Mehmedović and Zaim Backović (first reading) The proposal for a law was submitted in procedure 25.12.2015, the Legislative and Legal Sector delivered its Opinion on the Consistency of the Proposal for a Law as set out in Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the Uniform Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which has been established that it is not fully in line with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. For this reason, the Kolega of the dom decided to request a correction of the observed shortcomings in the Bill proposal. At the request of the Constitutional Legal Commission, the draft law was removed from the agenda of the 23rd session of the House, as the applicants did not deliver the correction of 89 of the observed deficit. On 18 January 2016, the applicants submitted a request for a correction to the proposal for a law on the use and management of property in the state property of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The relevant Constitutional Commission delivered 02.02. Opinion on the compliance of the bill with the BiH Constitution and the Bosnia and Herzegovina legal system. I'm opening a debate. Predrag Kožul, the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11027	Well, it's really about a law that treats a very complex and serious matter and it's about a law of 11 articles. Within these 11 articles we have formed two new institutions of the state, we have criminal, transitional, final provisions and provisions on the entry into force of the Law. I think it's a little bit unserious to put such serious and complex matter together in two of the articles that are left. And the matter is really complex. Article 3 defines everything that belongs to this matter, the truth is it's called the subject of the Law, but it's better to say... definition, better said... subject matter of the Law. So also defined to be there under both a) and the forest, and water, and waterways, etc., that there are public roads, and railways, and much, that there, on several occasions, is defined all the property regardless of whether that property in the period of termination... in any way or in any form has been held by any legal person or body of public or private character. This reminds me of nationalization perhaps a new one, they say already, although none of us have seen it, we don't have so many years, maybe Venecuela's been working alike lately. And then hypothetically, it's all defined through one agency, and that agency, again in Article 3, is going to see what else could be state property. I think this is a matter that needs to be handled more carefully at the level of a legal solution. And then hypothetically all those assets that will eventually remain, we'll put her in one fund and give her only one purpose. I think it's too brave to do that within this article of the Law. Of course, in Article 9 of the Penal Codes, I don't see whether the fines are from 5 to 500 marks, because this from 5 thousand to 500 thousand marks is a little confusing to me. So I really think and say it's a serious matter, a complex matter that deserves a far more serious approach as far as the legal solution is concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11028	Thank you very much. Representative Nikola Špirić called for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11029	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, distinguished guests. I can't really slow down the efforts that MPs make when they propose certain laws, but I would really like all of us to be in line with the possibilities. This is, as my colleague Kožul said, the problem this country has been facing for a long time. And in order to get to an adequate solution, we need to get rid of a lot of other previous things. Bosnia and Herzegovina has not passed the Restitution Act, these buildings where we are sitting today are located on the property of the Serbian Orthodox Church, which never in this country, and I don't know other religious communities, the property has not been recovered. But to put this aside now, I would like to say that, as chairman of the Council of Ministers, I have tried to deal with this problem with various types of political talks and at a time when individual representatives of the international community instead of 90 helping..., so after the decision of High Representative Pedi Eždaun, who passed the Law on the ban on the availability of Republika Srpska's assets, and thus made it clear that it is Republika Srpska's property. We then got the strength, then the Federation Prime Minister was Mr Branković, the Prime Minister was Mr Milorad Dodik, I chaired the Council of Ministers, and we came to an agreement on the final availability of all rights and obligations, a mobile property that would continue to serve for defence purposes. Unfortunately, shortly afterwards, just a few months, the Federation gave up the application of this agreement, I suppose, expecting some better solutions. However, this never stood at a dead end, political talks were held and following a 9 March 2012 agreement between the party leaders on military and state property at a meeting of the Council of Ministers on 21 March 2012 a conclusion was reached that the Ministry of Defence was tasked with carrying out activities and preparing a draft decision on the implementation of the agreement on agreed principles on military property. That was the leader's deal. And we were dealing with a serious problem just before, when political matters get closer, when people reach a consensus, then it comes to the Constitutional Court Decision of 13 July 2012, where the State Property Status Act in Republika Srpska takes effect, and the decision came into effect on 18 September. Then, after a meeting, the six-member leaders agreed at a meeting on 20 November 2012 to allow the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the Council of Ministers, entity governments and parliaments to implement already signed political arrangements to address the issue of immovable military property and state property in March 2012. When we talk about the six-man leaders, I think about all the political parties, so also those present here today, and it seems to me that the Party for BiH was then, the one outside of Parliament. Under this March agreement, the general principles for military and state-owned property are that property no longer needed for the work of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Authority is returned to book as property of entities, cantons, municipalities or some other institutions. Unfortunately, there was then political destabilisation in the Federation, so some were executive authorities, others were legislative authorities, and this was nailed to it. But I must say so, to draw attention to the fact that then on the basis of the agreement of the six-man council of ministers, we first came to the draft of the law, to, therefore, the draft of the State Property Act, it's 17.12.2013. The task force was committed by the Ministry of Civil Affairs Sredoje Nović, the Ministry of Communications Damir Hadžić and the Ministry of Justice, Mr Bariša Čolak. Unfortunately, this Law was never laid down, nor was it a part of the agenda that could be discussed. Shortly thereafter, the representatives, I think, of the SDA, no, offered some new proposal to disabling this one, and there was a point. I am for having political talks on resolving...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11030	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11031	this complex problem, but this offered draft law is far away from us from the solution and perhaps it would be better not to go out with individual bill proposals, perhaps with initiatives to, but to do so, within institutions, so that any solution can be reached. I don't think this law is acceptable in any way to the Republic of Serbia, I see that my colleague Kožul says and finds other remarks, nor for representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, and I don't think this law can, at least as far as I'm concerned, have my personal support. Thank you. 91
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11032	Momčilo Novaković, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11033	Thank you very much. I really don't think the text of this law deserves a man to spend 10 minutes as far as he belongs to the Rules of Procedure, so I'm going to talk about this very briefly. I would like to thank the legislators of the Law for proposing this Law which today, and also in the future, will serve as an example of how important it is for Bosnia and Herzegovina to remain an entity vote. And this Law will always, and one day when the debate on constitutional changes comes, serve as an argument that will make any ambition unacceptable to anyone in that direction unacceptable. That is why this Law should be preserved in a drawer, of course not in parliamentary procedure, it will, more than certain, end today with its parliamentary procedure, but should be preserved as an example of how and how something that is not complex can be complicated in this country, raise tensions and when they are not there, or when there are but not enough, by some. I think he on that side really deserves all the attention. Once again, I thank my colleagues for giving us the opportunity to see how important it is to keep the data structure of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Dayton category when it comes to how the entity is voted and preserved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11034	Dušanka Majkić, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11035	So in tone... counterpart Novaković continued it would be really interesting, did not finish everything, as it is possible that this law had received an opinion on compliance with the BiH Constitution and that these constitutional principles had been given a passivity. So here is the great work of the Constitutional Commission today to be left behind in the annals, and to show one day how these people in that Commission were doing. It would be really interesting if a colleague, in the way he was now saying, had made a review, had continued to look back at this, to say this, this is really amazing.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11036	Debate, Milica Marković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11037	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Well, here I will continue here where my colleague Dušanka Majkić stood and say the miracles and relations of the Constitutional Commission, here are only three laws, which happened to be behind each other today in the agenda, and in the previous two there are no constitutional basis, against the Constitution and the principles of that law, based on all this and refering to the Constitution, and here there is a constitutional basis and supporting the pyrns and everything else. So, this is about double standards and the arches of individual MPs, and here's specifically in the Constitutional Commission, and these double arches and double standards are exactly the chains and shackles on Bosnia and Herzegovina that prevent it and keep it from taking a full step forward. So, this is, this bill is totally unacceptable and cannot be supported, because according to our position, the SNSD Club, it is he who is, the law that is unconstitutionally founded, because 92 here is referred to only two members of the Constitution. The first is Chapter I, Part One, which speaks of continuity, where it is said - that the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, whose official name is from now on Bosnia and Herzegovina, continues its legal existence under international law as a state with an internal structure modified by this Constitution and with existing internationally recognised borders. It remains a UN Member State, etc., therefore, of its presence in the international institution. There is no mention of ownership of Bosnia and Herzegovina's right of ownership of movable and immovable property. That's one thing. And the second thing, where the Proposer is called on Chapter IV, Part Four, Point (a) as regards the competence of the House of Representatives, or the Parliamentary Assembly where it is said to be – that the Parliamentary Assembly is in charge of passing laws. Well, yes, it is, but not all and all kinds of laws, let's say, like this one here today suggested. Let me just mention a few more items on which this bill is disputed. The proposer says that since the adoption of this law, any mobile and immovable property would be owned by Bosnia and Herzegovina, it would have had its hands on it. To that end, a new ownership agency would be established over movable and immovable assets and development funds. Which suggests that what they said at the end of the proposal for this text that the implementation, or application of this Act, does not require additional financial resources, is not true. Therefore, additional financial resources are needed to establish, establish an agency and set up a development fund. The agency and the fund wouldn't only exist on paper, they need living people who need to work and who need to have certain resources. So, it's very necessary, and on that side it's unwarranted, so this initiative and the bill's proposal is unwarranted. Not to mention that Bosnia and Herzegovina would assume jurisdiction from entities, from cantons, from municipalities, from cities, which today, to a certain extent, therefore, have the right to moving and immovable property that they have today. Just take, say, municipalities and cities where, on the basis of the city or municipality responsible for certain movable or immovable property, it collects certain funds in its budgets, fees, contributes and remains on the basis of the taxation of citizens on that movable and immovable property. So, Bosnia and Herzegovina would usurp all its rights to have the team at its disposal and decide on it itself to further dispose of the property, which is totally unacceptable and what is the takeover of competence from entities, from cities, from cantons and municipalities, etc. She, that's her jurisdiction in Dayton, is not under the Dayton Peace Agreement. Plus, when we add that this is a completely controversial bill on constitutional grounds, it's constitutionally unfounded. So that's one big reason. And the other big reason is that the adoption of such a requirement would cause and must, would in any event involve the provision of new funds in the budget, which would be, which would be based on both the agency and the development fund. For the establishment of such institutions at this time in Bosnia and Herzegovina there is absolutely no basis or reason, for the fact that the existing agencies, which exist and are already working, many of them have not justified their existence or their work result. Here, we see that the Statistics Agency when you disputed the 2010 Act on the census and when Republika Srpska said – if you do not implement it at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it will be carried out by Republika Srpska. Then you said - it's not an entity's business, it's a state. And when the Statistics Agency did that job, here's not to this day, there's no result, there's nothing to be said or said. If it had done Republika Srpska in its territory, these results would have been reduced and published long ago, or let's say the Federation on its own, in its jurisdiction, in its part, would surely have been published and clocked, completed by today. This is one example of how inefficient the agencies are and how unfounded their existence is, and costing the country's taxpayers dearly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11038	Denis Bećirović, the debate. 93
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11039	So we have heard discussions today about this law that we still need to call for some agreement between political leaders in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I hope that the time of the agreement by cafes, motels, hotels, any individuals, so were they and the leaders of the political parties, forever passed and that we will exclusively stick to the Dayton Peace Agreement, the Constitution and the decision of the Constitutional Court of BiH. Why do I mention the BiH Constitutional Court? For the simple reason that never again in the future of this country will it be possible to discuss state property without respecting the Constitutional Court's ruling. And as far as I'm aware, the BiH Constitutional Court has not made a decision hastily, hastily, but has done well and explained the verdict, and before that, it has also consulted the Venice Commission, which gave its expert and well-founded opinion before the Constitutional Court has concluded what it has concluded when it comes to state property. And that's no longer what the leaders of political parties talked about. This proposal, which was delivered by distinguished colleagues Backović and Mehmedović, is fully based on the Constitution of BiH, the Dayton Peace Agreement and the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Each part of this Law is based on some part of these documents, in particular the BiH Constitution, which is listed in an explanation. It is very important that in this continuity of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the proposings also mention the continuity of ownership, which is fully in line with international law, because the state property of Bosnia and Herzegovina is part of, an integral part of the constitutional characteristics and powers of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is no longer my private opinion, but the opinion of the BiH Constitutional Court. It is a very important fact that the same BiH Constitutional Court has concluded and interrupted the debate in certain academic circles that Bosnia and Herzegovina has external sovereignty, but there is no internal sovereignty. The court has now made it very clear that Bosnia and Herzegovina also has internal sovereignty. And I particularly think it is important that this proposal, and I believe that today this proposal will receive a majority in Parliament, I assume that things stand out that it will not get an entity majority, as a man who has sworn to respect the BiH Constitution, will respect the fact that this law will not be passed because of that entity majority. But here, I see in the smaller bh entity the ruling party is working intensively to do such unilateral things that will also help with this entity vote, but that's something to come. In the light of this Act, counterparts Backović and Mehmedović, it states that entities were established within Bosnia and Herzegovina only in late 1995 and that they do not have their legal predecessors, and therefore cannot be followers of ownership rights over state property. This is a very important thing that the honourable MPs wrote in this Law, it is fully based on the Dayton Peace Agreement and the Constitution. So, the only continuity has Bosnia and Herzegovina and it is undoubtedly written. If he were a constitutionalist in Dayton, and everyone swears to Dayton, he wanted to give someone else continuity he would have done it, but he didn't do it. So there is a state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it has continuity, entities have its place since November 21st or 14th December 95th as part of Bosnia and Herzegovina's internal structure. It's an important thing because it helps us solve this whole situation. I therefore expect that for the beginning we at least send a message that most of the generals in this House will support this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11040	Thank you very much. Zaim Backović, debate. Here you go. 94
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11041	Given that I am one of the promoters, I will try only a few sentences very briefly, and regarding something that we forget when we talk about many issues, as we just did at the previous point, that within all reforms, and also in the context of amending or passing laws, we will not be able to go towards the EU unless we define, legally frame what is state property. From what my colleague Kožul said, but he said things that belong to the state in all countries, infrastructures, both rail, road, and so on, natural goods, among other things and forests. Well, you can't go into your own woods, you don't get a chance to cut down a tree unless the state determines that the memory is allowed in that space of so many cubics, because it's about... that protects the state and so on, I could count everything now. And whether it's going to be given to managing lower levels of government is now a completely different question, I say to management, I didn't say property. And initially wanting to join the EU without the adoption of this Act, there is no Law on Restitution. And we're the only state, the only one, that's just because it doesn't want to take a step that's not painful, because no property comes out of some space, it's standing there, it's just defining the owner's title, ownership, we can't restitution. And by running, wanting, let's call it a state move as fast as possible, let's take dozens of steps that will cost us a lot when we pass the Restitution Act. Hundreds of companies in the restitution are now privatised in the process of returning to the original owners, the legislation of the Republika Srpska and the Federation, because we wanted to do so, and we did not want to bring what is the basis. Just now, Nikola mentioned that this is on land owned by the Orthodox Church. We can do so and Skenderija is located on land owned by the Islamic religious community, we can, but we can't talk about anything because local communities,...the law, have returned and assigned property to someone. I don't speak it religiously, but they came back and how they got used to it. That is why we need to understand that this law will be one of the crucial conditions for EU accession. Read what happened in Croatia when it was supposed to pass the Law on State Property and Restitution, last time I talked about it here, that the stone on the islands was being returned, the stone. We will have to pass this Law and why we are making a farce out of something without which we cannot allow citizens of this country to make further progress so that the state knows what it has, that it can fertilize the underlying capital through what it has. We forget that even the state advocates, the way, I'm paving the way to make way, today entities also rule the team, no matter who it is, it does what they do. And the people are sinking.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11042	Time. ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11043	More and more. Thank you, Lady Krišto, for warning me on time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11044	Thank you, too, for your understanding. Nikola Lovrinović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11045	Thank you. So, and I'm a member of the Constitutional Commission, I've been abstentioned. I was restrained because I wasn't sure how to handle myself in this situation. So this is the topic that 95 needs to solve, and I don't think it's the way to solve it. So a man here, uh, a good idea I don't know how to show himself about her at a given moment and help her be watched, and yes, to get back to her goal, to be watchful as she actually imagined. In fact, as a member of the NATO Committee, I have often encountered issues of state property, or one that needs to activate our MAP, ways of recording, so often this word state property is the word state. I'd really like someone to explain to me here sometime, which means state. Is it then the municipality of a para-state institution, is it a canton of a para-state institution, is it an entity of a para-state institution? So it's just the state of us, we're just the state here. So, if we're the only ones who do that and everything, then it's the state, and if that's how the community operates, then it's not the state. So obviously there are different approaches and ways of solving and I'm in favour of getting rid of it, and Mr Špirić said how much effort this or that nature has put in so far to solve. So I'm inclined to let this subject we talked about not get rid of it, but give it a chance, so I'd suggest one conclusion. Therefore, the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly is asking the Council of Ministers to continue its activities in the construction of the Law on the Use and Management of State Property and the same instructions in parliamentary procedure by the end of 2016 at the latest. So this would be a proposal for a conclusion, so let's see, and what it's like... to do it to institutions... to some initiatives... maybe here we have some solutions that just cause disputes to us, not to offer solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11046	Thank you very much. Šemsudin Mehmedović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11047	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Here, I'll be very brief on behalf of you, as one of the promoters. Namely, the debate on this Law takes place in the atmosphere, as my colleague Nikola Lovrinović would say, in the atmosphere of the previous two laws, and it may not be good because much anxiety has been introduced, especially when it comes to constitutional law and the previous two laws, and here is this law that is concerned. However, it is also good to see actually how principled we are in our discussions, because you know when it suits us is something constitutional when it doesn't suit us, etc. So, it's just the thing that we're looking at these things from. Therefore, here is one attempt by me and my colleagues, Backović, to open the story of state property. And whether we've suggested solutions in an adequate way or not, that's now a matter of discussion. But in any case, I think we've been keeping quiet about this matter and this case for a long time, and I think Bosnia and Herzegovina is going towards Euro-Atlantic integrations in which it will have to solve this issue and what is inevitable. According to this, counterpart Nikola Lovrinovć well noted that municipalities have state property in their own way, and we do not have equal access there. This law is exactly in that direction that we have a uniform approach. We should not solve this law, or define the availability, management, but only management, to have a uniform approach, uniform access to state property in the territory of all Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of course, whether or not we have succeeded, it might be good to have a better quality, at a professional level, public debate on this matter, and of course to encourage political leaders to discuss these issues. Because, let's remember a few years ago there were a lot of political 96 agreements, at least trying to get rid of, here's state property and changes to the Constitution, implementation of Sejdic-Finci judgments, etc. But it seems to me that here's the last year, maybe more, we don't even have a shot. Well, if this debate on state property will also encourage our leaders to start talks on these key issues, and changes to the Constitution, and implementation, and resolution of state property, and, of course, in the context of this and militaryly inoperable property, then the two of us as legislators would be happy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11048	Thank you very much. Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11049	I just want to explain for a little while. Mr. Lovrinović, they're not parastates of course not municipalities, not cantons, not entities, but neither are states. So no, they're not states either. Therefore, we must pass the roof law, the property law at the state level. And then allow them to do what they belong to, to manage, yes, I beg you to open, you have a translation of the Law.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11050	In Croatian.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11051	Take, not this Act in Croatian, this Law, we, the two of us, will easily translate Croatian, but open the Republic of Croatia, open the Ministry, and you will see the law there, and you will see the translation of German law. No, no, so you'll see the translation, you understand that language, it's in Croatian, you understand it well, what state property is and how and how it gives way to lower regions, provinces, and what we call municipalities. So we should still talk about something that's going to be our condition, and it's not a joke, we're playing with the survival of citizens in this country, an economic survival. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11052	Predrag Kožul, correction of the wrong assumption.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11053	Well, here it is, very briefly to the legislators of the law on what they said. And I'm in favour of a uniform approach to state property management. It is absolutely clear and it is a constructive idea, but this Law does not offer a uniform approach to state property management, but offers a very vague and foggy approach, as it is, management of state property. So, in Europe, we certainly won't, either, based on the law which, in some of its provisions, and very impromptu and very short, proposes to delete a series of legal acts already carried out. We will not go to Europe with a law that touches the property that is, as it says, given in any way in the past time to the management of persons, not only to legal persons, but also to persons of private character. So we can't go into a matter like this that I can only agree to do with a rather large delay, and I say not in a uniform way, but this offers a very foggy approach to this matter. And that is why perhaps from all these discussions, this conclusion, the proposal of my colleague Lovrinović's conclusion, is in the wake of a solution to the possible problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11054	Thank you very much. Nikola Lovrinović, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11055	My colleagues to Backović. So, it is that Croatia has counties like we do, but it is God that we are close to a solution so that we can just rewrite everything that is written there. And the second quote that my colleague used, that municipalities as local units of administration, self-government, so at least in the Federation as far as I know, were returning property to religious communities and others, I, as far as I know, made only a decision to give for use, because there is no Law on restitution. So they couldn't make other kinds of decisions, as far as I know.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11056	Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11057	I'll krenuće with Mr. Lovrinović. I'll tell you right away. From here to 400 meters you have returned to the Franciscans, made home. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I did the crime, I signed the return, to help you out a little bit. Fra Petar was my personal friend. I did it, too. It's good, I said, I got it back. You have been returned to the Orthodox Church, where the store Nicholas is located. You have Islamic religious, don't talk about it. They were returning local communities, not just to management, but to return to full property.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11059	On use.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11060	No, it's in full possession, property. And secondly, colleagues of Kožul, the problem is the following nature, which we have done to dissipate and what we will have to return and the team put financial burdens on the state in advance when the Restitution Act is passed. Look only at all the places where the privatisation was made, look, and to whom it belongs. Are we going to take the privatisation, maybe the only one in the region of the state or what's called the post-socialist, post-Communist period, to be some year, let's say 1900, I don't know, 80. That's all they'd do to me. Montenegro is the state that has taken it since 1945. And she took the youngest period. Serbia has taken since 1914, Croatia and before. And I'm livingly curious about how we're going to return the undisputed private property? Thank you. 98
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11061	Thank you very much. I don't see any reports at the moment. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Moving to point nine, Ad. Nine. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Associations and Foundations of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading) The draft law was submitted in procedure 30.12.2015. The legislative sector delivered its opinion on the consistency of the draft law as set out in Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the Uniform Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which has been established that it is not fully in line with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. For this reason, the College of the House decided to ask the applicant to correct the observed shortcomings in the Bill proposal. On 28 January 2016, the Proposer, the Council of Ministers of BiH, submitted a request for a revision of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Associations and Foundations of BiH. The Constitutional Legal Commission provided the relevant information on 02.02.2016. Opinion on the compliance of the bill with the BiH Constitution and the Bosnia and Herzegovina legal system. I'm opening a debate. I don't see any reports. I'm closing the debate. We're moving to point 10, Ad. Ten. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Committee for Gender Equality of the PSBiH House of Representatives (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11064	Thank you. I, on behalf of the promoter, want to explain this law. neime, I would like to say that the sub-representation of women in Bosnia and Herzegovina's legislative and executive authorities is very high. It is something that this Commission is constantly dealing with, and constantly points to discrimination against women in the political representation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's interests, both on the international and domestic political scene. The harmonisation of the Law at all levels of Bosnia and Herzegovina's government with 99 Law on Gender Equality, and the establishment of a mechanism to increase the number of women in the legislative and executive authorities, through amendments to electoral legislation regulating the establishment of the executive body, was only partially implemented by amending Bosnia and Herzegovina's law in 2013. You remember when from 33% to 40%. Despite our efforts to repair the situation in the legislative bodies, we have an average of about 20% of women, while the executive authority is somewhere around 10%. So this is something that's really... On this occasion, I would like to stress that women's representation in the Council of Ministers has been since '97. In 2014, there were only 4 women, and the chairman of the Council of Ministers was never a woman, nor was the ministerial assistant a woman, the assistant chairman of the Council of Ministers. Are we 10 women represented by the Council of Ministers as deputy ministers? So these are indicators that say that indeed women are neglected, i.e. sub-represented by legislative and executive authorities. In short, this bill, proposed by us, provides for at least 40% of women, i.e. both sexes, to be represented in the Council of Ministers, which means that at least 4 ministers should be appointed. So far, two women have been most women in the BiH Council of Ministers, which is the case now, so it would double the number... If our proposal for this provision is accepted, it would be applied in the next general elections, so from 2018. takoċe, it is an important provision under which this ratio must exist throughout the term of office, the Council of Ministers' term of office. I hope that our example will go to lower levels of government, so that all governments will be formed in a way that ensures gender equality. I'll remind you that at lower levels, we have one discrimination. So, of the 163 executive functions performed by governments, 24 are women and 139 are men. It is also worrying that in certain cantons we do not have a single woman present. So that's where the Zenic-Doboj canton and the Herzegovic-Neretva canton are headed, where we don't have any women present in the governments. Then we have, one woman in four cantons, two in three cantons, and we have four in one canton, or in the government of the Sarajevo Canton. So all of this points to the truly neglected presence of women in the executive and legislative power. On this occasion I would also like to point out that we have received a large number of letters of support, 58 letters of support have come and all of you MPs so I think you have received a large number of letters of support and here I am to these associations and to all those who have given thanks. Thank you very much. Here, that would be brief on this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11065	Thank you. Damir Arnaut, the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11066	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Mr Isaković clearly explained the bill proposal on behalf of the promoter, i.e. the Commission for Gender Equality, but I can also confirm on behalf of the SBB that the SBB will absolutely support this proposal, and I call on all colleagues to join in this. If you remember, Mr. Isaković and I opened this issue in March of last year when the Council of Ministers' meeting was confirmed, when we pointed to the fact that a member of the 20th existing Law is already making a commitment, and this will make it impossible for any co-operation that does not have at least 40% of the less represented sex, not only in the Council of Ministers, but at all levels, or in all executive bodies in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, this is SBB's policy since the elections, which is a policy that the SBB is, and I congratulate 100 colleagues Isaković on the Commission's exceptional success in achieving gender equality, on implementing SBB's policy through this Commission in achieving gender equality, and so I can say that the SBB gives exceptional support to the Sarajevo Open Centre initiative, which is addressed to the Commission for Amendments to the BiH Election Law. I hope that the Commission will respect these suggestions, and in particular to adopt amendments and supplement the Election Law in two segments. One to change lists for all legislative authorities, so that at least 50% of women and 50% of men, or 50% of both sexes, and in turn, especially in the first eight places on the list that are really most important, and as we know, the Electoral Law is as unspeakable as it is, that we don't even have 40% in those first eight places, so that in the event of giving up the term of office of one MP, or delegate, or any other representative in any legislative body, the replacement is from the order of the less-represented sex in that body. I am taking this opportunity, given that this is an identical topic, to appeal to the members of this Commission for amendments and additions to the Electoral Law to take into account the recommendations of the Sarajevo Open Centre, and that at least because I see that there are not many issues, at least to include it, so that in combination with this Bill really Bosnia and Herzegovina joins the Western European countries, when it comes to gender equality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11067	Thank you very much. Correction of the wrong quote, Hanko Vajzović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11068	Thank you very much. I don't know if it's a very wrong quote, but we don't have much choice here to answer. I just wanted to join the cards for this move, actually for theoretical support for gender equality coming from the SBB, whose club has four men sitting in. I sincerely hope to apply this, what they stand for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11069	Thank you. Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11070	Dear colleagues Vajzović, of course correcting the wrong quote. So, I was just talking about this, and I appealed to the Committee for Amendments and Amendments of the Election Law to sort out the lists. The electoral law is what it is, the lists are what they are, and what I've appealed to would lead to a change of heart. And when you mention clubs, then I'll point to the DF Club in the Federal Parliament that only has four women of your 14 MPs in the Federal Parliament, while the SBB Club in the Federal Parliament, sitting in it, of 16 MPs, 7 is a woman. So don't, I just warned Mr. Bećirović, if you're not, if you're in a glass shop, don't throw stones, because you can break something that belongs to you. Thank you. 101
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11071	Thank you very much. Nikola Lovrinović, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11072	Well, nothing, I just wanted to, because it's been said that so far it's not possible, the correction is an incorrect allegation, the HDZ has already fulfilled it before the Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11073	Thank you very much. Aleksandra Pandurević, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11074	I thank the chairman. Here, my colleague Lovrinović boasted himself and I thought I'd commend HDZ, I must admit, and the SNSD has a slightly more open attitude towards women, let's say from the party I represent, but that's all part, part and culture, and traditions, and the party's commitment. Of course we support this proposal, with the fact that I have to admit that there's one position here that I'm content with. And this is that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly will refuse to confirm the appointment of a Council of Ministers which does not reflect equal representation. Can we do that... The Council of Ministers Act? Can we order a future council to vote? So can we in every law say, uh, the House of Representatives will never change this law again? I think, I suggest to the Proposer, here, really don't, so it's no problem for me to make a softer version here in this sentence to make it up. You'll have our support, but this needs to change. In which way I have no idea now, but here, we'll try to think and find solutions. Of course, I also support the greater participation of women through lists, but I Bogamin't see that the order on the lists is particularly important in whether 1,3,5, the number of votes is important when the lists are open and there are no, believe me, I mean, people with 15 positions on the list go through, they break into place number one. Work, machinery on the ground, we all know how to do election campaigns, that's what brings votes. Well, if we're already thinking about the increased number of women's participations there are other models, there's to say 40% of women have to be, so there's also some positive discrimination in favour of women. So to make sure that, let's say on the compensation lists, they can only be women. But then some colleagues wouldn't be sitting here, would they? Or that in position number one of the compensation lists there must be a woman. So it's all some sort of solution. I appreciate the good intentions, and it is certain that we should have a lot more women active in politics, because I think they are more valuable, more loyal than men. I wish we had a lot more colleagues here, no intention of really insulting any of our colleagues, but don't make our solutions theoretical. Let's make a solution that will bring a practical result. Let's go on that trail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11075	Here's the correction of the wrong quote, Zaim Backović. 102
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11076	With my colleague's proposals from Parliament, men will find themselves in an uninvited position, very invisible. But then I would, no, no, this is, this is no joke, but you have one situation. Analysis says 56% of women, 44% of men, went to the polls. How is it possible that 56% of women vote for such a small number of women? That's very interesting. And when the Party of Women formed, it collapsed here in Sarajevo, they say, in the first election. Women nowhere, and they only had women on the list. Therefore, there must be a completely different approach. But really, you've made a good point, it's from the middle, and from the education, and from the customs and from, it's from everything. And it needs to be broken. So I stand absolutely for equality, and I fully support that at least the fifti-fifti is 50-50%, because the number of women in Bosnia and Herzegovina is higher than men. And they wear more on their beds than men in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's true. But they also leave Bosnia and Herzegovina much more. I don't know if you know that, too. A lot more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11077	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Borjan Krišto, the chairman of the House. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11078	Thank you very much. Here, I listened carefully, and so I welcome some of our Committee on Gender Equality in terms of amending the BiH Council of Ministers' Law. However, we must bear in mind that this is a systematic law and we must be serious, although I will also add that I am absolutely not burdened by it, nor as a woman, as distinguished colleague Aleksandra Pandurević said, nor, as such, here is a representative who comes from one political option. We don't need this law to have women, I don't know, both in legislation and in executive bodies, and in other positions, of course, in party bodies. But here, I respect that possibility of even trying to get some kind of gender equality in some legal way. However, by reading these provisions, I am concerned with some things in this Law. So it is precisely a provision that the distinguished colleague referred to that the Parliamentary House would refuse to confirm the appointment of the Council of Ministers unless gender equality is reflected. I, from the point of view of this, ask the question of the constitutionality of this provision. Therefore, I would go with the proposal, with respect, and we know that there are many more reasons for amending this law because of harmonising with other laws, we, in fact, asked the Council of Ministers' opinion when we received this bill, which we did not get. And today, as the debate is being held on this Act, I would like to go with the proposal of one conclusion, that the House of Representatives, in the context of the debate on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, adopts the following conclusion – a statement on this Act is postponed until the Council of Ministers delivers its opinion on the Law in question. I think it would be a good thing if we had time to think, in a way, and get the opinion of the institution, so that the Council of Ministers could, in some ways, define it, be systematic, enforceable, that the provisions are clear, not specific, but determined that they can be implemented and that everyone is simply satisfied with it. I don't think it's necessary for anyone to bring something in and make a mess of it when it comes to the functioning of the executive authority and only the constitution. Thank you very much. 103
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11079	Thank you. Mr. Momčilo Novaković, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11080	Thank you very much. So I join all those who think, advocate and try to provide in bodies, institutions, the more equal, the greater the number, or the more equal the relationship between sexes. Part of the discussion was taken from me by the chairman, Mrs. Krišto, since I consider certain provisions here very, very questionable from the position of the Constitution. Namely, there is a practice in Bosnia and Herzegovina that fences have been set, when it comes to forming both the government and the Council of Ministers, defined, so we know that the entity constitutions have been defined, the Constitution of the Federation that 8 ministers are from the order of the Bosniak people, 5 in the order of the Serbian people, 3 in the order of the Serbian people, that the Constitution of Republika Srpska said, following the Constitutional Court's decision on the constitutionality of the people, that 8, up to 8 ministers from the order of the Serb people, 5 in the order of the Bosniak people and 3 in the order of the Croatian people. The BiH constitution has defined what it must look like when it comes to the composition of the Council of Ministers. This area and in this way, by my deep conviction, this is only possible to regulate by the Constitution, not by the law. But come on, that's what we are, I thought I'd suggest so much that we plead today, but I didn't mean for... The Council of Ministers, rather than any other institution, but here I support Mrs Krišto proposal to put in charge of the Council of Ministers to bring him in, I assume that he will carry out specific consultations before we come forward. I repeat, everything is fine, all our efforts and I welcome our Commission's insistence to help resolve this problem, but I am afraid that this member, which I was talking about, can be very controversial with the position of the Constitution and I would not like to vote for something that will later turn out to be constitutionally unfounded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11081	Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11082	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Article 112 Rules of Procedure (2) concerning your proposal for a conclusion. I really don't see a business opportunity for Dom to do it. Rule 112 (2) of the Rules of Procedure makes it very clear – the debate in the first reading, and we are now having a debate in the first reading, whether it ends with the adoption or refusal of the bill. The only thing we can do as a House is in accordance with Article 112(5), that the House may conclude that within 30 days, the competent Commission shall conduct a public debate on the draft law. So, I, I am sorry to point out this, but the Rules of Procedure simply do not allow your proposal to be concluded, if you would like to modify it to comply with the position of (5) of this member, but in particular taking into account the fact that the Council of Ministers has clearly been asked for an opinion and has not been delivered. Why, then, given that the Council of Ministers has therefore received an opinion and has not delivered it, that we are now still violating our Rules of Procedure to give them time. So I think Article 112 is very clear on this. If you want to modify according to attitude (5) you may want to support it, but this is difficult. Thank you. 104
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11083	Thank you very much. Here, I'll comment right away. So, I think we've got a chance, according to the Rules of Procedure. My proposal for a conclusion went in a way that we didn't conclude the debate today. So we don't close the debate, we make a conclusion, and that means everything that we do in conclusion, anything that isn't done by the Rules of Procedure, or if it's arranged in some way, the House can decide its conclusion. Therefore, we are the ones here who decide both in accordance with the Rules of Procedure or in some other way. So the proposal for a conclusion was delivered at this point, my suggestion is not to conclude the debate but to adopt the conclusion. Mirsad Isaković, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11084	Oh, I'm bound to say one thing here. This Parliament passed the Law on Gender Equality, and Article 20. The law on gender equality in Bosnia and Herzegovina has been established that state bodies at all levels of government and local self-government, including legislative, executive and judicial authorities, will ensure and promote gender equality and representation in governance, decision-making and representation processes, and that gender equality exists when at least 40% of these bodies are represented. Otherwise, there is discrimination. So all that we've been saying, this should have already been applied, because this, and the Council of Ministers and all these were supposed to apply. What is important here, and I would like to point out, is that the adoption of our proposal would also respect Recommendation No 3 of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, which would be recognised as a good step on our country's path towards European integration. So that's another additional element that would be. Thank you very much, here's the deal.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11085	Senad Šepić, the debate. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11086	Madam Chairman, so here's the short one. Part of what I wanted to say, to make a bigger picture, has already been said by the last speaker, but here I support this Law and generally support this approach that goes in the direction of building a society of such equal opportunities and full equality in every sense. Since this is the first reading, we've heard a lot of these proposals, so I suggest that today, there are dilemmas about what needs to be fixed further, but today we support this law in the first reading and prepare ourselves until the second reading, so with all these ideas that we've heard here today and do everything we can to get the best possible final solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11087	Thank you. I don't see any more reports. In line with the proposal that I made to the conclusion I made, I would go in the direction that we are not closing the hearing at this point, so I would like to make a proposal for a conclusion, so in the context of this debate, which I have proposed, to postpone the debate. So, in that 105 case, when we later declare the agenda, this conclusion would be practically legal, so we wouldn't plead. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11088	... let's make a statement when we vote on all the points of the agenda. Not now, not now.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11089	Well, we don't have to, we don't, we just don't close the debate right now. So we're going to point 11, Ad. 11. Report from the Joint Commission on both homes to achieve the same text of the Asylum Act (proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-12/15, of 06/08/2015) The Asylum Act was adopted at the 21st session of the House of Representatives, held on 10.12.2015 and at the 13th session of the House of People, held on 30.12.2015. The law was adopted in a different text in homes, and a Joint Commission was formed for both homes to achieve the same text of the Asylum Act. He appointed the House of Nations to the Joint Committee of Envoys Halid Genjac, Ljilju Zovko and Dark Babalj, and the House of Representatives of Damir Arnaut, Nikola Lovrinović and Momčilo Novaković. The Joint Committee delivered the Report 02.02.2016. The commission reached an agreement on the same text of the Asylum Act, as it was adopted in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I'm opening a debate on the report. Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11091	Thank you. Here, we have just finished and it seems we have not concluded a debate on amendments to the Council of Ministers' Law aimed at gender equality in all executive bodies in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Committee for the Consensus of the text The proposal for a Law on Asylum yesterday considered the text adopted by this House with my three amendments and the text of the People's House without those three amendments. First, all three of my amendments as well as the previous seven amendments, which were adopted on the Joint Commission on Human Rights, I literally wrote from word to word from the Law of the Republic of Croatia which treats this area. The Law entered into force in Croatia in July 2015, so two years after the country joined the EU. There is no doubt, therefore, that this Law adopts the best practice of the EU. The Ministry of Security, in its Opinion to the Commission, this Joint Text Consensus, which my colleague Genjac even read at the Commission's session yesterday, stated that their proposal adopted by the House of Peoples offers a minimum standard of protection based on gender and gender identity, and that my amendment, adopted by the House of Representatives, with a large majority here, and previously implemented in the same form by the Republic of Croatia in its legislation, offers a wider level of protection based on gender and gender identity. To be clear, the Minister of Security in his Report to the Commission on 106 Tex alignment explicitly stated that he prefers minimum protection measures in relation to broader measures of gender-related protection and gender-related identity, which my amendments envisioned. And I warned to the Commission yesterday, that when protection is based on gender and gender identity, the reserve should take into account the opinion of the BiH Minister of Security, Mr. Mektić, especially since he advocates minimum protection on this basis in this opinion, and given that the same minister has called him publicly at a press conference of some journalists, again, for the second time today – silicones, questioning his authority and credibility in terms of gender and gender-related identity protection. And to my astonishment, to my great regret, to this reminder that Minister Mektić is referring to female members, and that he may not be credible about proposing a narrow level of protection from the wider level that I have suggested, said Mr Momčilo Novaković with the next comment, here I quote him, so why is it known that our minister, Mektić, is a woman lover? I've had...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11092	Please, Your Honor, I'd like you to follow the agenda. We have a report from the Joint Committee on an effort to achieve the consent of the Asylum Act. This still went beyond measure.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11093	I'm talking, no, no, I'm talking about the report. Given that it's working, considering that...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11094	Please, the report meant amendments to one House, or the adoption of the Law in one House in one text, in another. Tell us what was relevant, what was the subject of the consent, or if you have any objections to the Report.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11095	Well, so what was the subject of consent, the House of Representatives has adopted my amendment that offers a broader level of protection based on gender and gender identity, I say that already, please don't limit me, you know very well that I'm within the agenda. The home of the people adopted what Minister Mektić asked for, and that is a narrow level of protection. I pointed out yesterday to the Commission, and I believe it is my obligation to inform the House, because it is the Commission of this House, so if I say anything to the Commission, it is my obligation to meet the rest of this House what was happening on the Commission. It's not an independent commission, it's the House Commission. So, I am merely informing the rest of the House, given that this House has given me confidence that I am present on behalf of that Commission, i.e. in that Commission. So, please, let me finish. So, as far as the Commission's report is concerned, I'm getting to know the rest of the House about what's been going on on on the Commission. Is that wrong, is that out of order? Well, it's not an independent commission. I warned Mr. Novaković about the violation of the Code and Rules of Procedure, not only of women present,... according to 51% of Bosnia and Herzegovina's population. Unfortunately, none of the other members of the Commission joined me in condemning Mr. Novaković, all of them just dropped their heads. I then realized that the broad protection measures based on gender and gender identity, which I have proposed and adopted by this House, seem not possible in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that the other members of the Commission will opt for minimum protection measures based on gender and gender identity, proposed by Mr Mektić, who requested... 107
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11096	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11097	Woman, Mr. Dragan Mektić. Unfortunately for me, at that session yesterday, I realized that we are now decades behind Croatia and Serbia, at least when it comes to gender equality. Behind Croatia, because a literally prescribed member of their law offers wider protection measures and accepts Mr. Mektić's proposal for minimum gender-based protection. And behind Serbia because when the minister insults journalists with sexist comments there, I dare even say softer than Mektic's, the man is no longer a minister tomorrow, and we accept his suggestions and even speak of him as a lover of women. It's a shame.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11098	Thank you. Your Honor, you certainly had the right to say as a member of the Committee and, of course, any representative, but for the rapporteur in front of this commission Nikola Lovrinović was ordered. Momčilo Novaković, Damir Arnaut, injured his rules of procedure. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11099	Mr. Lovrinović, I wanted him to be the first, but he wasn't there. And you saw he wasn't there. I waited for him to pick up, but he wasn't in the O.R.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11100	Momčilo Novaković, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11101	I thank the chairman. Well, first of all, I think we're making a completely wrong approach to this agenda point. A colleague Arnaut voted in favour of the harmonised text here today, which is the text adopted by the House of Peoples. By voting for this text, I think this further debate is losing all meaning. So we have before us the text that adopted the House of Nations and which should now be adopted in both homes, both the House of Nations and here. And when it is adopted then the Law will be passed, so is the business order. As far as these picanterias were concerned by an esteemed colleague, I wouldn't really talk about it. I made a joke, and then I said... I think I made a little joke about it, and I thought my colleague Arnaut was joking in his own little recognizable way, and he's been joking with us for a year, and on the Commission and on the House, so I thought he was making a joke, too, and I was making a joke, without intent, of course, to insult neither Mr. Mektić, nor Mr. Arnaut, and especially not to insult any member of the nicer sex. Even if I really offended someone, I certainly didn't insult any of them, I may have offended Mr. Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11102	Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegations. 108
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11103	Of course I supported the bill after the amendments were not adopted. We better have an asylum law like that than none. And as for your comment on picanteria, watch out, picanteria by definition is something, is it, what happens in the hall, outside of the official debate, etc. I wouldn't laugh at that ridiculous joke then, but, well, at least she wouldn't have entered the official record. So, you have officially tried to joke at a session of the committee of this House and the House of the Peoples of the Joint Commission on text alignment in one way that really doesn't belong in the XXI century. So these jokes are from the XIX century and before. If you don't want to at least get into the 20th century, go to the XX, and the XX were inappropriate. So, as far as this is concerned, is that I've been joking with you for a year and something, so watch out for something, my two bill proposals have been passed in this House, and one has come into effect and the savings are 3 and a few million marks. And you've been recycling the laws since 3-4 mandates, I don't know how long you've been in this Parliamentary Assembly and obviously long enough not to realize that the world outside of these benches has changed and that it's no longer acceptable to joke in this way based on sex. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11104	Thank you very much. Nikola Lovrinović, debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11105	Well, I'm sorry, so I thought that earlier point would still take a while, so I was out, but now that's one part of it being said, which happened on that Committee for Harmonization of the text of the Asylum Act. In fact, I wouldn't argue like this if we were having a discussion, we were even on that Committee and constructive, so we heard the opinion. Mr Arnaut, therefore, was also a member of the Committee, so we were in a bit of an awkward situation whether we should discuss with him as a man who proposed amendments or as a member of the Committee, because we had no more need in the ad hoc commission to call anyone on behalf of the promoter. So all we had to do was figure out what we could work out. So, we didn't even say that the bad amendments, none, until the end, are bad, I silence the technical conditions that Bosnia and Herzegovina currently has, when it comes to the first two amendments, we simply don't. And they are, by our knowledge, and my own personal, inapplicable, then they would question law enforcement. That's how we got the information. And there's a problem that I've brought to the Constitutional Commission, and even on this ad hoc commission, that when we have in the debate laws and when colleagues or colleagues file amendments, the amendment often doesn't follow the procedure that the law does. So we get into a situation where the amendment is passed without having an opinion, so let's just say at worst, or at best, the promoter himself, what he thinks about these amendments. So we happen to have the amendment pass. It's just, here's when we get into a situation, then we're completely into matter and we see that we've done something that might be inconclusive. People tell us we can't do that, we can't make a deal with every special lecturer, the Council of Ministers doesn't have that kind of technique. We have a law on public procurement that speaks differently. And we may not have thought about it at the time, perhaps it seemed to be a good solution from, as Mr Arnaut said, from a country already a member of the EU. Of course, but she has the infrastructure to track it. 109 So we decided how we decided and indeed it is Mr. and Arnaut and we all unanimously supported the Law, we did not accept the amendments by the majority, therefore, of the votes that you received in the Report. Here, we have nothing but to support our report and move on.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11106	Thank you very much. I don't see any more reports. But here's what we're gonna do. Since we're somewhere on the agenda, the plan is to work for another hour and we'll continue the session tomorrow. And now we're going to see here in about an hour, because we have, and the other MPs have their own obligations, so we're going to... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] No, here in our session you don't even know what points are important, or anything, you've had all the objections to me restricting the debate. My every restriction on the debate has proved justified, read the provision of Article 27(f) and today it is quite justified and, of course, all the previous points. Here, at this point, I'm closing the debate at point 11. We're going to point 12, Ad. 12. Report on the impact review carried out on the theme "Command Management of Customs Terminals", material of BiH Institutions Audit Office
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11109	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. I believe this is a very important question, among other things and security, and according to so far it seems to be a major problem. So I think I'm going to be a little 5 minutes, but here you are going to interrupt me in time, because there are a lot of, a lot of questions about this auditory 110 report, and I'm not sure there's anyone here who could explain anything, it would be important to have. Since I also asked a question a month ago about this, about customs terminals and border crossings, I didn't get an answer, and we all know, probably, or many at least know, what state border crossings are in, especially customs terminals. So, we can learn a lot from this report, but also, I say, what it means is that regulations and implementing acts that regulate the management and functioning of customs terminals are not based on carried out analyses of efficiency and economics, and then the establishment and acquisition of customs terminals is not based on an analysis of needs and justification. A lot of questions as to what that even means. Excuse me?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11110	... They ask, so we tell them like this... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11111	It seemed a little extra... In addition to this particular owner of customs terminals, we know that there are both private and other, their obligations to the BiH Direct Taxation Authority do not settle properly, etc. Well, then these findings, therefore, find the auditors who say – regulations and implementing acts leave room for free interpretations and different actions, starting from the very establishment of customs terminals, the acquisition of capacity conditions, so the management of customs terminals takes place in different organisational units, and therefore, there is no precise definition of who is responsible for the situation as it is, for monitoring the whole process, and then some of the basic conditions prescribed for customs terminals, as well as certain conditions agreed by individual contracts, are different practices in the application of the rules. Mostly a huge debt for which no one is responsible, and it seems to leave one very serious space for possible corruption, for certainly various irregularities and one biased relationship between those who run these matters. So the question of practical responsibility is whether it can be that it's not personal, that even after a cup of tea it's Kemal, is it really about, excuse me, if it's possible for me to ask from this place to expose this. Anyway, I wanted to warn you that this is an important issue and a security issue, especially for those terminals located at the border crossings, that there's a lot of stuff going on, I don't know if anyone, since the I.D.'s got to the owner and the border crossings and these terminals, is then asking what's going on there. I think I'm missing responsibility. The Director of the Directorate for indirect taxation is also the President of the Commission for Integrated Border Management, and then it is even more responsible, probably because there are some activities in this regard. Mostly I'm afraid there's no responsibility, I'm afraid there's a lot going on here, a lot of money, millions of people are being mentioned, someone's getting paid, there's a lot of debt, and the situation at the terminals and at the border crossings is catastrophic, especially...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11112	It's time, co-worker.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11113	at terminals where people don't have toilets, or any conditions. For these reasons, I asked how many inputs are charged for terminals and how much is invested in them so it wouldn't be like this. Thank you. 111
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11114	Thank you, too. Nenad Lalić, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11115	The Honorable Chairman, deputies, distinguished ministers, deputy minister, fellow MPs and others present. Here, and I will practically try to be brief and in two examples, which I have noticed, I will draw attention to that it is possible to improve the existing situation in the indirect taxation administration that we know is a very responsible and complex system and. which is important for the economic sustainability of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Republika Srpska. Whoever read the careful audit report realized that the revision had done a concrete report and identified problems in the management of customs terminals, which we will specifically and look back on, I would not, of course, convince this text and the tables that we have all contributed to, there is clearly everything visible, but here I would pay attention to two things from the region from which I come. For example, when it comes to table reviews, we see that the relationship dominates the rental of customs terminals from private institutions, which in future time should find a way to get into possession of its own terminals by building or by some other relationship, which says a colleague all of this creates a possibility for some manipulation. But for example, here in Doboj we had here we see a case where for some reason a contract with an existing terminal was broken because of some bad conditions, which were acceptable in some previous period, and a contract with a new institution that is practically approaching the customs base, or the Tešanj terminal on a route less than 15 km, which is illogical for all of us. We know that a customs terminal can serve several customs crossings, especially if there is no dynamic movement of goods and services. And from that, it is evident that significant savings can also be made. And the second case is the Rač customs station in Bijeljina, where it is, were initiatives both local communities and businessmen to take a way to get the customs terminal closer to the city because it is more than 20 km away, and it is illogical to look at it from Serbia's direction before the customs crossing, so that the first customs duty is done so that it enters practically Bosnia and Herzegovina, which increases the costs especially for the exporters of goods that have to go to Rač, it is about 20 and a few miles to return, and if they do not go to Serbia they have to re-enter the city and other border crossings. So there must be room to improve the existing situation in the management of customs terminals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11116	Thank you. Predrag Kožul, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11117	So here, for the full information from the Committee on Finance and Budget, which has also proposed this conclusion that you have read, I must say that the Committee, together with the representatives of the Office for Audit, were also representatives of the Directorate for Indirect Taxation, in particular two ladies who, in this way, indicated that they had taken very seriously all those recommendations that were very well defined in the Auditing Report and that they were acting on 112 of them, either in the part of the legislation of their regulations different which they had been warned there, were on practical work on the ground. Of course, well-intentioned as we are, we have respected and trusted them all, but we have nevertheless reached this conclusion that within six months, the Committee will be provided with a report on the activities undertaken and planned activities, as well as the Audit Office, and here I am saying, from that very optimistic tone of theirs regarding the implementation of the audit recommendations, we will be in a position to possibly check what happened to these activities within six months.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11118	Thank you very much. I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. I'm going to point 13, Ad. 13. Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "Procurement of personal documents – case study", material of the BiH Institutions Audit Office The report was submitted in procedure 06.01.2016. The responsible Financial and Budget Committee delivered its Opinion on Report 02.02.2016. The commission adopted the Report and referred it to further procedure, and proposed the adoption of the following conclusion: – The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives asks the BiH Council of Ministers and the Agency for Identification, Recording and Exchange of Data to report within 6 months to the Committee for Finance and Budget of the House of Representatives on the planned and undertaken activities to implement the recommendations from the Report, and to familiarise the activities undertaken with the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions. I'm opening a debate. Aleksandra Pandurević, here's the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11120	I thank the chairman. First, the review made up an excellent report which, unfortunately, I have to conclude, just found me in my suspicions that we were here and passed some laws to enable a systematic robbery. What this impact review said came from an idea project and that this idea project was actually an idea to rob citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And you just wonder where you live when we read the answers to the IDDEEA in this report, it was probably done at the time of former management management management. What happened? No answer why only one bidder was invited? IDDEEA has no answer why only Muchlbauer. Why isn't another offer collected? And then they say that some alternative solutions due to the security of the documents should be made to make analyses that are paid, and then without analysis they buy chips, by such an ominous method of assessing that their value is 5-6 marks, it was as the 1.1 euro turned out. Then they say, imagine, I mean it's really that a man smiles, an explanation why we need ID cards that, by the way, we can't use this day or day today, and electronically, they say it will attract 100 million marks of investment. It's written in an idea solution, it says in this report. Well, I'd like to see for these three years, which is the percentage of the 100 million that came in, let's see 113. Then they say, speaking of these chips, that they didn't, IDDEEA had no obligation or ability to provide reliable information about the price of chips because it was classified data. And then that same IDDEEA says that the solution, the chip they bought, is the most economical and qualitative solution. So how do they know when they say in that same answer they didn't have an obligation and they weren't asking about prices? What's still clear here is that we actually built the Muehlbauer building in Banja Luka and that it's included in the price of documents. Then I ask – why didn't we get the technology ourselves, the equipment, build the building, and it stays Bosnia and Herzegovina? Why would we do that to a private person? Who are those private faces we all know. I don't really know, what's scary is that here's the D.A.'s office supposedly, at least in the media we've been reading, two years running an investigation, and it can't end this investigation, and the damage is still being done, the damage to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the damage to all of us. I'm afraid the irreparable damage has already been done, that the whole process, as this quality impact review really describes how the whole process went, and this tells me that we in these institutions had an organized criminal group that robbed us all together, the value of this project is 245 million. It is up to the BiH Prosecutor's Office to resolve this, because today IDDEEA and the Ministry of Civil Affairs are in a very ungrateful situation how to correct this contract, how to fix it, and that the other side, rightly, is not suing them, and the damage has to be corrected. The easiest thing to do is to fix the damage if the judicial institutions, i.e. the investigative institutions in this country, react. Someone robbed us, we need to see who, why, why did we get IDs? It says, it's first and unique, it says in this report, the first and only solution in the world. Well, please, if we're not the first in the world, don't be on ID cards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11121	Denis Bećirović, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11122	Thank you. I have listened very carefully to my dear colleague Pandurević, and I would like as an MP to make it very clear that it would be good for us as Parliament, as a House of Representatives, to try at least one thing to clean up. Here, we have an example, we have allegations of an honourable letter, my suggestion is, so that this doesn't go to the archives, that this issue is not forgotten, but that at least once every three months this report is on the agenda of the House of Representatives, until we get the exact information that this is about, is there anyone's guilt, whose, etc. Therefore, I fully support the proposal to banish this thing and, if this is okay with a colleague of Pandurević, so at least once every three months to make this one of the points of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11123	Thank you very much. Momčilo Novaković, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11124	I'd just like a few more sentences to point out a few things here, a few facts. First of all, we paid the price of this job in a way that instead of 10 marks, as long as it was before, we paid 18 marks, that driver's licenses instead of 40 paid 60 114 marks. And if that's how we created, we citizens, created a budget from which this job could be financed. And if we're looking at who's practically damaged here, we've actually damaged citizens who paid more expensive documents than they did before. Of course, all of this has received legitimacy at the Council of Ministers because the Council of Ministers adopted this Regulation, meaning the prices of documents that later, I say, we have seen what the Review Report says about all this. Not to mention further that there has been a change in the redistribution between entities, entity budgets, Bosnia and Herzegovina's budget, so let's say, by some estimates, Republika Srpska's budget was damaged only in 2013 and 2014, I am talking about Republika Srpska's budget, and I have no information since the data contained in both cantons and the Federation is damaged by 10 million marks. So it's just a budget damaged by 10 million marks. I'm talking again about this whole thing, of course they paid the citizens of this country. Not to go any further, I just wanted to point out the way this whole business is done. The rest of this was seen and seen in this report. I don't know if there's any specific conclusions to be made, since we're all informed from public information funds that the prosecution is conducting an investigation into this. I want to believe the D.A.'s office will do its job unbiasedly without any pressure, so if you want and no pressure from here on out, any conclusions. I would hate to draw some conclusion that the prosecution will later treat as a pressure from Parliament, and that in this way perhaps even on an alibi that does not otherwise have to do in the ordinary procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11125	Thank you very much. Salko Sokolović, debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11126	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Here's a few words, because I also spoke to the Finance and Budget Commission and, here's to not being lonely what Mrs. Pandurević said as a member of the Commission, to give, in a way, support for everything we've talked about on the Commission, and what, here's the presentation of Mrs. Pandurević. This is a classic example of how the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina are being robbed, and it seems to me that we realized it at the moment when we had an audit report on that financial basis. That we have incorporated some conclusions into just our summary opinion and it seems to me that the institutions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina are also in charge of working on this issue, and everyone within their respective competences. And here, that's, let me remind you, it's been a while, but we have poor results. And that's what's incomprehensible to me that it's been so long that here's another revision, but now the impact review, it reminds us of everything that we've realized back then. And here we are again concerned, and it is essentially our task to be concerned, but also to warn the institutions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina within their competences to do some work for which they are responsible and for which they are paid, etc. I'm not even on the Commission, so I'm not going to be here, talking about whether that kind of I.D. was necessary. Obviously not, and we all said that a long time ago, but I can't help but think about it, here's to sharing with you once again what really cut me the most when I read that report, here's the short one, and that's that, meaning the Public Procurement Act has been violated and that one disastrous contract on further realization has been signed. For the first time, it's for the Ginis Book of Records, there's a story that you're paying off on the basis of the planned funds, not on the basis of the 115 that whoever gets the job is going to produce it, so you're going to pay him. And based on these planned funds for the delivery of personal documents in these last two years, 3 million documents were to be paid, 1,900 were delivered, but an advance was paid to something that was not done. And yet, what would have to work intensively for this contract to be annulled in some way is that it stands there specifically, right, that 5 million ID cards and 2 million driver licenses need to be paid in the next period, and all the analysis that's being conducted says we won't need so many IDs. And in that part, the unexposed, or planned means of hiding that part, I will say openly, the crime that is in this part of actually short budget money. And here, as the elected representative in front of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I would ask the institutions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina to speed up this process so that we have results as soon as possible and that we know, in the end, who is responsible for such a misdemeanour that has been committed in one of the institutions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11127	Thank you very much. I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Moving to point 14, Ad. 14. Consideration of Šemsudin Mehmedović's parliamentary initiative at the 21st session, held on 10.12.2015, which reads as follows:, "On the basis of Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH, I submit a parliamentary initiative for the formation of the Committee for the Selection of the Texts of Bosnia and Herzegovina" The House College has appointed a constitutional committee responsible for considering this initiative. The committee responsible delivered its opinion on the initiative on 02.02. The commission adopted the initiative and forwarded it to further procedure. I'm opening a debate. I don't see any reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 15, Ad. 15. Consideration of Denis Bećirović's parliamentary initiative, submitted at the 22nd session, held on 30.12.2015, which reads as follows: "On the basis of Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, I submit a parliamentary initiative in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers to submit, no later than 30 days from the date of adoption of this initiative at the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, a report on attracting foreign direct investment in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2015 with a proposal for measures to improve the policy of attracting foreign investment."
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11130	In the shortest few sentences. So there are definitely a number of issues that, if we have a well-intentioned and constructive approach, there is no reason why we should all disagree to advance some things in Bosnia and Herzegovina. One of these issues is the question of attracting foreign investment. And I think that, on this plan, we as Parliament can also make our contribution, above all in terms of repairing and political climate in the country and certain legal regulations, if necessary in cooperation with certain state agencies dealing with this topic and, of course, in cooperation with all levels of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, here, I want to thank the Commission who unanimously accepted this initiative and I hope that at one of the next sessions we will have this item of the agenda, not so much with the accent in 2015, as with the need to offer us a set of measures to improve things in this area. Foreign investments are definitely not the only thing that can trigger Bosnia and Herzegovina and its economy, but can certainly help the economic recovery of Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially so-called. Greenfield foreign investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11131	Thank you very much. I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. We're moving on to point 16, Ad. 16. Review of Dušanka Majkić's parliamentary initiative submitted on 05.01.2016, which reads: "In accordance with Article 8. The Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH, I am launching a parliamentary initiative to include the agenda of the PSBiH House of Representatives: Analysis of the situation in the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the diplomatic and consular network of BiH." The House College has appointed the Foreign Affairs Committee responsible for considering this initiative. The committee responsible delivered its opinion on the initiative on 03.02.2016. The commission didn't support the initiative. I'm opening a debate. 117 Dušanka Majkić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11133	In short, there's actually not much to say here. So in every assembly of the Parliamentary Assembly, I try to put this issue on the agenda and discuss it. There are many reasons for this and there's a lot of information about what's going on in our DKP network, what's our status at the Foreign Ministry, but we've never been able to put that issue on the agenda. I considered it a team before, here I chaired the Foreign Affairs Commission and that its basic and first jurisdiction was accompanied by the leadership of foreign policy and the BiH Presidency and the Council of Ministers. So, it's amazing, but here I am not except for my vote, none of the members, mostly thanks to one of the members of the Commission who rated it with bad intentions, but it's obvious that something is hiding, and apparently in the last session they didn't allow, so certain people from a particular political party, to put this issue on the agenda. This means there are reasons why it hides on the state of the DKP network and on this issue at all. I thought it would be good, and I was supported by this foreign ministry representative, that the Ministry, but also by certain services of the Presidency in charge of foreign policy, is building a joint material towards the Parliament's Assembly that would serve the appropriate conclusions and repairs of the situation in the area. So far, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH has not been ready to open such a serious issue, and we can only learn about foreign policy from the newspapers. The worse situation is that our foreign minister sees very rarely or almost no meetings of the House of Representatives, so the whole situation takes this seriously. I've been very caught up in this initiative, but as an MP, it's my duty to keep trying in different ways, and I will continue in that sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11134	Thank you very much. I don't see any reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Moving to point 17. Ad. 17. A discussion of Senad Šepić's parliamentary initiative, submitted at the 23rd session, held on 12.01.2016, which reads: "The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives commits the Council of Ministers and other competent institutions to send information to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on the state and phenomena of peer violence and violence to children in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with a proposal for measures" The House College has appointed a Joint Commission on Human Rights responsible for considering this initiative. The committee responsible submitted its opinion on the initiative on 02.02.2016. The commission accepted the initiative and forwarded it to further procedure. takoċe, the Joint Committee adopted the following conclusion and proposed to the House of Representatives its adoption. The conclusion is: – The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives obliges the BiH Council of Ministers to urgently prepare and send 118 information to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on the state and appearances of peer violence and violence to children in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with a proposal for measures. I'm opening a debate. Representative Senad Šepić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11136	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman. Well, I think it's very important that we, too, in the Parliamentary Assembly, talk about this issue. I thank the Commission, the Joint Commission on Human Rights, who has supported and treated this initiative in the same way that I did, and I really expect that as soon as possible we have this response and the prepared materials from the Council of Ministers and our institutions to be able to conduct the debate. So that's all I can say today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11137	Monika Tomić, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11138	I may be a little longer than Mr. Šepić, I'm going to say that I think we all know here that the children are our greatest fortune and that that report that I won so quickly this morning, I have to admit that I'm not happy with it, that our children are falling out, somewhere at the bottom of the ladder, and it's our job to protect them and to fix all of this. Unfortunately, society always reacts when the problem escalates. Like any other problem, we said we had to find the cause. I'm afraid the cause of this kind of violence is a problem in the house, a problem in the family, so we need to start from the family, we need laws, we need reforms that will protect the family, protect women's rights and protect children. It is known that violent children are in the highest percentage and themselves exposed to violence, so that we need to strengthen social care, provide psychological support to vulnerable families, abused women. And what's very important to schools, which I don't think works at all, is that it's a continuous education of school psychologists and children's psychologists and psychotherapists. I won't be long, I know our time is very short, and we're all so tired, there's the media and what I would ask the media to do, because the media can do a lot of things, which is that they finally censor movies with violent content, to reduce the number of soaps, and to increase the number of films that have a positive, affirmative message for the youth. What I am interested in is a report by the Ombudsman for the Department of Rights and Child Protection, what have they done as an institution that monitors the rights and protection of children and what activities are they planning? I'm going to ask them that question as a representative question. Something that has been imposed on me here, here I would only ask for a little attention, because I want this, to see how you will react, if you will accept this, perhaps at the next session if we have space, here I am asking you as chairman, if we could put you on the agenda, means the next sessions one... point, and it would be – Education Reform, the earing of compulsory high school education. Here, to be one point whether the next or the next, here's what you see in terms of the schedule, but I think we should open that question up and we should all sort of prepare a little bit and see how we think about it. Thank you. 119
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11139	Thank you very much. Borislav Bojić, debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11140	Ladies and gentlemen. Very short. This initiative really has its place, and it needs to be given the attention it needs, but what is my request is standing here urgently to prepare this information. It can be urgent and 100 days, it can be 10, 50, it doesn't matter, I don't know how anyone looks at the emergency, but talking to representatives of the resolution ministry for 60 days would be an optimal deadline. So I think, if we were to achieve agreement, this, in order to, in some ways, limit the time, since it is necessary to collect data from entities, cantons and others in charge of this issue, since this is the jurisdiction of BiH institutions in a very small degree, and most of the jurisdiction concerns entities and cantons. That is why my request, if possible, if necessary I am prepared to draw up a conclusion on this, that this deadline be 60 days, and with this is a consensual resolution ministry and can provide this within 60 days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11141	Thank you very much. Zaima Backović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11142	A topic that should be discussed more often, and I am glad that my colleague Šepić has initiated, by asking him, if possible, just to spread one word, means – even violence against children and the phenomena of peer violence and violence to children, etc. But violence isn't just peer violence, it's a lot of violence today because of the general situation we have, and we don't know about it. That is why, and it is someone else's jurisdiction, but we, as the largest authority in this country, should initiate against all lower organs to start looking for and finding modals to prevent violence against children in every form. An esteemed HDZ colleague has noticed or noticed well, you had a movie last night that says it's not for, like, 18 years. So what I'm looking at, I'm creeping out, my head's falling off, my spines are shooting, my kids are drowning, and I don't know what's not in that movie anymore. And it's in that most regular program that could be. I turn around, you let the reality go, I turn the ZDF or I turn one of these programs over that period, and there's no way you're gonna have that kind of program. Interestingly, we have that approach, in fact, much more liberal than those we strive for. A special story is education, but not just children, but also those who raise them. Yes, from home, but also from those sitting in front of them in school benches, because it's just amazing what my colleague Magazinović said, forums, discomforts, and at a forum how much the professor boasts that he occasionally consumes or consumes heavy drugs. And then he raises those kids in front of him. And he says he's not going anywhere in front of the kids at school if he doesn't have a gun with him and then he doesn't have anything. But Šepić, you can fix this with one word only for the general. Thank you. 120
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11143	Thank you very much. Senad Šepić, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11144	Here, I accept both of these suggestions, in the name of correcting it, instead of urgent – 60 days and this second to get quality material, so we'll all have these ideas... listen and find the best solutions.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11145	Thank you very much, Your Honor, you've been very constructive. No more reports. I'm closing point 17. Moving to 18, Ad. 18. Consideration of Senad Šepić's parliamentary initiative, submitted at the 23rd session, held on 12.01.2016, which reads: "The Council of Ministers of BiH and other competent institutions and bodies of BiH are bound to, in accordance with the provisions of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on border crossings, urgently initiate the procedure for amending and supplementing the said contract, and in the direction of ensuring the retegorisation of the small-scale crossings of Zagrad – Pašin Potok, Plazikur – Gejkovac and Hadžin Potok – Bogovava at the border crossings for international passenger traffic. The PSBiH House of Representatives tasks the BiH Council of Ministers to inform it of its activities in this direction no later than 30 days." The House College has appointed the Committee for Transport and Communications responsible for considering this initiative. The committee responsible submitted its opinion on the initiative on 02.02.2016. The commission supported the initiative and forwarded it to further procedure. The commission adopted the following conclusion and proposed to the House of Representatives its adoption, and it reads: – The Council of Ministers undertakes to urgently initiate the procedure for the revision of the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia on border crossings, "the Official Messenger of BiH" med international contracts number: 23/13 in the direction of resolving the problems previously recorded in connection with the border crossings. I'm opening a debate. Senad Šepić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11147	Thank you very much. Well, I've debated these problems about traffic and these congestion that we have at the border crossings so many times. One of the most concrete ways to relieve the most frequent border crossing across Bosnia and Herzegovina, and this is the Maljevac located in the space of the Unsko-San canton, is to launch the initiative that 121 of these nearby, this, as they are called, are the small border crossings that are closest to that border crossing, are retegorized from small-time to border. We have already had such initiatives in Bosnia and Herzegovina, recently it has been done in Gabela, so in Kozarska Dubica, it has proved simply that there is now a willingness on the Croatian side to do so positively. And I would like to ask my colleagues here today in Parliament to support this approach because it may seem strange now, but it's really one of the biggest problems of people now living in the space of the Un-Sancan canton. In six months, we've had 2 million passengers crossing one border crossing, and some average congestion is somewhere between two and three hours. And then you can imagine what we're going to do, what good we're going to do for the people who live there if we make sure that one of these activities is done and that's how we fully relieve this, this border crossing. Now, I ask you to support this initiative in that sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11148	Thank you very much. Hanka Vajzović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11149	Thank you, Chairman. In short, it is not a debate, I do not know whether the chairman of the Commission was going to speak, the Commission for Transport and Communications, because there we had this request from colleague Šepić, who we are on the Commission, and probably, the Commission's opinion you all have, extended the conclusion that I have proposed here before, and the Commission, to support this initiative by colleagues Šepić and to extend the request to the revision of the entire contract with the Republic of Croatia, the Treaty on Borders, since there is still a significant number, I would say, the neural points of such transitions, or that there are no or that it would be welcome such a rebate. So, all in terms of the interest of citizens living in that area. And I think it's such a very urgent thing, people are suffering badly, they cross sometimes two, three times a day that line, here's what the initiative's already told about, but there's a lot of other places. So, it's a little more complex procedure, and I've warned before, the procedure for revising the Treaty more complex than the moment it was made, this Treaty, because we had it with neighbouring Croatia, now it's the EU, so it's not what it would be like for the Parachesics to say, not to be a step by step, let it go in the package. And if we were to support ourselves, I think it would solve people in these border zones, and God and everyone else who needs to cross the border. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11150	Thank you very much. Nikola Lovrinović, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11151	Only, counterpart Vajzović said, so the Treaty on Borders, so the Treaty on Borders, nothing more.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11152	Thank you very much. I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the hearing at point 18. 122 Before we consider paragraph 19, I suggest that the House declare itself on the unifying of the debate on points 19 to 22 of the agenda, as it is a matter of giving consent to the ratification of the agreement and the memorandum. I'm putting this motion to a vote. Of the 39 present – 34 for, 1 v, 4 abstentions. The Federation of BiH 23 for, no objection, 2 abstentions, RS 11 for, 1 against, 2 abstentions. In addition to the general and entity majority, I find that we have united the debate on points 19 to 22, the conclusion is at point 22. Ad. 19. - Ad. 22. Giving consent to ratification of the Agreement and the Memorandum The opinion of the committee responsible for foreign affairs under points 19 to 22 has been given to you. I'm opening a debate on points 19 to 22. If there are no reports, I shall conclude the hearing at points 19 to 22. How much do you want to vote? Five minutes, here, five minutes, then a vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11158	When we adopted the Report, we adopted the Law that was in line.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-03-0.u11159	Yes, one home and another only adopts the Report, and the Law is adopted. 126 Please repeat the vote. Of the 40 present – for 27 against 2 abstentions 11. The Federation of BiH 20 for, 2 against, 4 abstentions, RS 7 for, no objection, 7 abstentions. In addition to the general and entity majority, I find that we have adopted the Joint Commission Report of both homes to achieve the same text of the Asylum Act. Moving to point 12. – Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "Command Management of Customs Terminals", material of the BiH Institutions Audit Office. We are voting on the adoption of the Report with the conclusion of the Opinion of the Committee on Finance and Budget. Of the 40 present – for 32, against 2, abstentions 6. The Federation of BiH 25 for, 1 against, no abstentions, RS 7 for, 1 against, 6 abstentions. In addition to the general and entity majority, I find that we have adopted the Report with the conclusion of the Opinion of the Committee on Finance and Budget, and the report is on the review of the impact on the subject: "The Management of Customs Terminals", material of the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions. We're going to point 13. – Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "Procuring personal documents – case study", material of the BiH Institutions Audit Office. We are voting on the adoption of the Report with the conclusion of the Opinion of the Committee on Finance and Budget. Of the 40 present – for 32, against 2, abstentions 6. The Federation of BiH 26 for, no objection, no abstentions, RS 6 for, 2 against, 6 abstentions. With the general and entity majority ___________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Please repeat the vote. Of the 40 present – for 32, against 1, abstention 7. The Federation of BiH 25 for, no objection, 1 abstention, RS 7 for, 1 against, 6 abstentions. In addition to the general and entity majority, I find that we have adopted the Impact Review Report on the subject: "The procurement of personal documents – case study", material of the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions, with the conclusion of the opinion of the Finance and Budget Committee. Moving to point 14. – Consideration of Šemsudin Mehmedović's parliamentary initiative at the 21st session, held on 10.12.2015, which reads as follows:,, On the basis of Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, I submit a parliamentary initiative to form the Committee for the Selection of the Texts of Bosnia and Herzegovina." We're voting on the adoption of the initiative. Of the 40 present – for 22, against 13, abstentions 5. The Federation of BiH 21 for, no objection, 5 abstentions, RS 1 for, 13 against, no abstentions. There is a general but there is no entity majority in Republika Srpska. Shall we go straight to the second round? 127 Let's go, please, to the second round of voting. Of the 40 present – for 22, against 13, abstentions 5. The Federation of BiH 21 for, no objection, 5 abstentions, RS 1 for, 13 against, no abstentions. There is a general majority but there is a Republika Srpska, meaning 2/3 against it. We did not adopt the initiative of Šemsudin Mehmedović, which was tabled at the 21st session, which is, we do not need whether, in order to form a commission for the selection of the texts of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Moving to point 15. – Consideration of Denis Bećirović's parliamentary initiative, submitted at the 22nd session, held on 30.12.2015, which reads: "On the basis of Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, I submit a parliamentary initiative tasked by the BiH Council of Ministers to submit a report on attracting foreign direct investment in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2015 at the latest within 30 days of the adoption of this initiative in the Parliamentary House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, with a proposal for measures to improve the policy of attracting foreign investment." We're voting on the adoption of the initiative. Of the 40 present – for 28, versus 7, abstentions 5. The Federation of BiH 22 for, no objection, 4 abstentions, RS 6 for, 7 against, 1 abstention. In addition to the general and entity majority, I find that we have adopted the initiative of MP Denis Bećirović. Moving to point 16. – Review of Dušanka Majkić's parliamentary initiative submitted on 05.01.2016, which reads: "In accordance with Article 8. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I am launching a parliamentary initiative to include the session of the PSBiH House of Representatives in the agenda: Analysis of the situation in the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the diplomatic and consular network of BiH." We're voting on the adoption of the initiative. Of the 40 present – for 12, against 23, abstentions 5. Federation of BiH 5 for, 17 against, 4 abstentions, RS 7 for, 6 against, 1 abstention. There's no general majority. So we didn't adopt the initiative of MP Dušanka Majkić. Moving to point 17. – A discussion of Senad Šepić's parliamentary initiative, submitted at the 23rd session, held on 12.01.2016, which reads: "The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives obliges the Council of Ministers and other competent institutions to urgently prepare and send information to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on the state and phenomena of peer violence and violence to children in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with a proposal for measures." We are voting on the adoption of a modified initiative. Of the 40 present – for 34, no objection, abstention 6. The Federation of BiH 26 for, no objection, no abstentions, RS 8 for, nothing against, 6 abstentions. In addition to the general and entity majority, I agree that we have adopted the initiative of Representative Senad Šepić, who has been modified. And now we have a proposal for conclusions from the Joint Committee on Human Rights. Should I read it? We vote, which means adopting the conclusions of the Joint Committee on Human Rights. 128 Of the 40 present – for 32, no objection, abstention 8. The Federation of BiH 24 for, no favour, 2 abstentions, RS 8 for, no objection, 6 abstentions. In addition to the general and entity majority, I find that we have adopted the conclusions of the Joint Committee on Human Rights. We're going to point 18. – Consideration of Senad Šepić's parliamentary initiative, submitted at the 23rd session, held on 12.01.2016, which reads: "The Council of Ministers of BiH and other competent institutions and bodies of BiH are bound to, in accordance with the provisions of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on border crossings, urgently initiate the procedure for amending and supplementing the contract mentioned, and in the direction of ensuring the retegorisation of the small-scale crossings of Zagrad-Pasin Potok, Plazikur-Gejkovic and Hadžin Potok-Godovljava in border crossings for international passenger traffic. The PSBiH House of Representatives tasks the BiH Council of Ministers to inform it of its activities in this direction no later than 30 days." We're voting on the adoption of the initiative. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
