ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1786	Ladies and gentlemen of the delegates, I warmly welcome you and open the 19th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Our regular guests were invited to the meeting: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies in Bosnia and Herzegovina, who regularly follow the work of our House and representatives of BiH's Law Department, the Export and Credit Agency of BiH, the Central Bank of BiH, the institutions of the Ombudsman for Human Rights of BiH and BHRT. The session is attended by 14 delegates, of which 4 from Bosniak, 5 from Croatian, 5 from the Serbian people. Delegate Fahrudin Radončić is unable to attend the session for justified reasons. As indicated in your call for a session, and in accordance with Article 155, at the beginning of the session, before the debate on the agenda, delegates are allowed to ask delegate questions in oral form. I remind you that along with the invitation to the 19th session of the House of Nations, you have also been sent letters regarding the procedure for asking delegate questions in oral form. An unknown memo, i.e. a notice on the possibility of delivering delegate questions in oral form at the 19th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, was also sent to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers of BiH. In accordance with Rule 156 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, delegate Sredoje Nović was sent to the Council of Ministers Chairman, Mr Zvizdić; delegate Sifet Podžić for the Chairman's Council of Ministers, Mr Denis Zvizdić; delegate Dragutin Rodić for the Council of Ministers; delegate Ljilja Zovko for the Foreign Ministry of BiH; delegate Mario Karamatić for the BiH Council of Ministers, Mr Denis Zvizdić. In accordance with Article 156(2) of the Rules of Procedure of this announcement, the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and the member of the BiH Council of Ministers have been delivered to which the issue concerns. I would also like to remind you that we have sent a notice to the Public TV Service of BiH to ensure the direct TV transmission of this part of the session in accordance with Rule 155 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. We can now start by asking oral delegate questions and giving answers, with the fact that we have been informed that Mr. Zvizdić and Mr. Bevanda, as deputy chairman of the Council of Ministers, are not in a position to attend today's session. Mr. Mirko Šarović, also as deputy chairman of the Council of Ministers, does not have the authority to answer questions relating to Mr. Zvizdić, or the Council of Ministers as a whole. 2 So we have practically met the conditions for asking only one delegate question at this session, and this is the question of Mrs Ljilja Zovko to the Minister of Civil Affairs, Mr Adil Osmanović, while the other remaining delegate questions will be asked at the next session when we hope that Mr Zvizdić, or the address to which the second one is asked, will be able to attend the session. The prevention of presence is justified by official travel. Now I give my word to delegate Ljilji Zovko. Here you go, Mrs. Zovko.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1787	Thank you very much, President. That's a nice greeting to all those present. I, I have referred the question to the Ministry of Civil Affairs, and I am interested – Why is the Ministry of Civil Affairs not working according to the acts it has brought in, that is, by the Council of Ministers of BiH on the proposal of the same Ministry? I'm particularly interested in why they don't pay the fees to the well-deserved athletes of Bosnia and Herzegovina? On the list of well-deserved athletes on their site there are 17 of them, unfortunately two have passed away, such as Olympic silver players from Melbourne. I am also looking for answers to the following questions – How much for these athletes totaled annual fees from 2010 to 2016, since this law is likely to be paid from, receive fees from that time, from 2010. I'm interested in how much money is that at the annual level? I'm also interested in how much the total amount has been paid from the budget from that day to today to these athletes? Then I wonder what amount was paid through court rulings? This is very important to know what it is and I'm interested in what it is, how much it is, how much interest, and how much court costs? And I'm also interested, since there's no obligation to go back a few years, what would be the potential costs if such a practice continues to be paid through court proceedings? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1788	Thank you, too, dear colleague Zovko. Sir, Minister Adil Osmanović. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1789	The Honorable Chairman, the Vice-President, all delegates and delegates of this high House. Regulation on the categorisation of athletes at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina "The Official Messenger of BiH", No. 2/09/96/09 was adopted on 18.12.2008. In the period from 01.01.2009, only one year, i.e. 2010 the categorisation of athletes at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina was carried out, while during the remaining period the categorisation of athletes at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina was due to changed circumstances in relation to those at the time of the adoption of the Regulation in question, i.e. mainly due to the reduction of budgetary resources in the Budžet BiH for the development of sports in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the categorisation of athletes at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina was not done. For the above reasons, the Ministry of Civil Affairs could not pay compensation to the merited athletes. In accordance with the provisions set out in the Regulation in question which can be interpreted differently and interpreted in a way that, without restrictions, certain rights are too broadly established without any resistance in the financial capabilities of the provision of monetary 3 funds for these purposes, conditioning that the existing Regulation on the categorisation of athletes at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina is unsustainable, or not feasible, and that, in accordance with the new circumstances, a new Regulation on the categorisation of athletes at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina that would very clearly and precisely prescribe categories, the process of obtaining categories and method of realisation of established rights in a financially sustainable manner, in accordance with the dynamics of revenue in the budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions. In 2010, the monthly fee was 560 KM per individual, representing a total of 114,240 KM on an annual basis. The total amount paid so far for these purposes was 114,240 KM and 2012 from the budget reserve 51,000 KM, which per athlete was 3,000 KM. The Department of Sports of the Civilian Ministry, since I'm alone, I have time to see it.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1790	Two minutes, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1791	The Department of Sport of the Ministry of Civil Affairs does not have information on amounts paid through judicial judgments, interest rates and court costs. It is difficult to assess the potential costs of the issue, but the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs has prepared and already referred the Council of Ministers of the Proposal for a Regulation on the categorisation of athletes at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1792	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Zovko, you have the word to plead whether you are satisfied with the answer you received. Dear colleague Zovko.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1793	Well, let me tell you, it's only now that this answer puts me in some question. So that's about 114 thousand marks a year. Since 2010, in six years, I don't understand that there is no, that there is no such information if you cause no action, that you have no feedback on the costs and the consequences of this inaction. I don't mean, specifically, this minister, no matter who he is, who the minister is, so if I don't enforce the law or the rule that I've passed, I don't have any feedback that I'm mistaken, that I'm doing damage to this country, that huge costs are being paid. And now that I do, I ask the Ministry of Finance to deliver these expenses to me, because you can imagine how those people who need to sue feel to get some of their rights. We're not going to talk about the amount now, it can be bigger and smaller, but the fact is that they have the right, and they're especially people who haven't been able to manage their lives, and here I know personally that Razija Mujanović went to Croatia and there is a great solution to her condition, but not everyone can go to Croatia. So I'm curious, I'm very interested, because let's say on that, I know that there are these jobs in your ministry where they work...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1794	Mrs. Zovko time. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1795	I'm sorry, people are busy and getting paid neatly, and let's say I found a co-financing of sports events in 2016 million and 452, and for 2015 it was 937,000. So you can't get something out of this by the law that you're committed to. I can't deal with that, so let me get that information to the Ministry of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1796	Thank you, Mrs. Zovko. You will, of course, be in writing as it is with the Rules of Procedure. With this, we have exhausted today's question area, but we have the second part of this agenda point, i.e. the preliminary part of the questions raised so far. Delegate Mario Karamatić received an answer in written form to the oral question asked by the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, so I urge him to declare whether he is satisfied with the answer if he wants to, of course. The word is from a respected colleague, Mario Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1797	I am pleased with the answer, and I thank the Honorable Minister for such an exhaustive response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1798	Thank you too, Mr. Karamatić. Delegate Ljilja Zovko received an answer to a delegate issue in writing from Bosnia and Herzegovina's Radio-Television. So, are you satisfied with the answer? Here you go, Mrs. Zovko.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1799	Thank you very much. Here's a chance for me to thank BHRT because it's really exhausting information and it's useful to me for future work.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1800	Thank you too, Mrs. Zovko. Since we have exhausted the work of this preliminary agenda, we are moving on to the agenda of the session. For the 19th session, I propose the following amended and updated: Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 3rd emergency session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 5 2. The adoption of the minutes from the 18th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 3. The request of delegate Mari Karamatić to consider the proposal for a law supplementing the Service Act in the Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina following an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the House of People, Act No: 02-02-1-1053/16, of 05.04.2016; 4. Request of Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to consider draft law supplementing the Law on conflict of interest in Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the House of People, Law No 01-02-1-1403/16, of 25.05.2016; 5. The request of the College of the People's House to consider the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Salaries and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the People's House – Proposer: Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Law No: 02-02-1-1265/16, since 16.05.2016; 6. Application of the College of the People's House to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of political parties under emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations – Proposer: Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Law No: 01-02-1-033/16, of 25.02.2016; 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Procedure (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-929/16, from 21/03/2016; 8. Proposal for a Law on the Ombudsman for Human Rights of BiH (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-340/16, from 01.03.2016, with Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Peoples; 9. Proposal for a law on the control of external trade in dual-use goods (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Act No: 01,02-02-1-748/16, of 04.03.2016; 10. Proposal for a law on the control of foreign trade in arms, military equipment and goods of special purpose (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Act No: 01,02-02-1-752/16, of 04.03.2016; 11. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-610/16, from 19.02.2016 and 18.03.2016, with Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Peoples; 12. Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposers: delegates from the Club of the Serbian People, Law No: 02-02-1-31/15, of 23.12.2015 and 26.01.2016, with the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 13. Proposal for a Law on the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposers: delegates from the Club of the Serbian People, Law No: 02-02-1-32/15, from 23.12.2015 and from 26.01.2016, with the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 14. Proposal for a Law amending the Animal Protection and Wellbeing Act (first reading) – Proposer: delegate Mario Karamatić, Law No: 02-02-1-669/16, since 24.02.2016; 15. Report by the Kolegijum on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on criminal proceedings before the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 16. Report by the Joint Commission of both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law on strike of employees in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (Law No: 01,02-02-1-24/15, of 10.12.2015); 6 17. Report by the Joint Commission of both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina (Law No: 01,02-02-1-26/15, of 28 January 2016); 18. Proposal for a resolution on the non-acceptation of the construction of a warehouse and dump of radioactive waste, used sources and spent nuclear fuel and against activities related to the construction of a warehouse and dump on the Shop Gora, Dvor municipality, Republic of Croatia – Proposers: delegates Dragutin Rodić, Sifet Podžić and Mario Karamatić, issue: 02- 02-2-1270/16, since 28.04.2016; 19. Report on the work of the BiH Law Department for the period from 01.01.2015 to 31.12.2015, issue: 01,02-10-941/16, from 23.03.2016; 20. Report on the work of the Independent Commission for the Monitoring of Staying Conditions in Institutions, the conduct and respect of human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed by the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina in criminal proceedings, by foreign courts for acts provided for by the Criminal Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina or by an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina or by another court in accordance with Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015, issue: 05/6-50-19-19-918/16, of 21 March 2016; 21. Report on the work of the Interim Joint Commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes to review the work of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue: 01,02-50-19-1044/16, since 04.04.2016; 22. Annual report on the results of the Human Rights Institution's Human Rights Institution for 2015, issue: 01-12-1199/16, of 21/04/2016; 23. Report on the establishment of a proposal for a run-list of candidates for the selection of three members of the Management Board of the Higher Education and Quality Development Agency, submitted by the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of the procedure appointed three members of the Management Board of the High Education and Quality Development Agency, issue: 01,02-50-14-868-12,1/16, since 06.04.2016; 24. Report on the work of the Management Board of the Export-Credit Agency of BiH, issue: 01,02-50-19- 1068/16, dated 06.04.2016; 25. Report from the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015: (a) Financial Report for the year which ended on 31.12.2015, (b) Annual Report of the Central Bank of BiH for 2015, issue 02-16-1045/16, since 04.04.2016; 26. The financial plan and plans of the programme BHRT1 and BHT1 for 2016, the report on the implementation of the planning documents for 2015 and the report on the financial performance audit carried out by BHRT for 2015, the material of the Management Board of BHRT, number: 01,02- 29-1212/16, of 22.04.2016; 27. Information from the BiH Ombudsman on two arbitration proceedings under way, Act No 01,02-50-19-953/16, of 24.03.2016; 28. Information on IOR Recommendation 204 on the transition from informal to formal economy, adopted at the 104th session of the International Labour Conference, delivered by the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, No: 02-22-1642/15, since 29.12.2015; 29. Information on International Labour Organisation Recommendation No 203 on additional measures to effectively combat forced labour – applicant: BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, issue: 01-37-981/16, since 25/03/2016; 30. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of the Secretary of the Joint Service of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 31. Proposal for a decision on the appointment of the Secretary of the Joint Service of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 7 32. Proposal for a Supplement to the Decision appointing members of the Council of National Minorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Joint Committee for Human Rights of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue: 01,02-34-1185/16, since 20.04.2016; 33. Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, material of the Council of Ministers, issue: 01,02- 34-1362/16, since 10.05.2016; 34. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on the abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic and official passports, No: 01,02-05-2-913/16, of 21.03.2016; 35. Giving consent to the ratification of the Loan Treaty (Project Corridor 5c 2) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, issue: 01,02-05-2-1100/16, as of 11 April 2016; 36. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on the financing of the programme of specific recovery measures after the flood and flood risk management – part relating to Bosnia and Herzegovina – between Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is the Directorate for European Integration of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the European Union, represented by the European Commission, issue: 01,02-05-20-1377/16, as of 10.05.2016. Is anyone answering for a word? Any changes and additions to the agenda? The word has an esteemed colleague, Mr. Mario Karamatić. Here you go, Mr. Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1801	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't have an update on the agenda, but I have one remark. You see how much this is, this is really brutal, 36 points of the agenda. As much as there's paper here, I don't think it's possible at all points to prepare quality for discussion. Of course, we're all on this through various committees and through everything, but my personal view is that this is an excessive agenda, especially after adding six points that we only learned about this morning, just before the session. Here I would ask, and possibly it is, if there should be two or three sessions a month, this is not good, only if you're trying to turn us emissaries here into some handlifting machine. And right now I'm telling you that I'm not going to agree to this, especially I think it's incorrect to call a session on Friday when some colleagues have religious obligations, and here's what today if we don't get to finish the session by a certain time, if the debate opens on any of these 36 points. Here you would just beg the College, so in the future, it's a little bit of a reduction in the agenda, so if we need to hold meetings more often to keep them more regular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1802	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. Given that it is out of the agenda, therefore, the contents are referred to this remark, I will only inform you of the following. We held the last session exactly a month ago, these materials were coming in concesively, many of them are two or three months old. We as a College, of course, are starting from the assumption that none of the delegates are waiting for the session day to get acquainted with what came to him as material a month, two, or three months ago. It would be very difficult for us to function if in this way we were to determine each question, if someone had succeeded and arrived to look at something, read, etc. We respect your observation that there is a need to hold more frequent sessions, but at the same time we also inform you that this dynamic that we apply primarily depends on the material that comes to the House of Peoples, which is mostly, 8 so that part of the material that comes, of course, from the Council of Ministers who directly to us, or the House of Representatives as a home which is authorized to decide first in considering the material in the rules. So we're aware of all these things you're talking about, but we're primarily aware of the problems that would arise because of the postponement of one of these questions for the next. The example works, here in terms of clarification, I really must, uh, yes, yes, so that you don't find yourself in a position to think that I'm justifying the work of the College, it's not that. We have the Law on the financing of political parties, which is the result of the Interresor Working Group, which has been working since the middle, I think, last year. The electoral law is passed, and this law has gone in parallel with it, and now we can, for principle reasons, which perhaps someone in the public, might have defined as a comfort, to postpone this issue by a few weeks or so, but you understand that the public's interest is to resolve this issue as soon as possible because the elections have already been called. So, here's all the details that affect our work. So we work with what comes to us, so we don't produce any of this as our intention. I hope that this is how the College managed to, yes, here's to say, explain this situation where you are quite right, so when the material comes and it's not fully seen and that there may be a problem with how to decide about it. Mr. Genjac, the breach of the Rules of Procedure, although I think I already explained that breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I will agree with you of course. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1803	Thank you. You're the one who explained it, but I think there's more reasons. This is, therefore, more business intervention, but this option is not here on the taster, so I'm the appropriate option as it says here. So, the responsibility of the House College is, among other things, to create assumptions for the full exercise of the rights and duties of delegates in connection with the performance of their duties. You know what, the practice that has already been established that the College of the House of Peoples is being held an hour before the session and only then is it simply creating problems. Today we, I understand that sometimes extremely and extraordinaryly can be held before the College, before the session of the House held a session of the College, but always before the meeting of the House, as it became a regular practice, and an hour before the beginning of the session to hold a session produced by a series of very ugly consequences. So, first after the session of the College, which includes five or six new points, some of which are declared by emergency procedures, very extensive and significant laws. Such intervention in the agenda requires a club session, that the clubs agree, to state their position. And the clubs are supposed to be sitting after that. The result is a delay, waiting for the Council of Ministers, waiting for the media, etc. The other thing, for the administration they're pretty big problems, prepare it all, put it all on the agenda, copy it all, etc. There's no need. I understand you're waiting for certain memos, certain, from the House of Representatives, etc. But, say, yesterday all that was today was yesterday... To the Parliamentary Assembly, and to switch, and let's say that if we held a session of the College a day or two in advance, so that we could get a change of day, so that clubs had time to hold meetings, that would be a completely different situation. I beg you, therefore, I beg you, the House of Peoples is a very significant institution that an hour before the session would include such drastic changes in the agenda. So, I ask you to keep the Nationals' College sessions in good time so that clubs can do their job and that the administration can do its job. Thank you. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1804	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. Here, I am obliged to inform you, given that this is more a matter addressed to the College. So, the College is in constant work, and this kind of session that you're talking about is being held right before the session to see what else to do in order for this House to have working conditions. As for the College, it is literally in constant and daily work and is constantly responding to all those instructions that come from various other institutions. Here's the example, you are today as chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Constitutional Legal Commission held a session at 9:00, pardon me at 9:30, and this refers to point 29, and you, with that Commission, have proposed to us half an hour before the beginning of the session of material that should be at this session of the agenda. I was thinking now that you've reported that you're going to principally suggest that this be taken off the agenda, because it wasn't in front of these delegates before. But here, you didn't do it, we respect it, the Minister of Civil Affairs naturally expected the dynamics of the Council of Ministers' work... to go as they go. And in that sense, when I said that I agree in advance with your statement of injury to the Rules of Procedure, I agreed to think that this is how you'd react. So, normally I ask the club heads that, if they think that there is any open question about the functioning of clubs and conditions for the work of delegates, that the College of the Peoples is very urgent, because we first hear this kind of remark, so that we are a little surprised, here I see also colleagues Čolak and fellow Softić, we have never had this kind of remark, ever, especially given the practice. Mr. Mario Karamatić. Here you are, Mr. Karamatić, correcting the wrong quote, but we are now having a discussion on the agenda, Mr. Karamatić, not on whether the College has proposed a agenda or not. Here you go, Mr. Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1805	Correction of the wrong quote from your address, so I am exactly what I meant. First of all, I'm glad you two are hanging out all the time, and that's commendable. What you said, and what I will repeat again what I said, means I did not say that we were not able to read it, because we are all very well aware of this through work and commissions and everything and we know the subject very well, I said that it is not possible to prepare for a debate on such a large agenda. There are very significant laws here that we will vote on today, I simply don't know except for the late Stjepan Radić that there is someone who can prepare quality for the 36-point debate. I was talking about it, and I was talking about it if it's possible that we held a session more often because of quality discussions to get better solutions, and I didn't say what you insinuated that some colleagues or I personally didn't have time to read the materials, not that. It is not simply possible to prepare for 36 quality debates, but because of the abundance of it is not possible to prepare for 36 quality debates, so where will the esteemed colleague Genjac warn me that I do not respect the Rules of Procedure, I do not know Mr Radmanović that this is not a topic, You that I have exceeded the time envisaged, so that is what I meant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1806	I am, this explains some of the situations of Parliament's work so far. Mr. Martin Raguž, please excuse me before you've heard from Mr. Halid Genjac. Here you go, Mr. Genjac. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1807	Therefore, the next duty of the House of People's College, point e, is to decide which committee is responsible for considering the draft laws and other initiatives. I have already warned the members of the Constitutional Commission, who are members of the College at the same time, not to be delivered to us by which commissions are responsible, that the College is not delivering a letter which is responsible, we do not receive a memo. So, in the agenda that you proposed before today's day, a few days ago, you put the point – Information on the Recommendation of the International Labour Conference. You haven't assigned a competent commission, and the agenda is on the line. And today I held a session of the Constitutional Legal Commission just to try to ensure the conditions for this point to be considered today. Before that, we had not received a commission from the College, only by analogy that the House of Representatives there was constitutionally considering this material and we were considering it today. So, please, you have in your answer further complicated the matter in such a way that the College really needs to do according to the Rules of Procedure its obligation to clear out. Please determine in good time which committees are responsible for which initiative, for which material and I ask you, so I suggest, please, I don't know how I would, hold a session of the Colleges who... question the final session, the day, two before the clubs have time, because everything that needs to be considered at the House comes to Parliament two days earlier. There is no need for an hour before the session to be held and changed the agenda this drastically. And we can argue until Judgment Day, but there's no argument or no need for that. I simply ask you to do what has always been done and to do what has been done in the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1808	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. Now again, I have to give information to the public and in this way extend practically this part of our work today. Therefore, the public must know that this impression that could be obtained from what Mr Genjac said, which would mean that Mr Genjac himself came and took for his commission what he thinks should be processed, so it comes to very clear procedures within Parliament at the address of the Constitutional Commission and only when he comes to the Constitutional Commission then chairing it puts it on the agenda. So, it never happened that, now I say, some piles of any president, the chairman of the commission approaches and takes what he thinks needs to be solved, because he heard or saw someone like him do it somewhere. So, I would pray that we really stick to that level of debate that we've had in this House of Nations that's not easily acquired, it was acquired at times when there were 150 points of the agenda at these sessions, so we're in line with time, and we have the most excellent of thank Bog, I'd say, "Home not only in this space where we belong, but I'd say we're for the reputation and others." The word has an esteemed colleague, Mr. Martin Raguž. Here you go, Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1809	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. I just wanted to intervene, discuss the complexity of the agenda and about the conditions under which the envoys work is an important debate and on the agenda itself, so you can't limit 11 of us by the fact that we point out that this is beyond the debate on the agenda. I think it's very important to know. Secondly, I believe that the College, not only believe, I am convinced that it works intensively and continuously, and I support it, but that does not mean that the College needs an hour before the session to include the points of the agenda. That's no excuse, so to include such significant points of the agenda an hour before the session. And this, although I understand that we all need to make an effort together that if something is so time-consuming, here's to understanding, I understand in that context your argument. And here, I would ask these ruling to agree these procedures and relations with each other not to take us here in public too, and they have denied the possibility that the opposition will participate and contribute to making these procedures more quality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1810	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. We've exhausted the agenda debate with this. I'm closing the debate. Given that there have been no amendments and additions, I find that this is a harmonised agenda for the House of Peoples, and since there are no amendments and an addition to the agenda has been adopted and not voted on, and all in accordance with Article 60. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Moving to point one, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 3rd emergency session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina I'm opening a debate. There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. We're moving on to a plea. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present, 14 delegates voted in favour. From the Federation – 9 for, against no one, abstentioned anyone, from Republika Srpska – 5 for, against no one, abstentioned anyone. There is a general and entity majority, so I realize that the Journal of the Third Emergency Session of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH has been adopted. Moving to point two, Ad. 2. The adoption of the minutes from the 18th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1814	Well, I'd like to finish it right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1815	Well, I would suggest you, since you have objections to the Rules of Procedure, I'm afraid that someone like the College would not accuse us of holding a session outside the Rules of Procedure by allowing you the opportunity to explain the Law. This is where we explain the procedure, so it's an emergency procedure, so do you want to?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1816	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1817	Here you go, Mr. Karamatić has his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1818	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, there's no one to accuse you if I don't, so I won't. Here, this is my modest contribution to this vastness of the agenda we're talking about today. You've all got the law, you've read the Opinion and the Legislative Commission. I'd just like to clarify, so exactly what this is about. So, this bill would allow people who spent at least three years at war in the ranks of today's Armed Forces, i.e. The HVO, the armies of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republika Srpska, to get the same opportunity as the generals or brigades, means they have the possibility to apply for retirement, which either the presidency or the Ministry of Defence approves. So it can't happen here that suddenly all 13 people who meet the conditions simply retire, because someone has to approve them. However, we open up that possibility to them. Why did I take this? So, so far, there have been certain regulations relating to soldiers who have 35 to 55 years of life and 20 years of training, as well as at least 3 years of participation in the war, that they can retire. And today, the situation in the Armed Forces is that all members, who have about a thousand within the Armed Forces, who have three years of participation in the war, have at least 32 years of employment and that they are all over 40 years old. Following the mood of people in the Armed Forces, and given the time and resources invested in personal education and training, and the desire to advance in the service, I believe that the maximum number of people interested in this way would mean that they would submit a personal request for early retirement would be 20% to 25%. So it's about 200 to 250 members. This is the first time the officers have had that possibility, so far, I repeat, they've had generals and brigades. A very small number of officers, officers who came out of the war they have already or become brigades and generals so they have that possibility, so there are very few colonels and commanders left... that would be covered by this. However, what is significant is that the officers would be covered. The dignitaries came out in the vast majority with the greatest act of war to the dignitaries they could have. It's either war officers who didn't have a high school or a higher school, so they got an officer's rank and stayed in the Armed Forces without any possibility of progress. And these people have been standing in the Armed Forces for ten years and waiting for the possibility of retirement. I don't need to be here, I say again, afraid of some sudden spill, especially important personnel, because I don't believe that, I don't know, either the Ministry of Defence or the Presidency would allow a colonel who's a doctor to retire early because he needs the Armed Forces. But we have a large number of young people who want to build military careers, and they don't have the opportunity because here are these people who brought the war to their backs sitting in those positions without any possibility, meaning either to retire or to do something else. Also when they fill the years of life they need, which is three to four years more, and most of them will get conditions for regular retirement. This pension is so much that they won't be able to provide themselves with any treatment. So, we're gonna make the people who brought the war out on their backs and make minor social cases. The most I've been asked to go with this bill of law is, soldiers are the ones who win battles on the ground, and generals are the ones who take confessions from those soldiers because they were down in the mud, which they died, which is what the general says -- if you did, he says they're mine. And this president of the state or a superior to the general says, "Well done, here's another medal for you, and those who were in the mud don't get anything." This is the possibility for those men who took the battles to ensure the same thing that the generals have. The generals have used it all long ago, long ago, or they have the opportunity to use it whenever they think of it. Here, I ask you this way to allow those people who created this country to have the possibility of deciding whether to stay in the Armed Forces or to apply for early retirement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1819	Thank you too, Mr. Karamatić. I'm opening a debate. So, regarding the urgency of the procedure, is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. 14 We are now voting on the procedure, so whether the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of BiH will be discussed by an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Run the plea. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present – 5 delegates were in favour, 9 were against, no one abstained. From the Federation – 5 for, 4 against, abstained no one, from Republika Srpska – no one with, 5 against, abstentions. There is no general majority, so I find that the request for an examination of the Bill on the Completion of the Law on Service in the Armed Forces in BiH has not been adopted by an urgent procedure. Now we're going to discuss this, I'm sorry, we're going to move on to a statement on whether we're going to consider this law in a shortened procedure. Run the plea. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present, 5 delegates were in favour, 9 were against, abstentioned no one. From the Federation – 5 for, 4 against, no one abstention, from Republika Srpska – no one for, 5 against, no one abstention. There is no general majority, so I find that the dom did not accept that this Law is being considered by a shortened procedure. Accordingly, this law will be in regular procedure. We're going to work at point four, Ad. 4. Request of Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to consider draft law supplementing the Law on conflict of interest in Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the House of People, Law No 01-02-1-1403/16, of 25.05.2016. You have received a request from the House of Representatives to discuss the draft law supplementing the Law on conflict of interest in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. I'll give the word to the promoter if he wants to. He doesn't want to, thank you. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. We're moving on to a plea. We are voting on the procedure, so whether the draft law supplementing the Law on conflict of interest in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina will be considered by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present – 11 were for, 3 were against, there were no abstentions. From the Federation – 9 for, against no one, abstentioned anyone, from Republika Srpska – 2 for, 3 against, no one abstained. There is a general and entity majority, so I find that a request to consider the draft law supplementing the Law on conflict of interest in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina has been adopted by an urgent procedure. I'm opening a debate on the bill. 15 Is anyone answering for a word? The word has a distinguished colleague, Mr. Halid Genjac. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1821	I thank the chairman. As the Law on conflict of interest is known by 2013 in Bosnia and Herzegovina, its implementation was also in the power of the Central Election Commission. It was a law that was quite well positioned by that institution with certain shortcomings, such as a ban on running as a sanction that should certainly have been removed. In 2013, the then parliamentary majority by emergency procedure adopted amendments to the Law on conflict of interest which definitely, it can be said, destroyed the institution of conflict of interest at the level of state institutions. A body has been established for which, in these amendments, it is not said whether it is parliamentary, whether it is independent, what it is, etc., etc., etc., and up to this banal issue which the seal will use, as a consequence of all this. The result of all that we have warned about, therefore, when the law is passed, and by emergency procedure, is that what happens is that the Commission for the conflict of interest is unable to decide, that the Commission on conflict of interest is not in a position to initiate the procedure yet. And that, I would say, is a pretty good situation for all appointed officials and elected officials who use opportunities, or have the intention of using opportunities, conflicts of interest and everything that comes out of it. I think that one extremely bad solution cannot be fixed by a less bad solution, an extremely bad solution can only be fixed by a completely new solution. And to not ask ourselves tomorrow what we're doing, as we're now wondering what we did in 2013 when we did this, uh, I think the solution to the seal is a little bit worse than this situation we're in, so the situation is completely bad, there's no institute, there's no decision, and the solution to the seal as suggested is under the big questionnaire whether it's going to solve the problem at all. Namely, the ministry of justice says the Commission for Conflict of Interest is a parliamentary body. The bill says that the seal of the Anti-Corption Agency will be used for the Commission's acts of conflict of interest. In the Anti-Corruption and Prevention Agency, there is no classification number for this area at all. The act will be signed by a member of the parliamentary assembly, and the stamp will be an independent institution of the Anti-Corruption and Anti-Corruption Agency, etc., etc. I think this seal solution is actually an extension of agony, but the only way to solve this issue is to access the new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1822	Thank you, too, Mr. Genjac. Are there any more reported participants in the debate? There are no further reports, so I'm closing the hearing. We're moving on to a plea. We vote on the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on conflict of interest in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present, there were 9, against three delegates, two delegates were detained. From the Federation – 7 for, against no one, abstained 2 from Republika Srpska – 2 for, 3 against, no one abstained. There is a general and entity majority, so I find that the Law on the Completion of the Law on Conflict of Interest in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina has been adopted. We're going to work at point five, point 16 Ad. 5. Application of the College of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to consider the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Salaries and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the People's House – Proposer: Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Law No: 02-02-1-1265/16, since 16.05.2016 At its 27th session, held on 27.06.2015, the College of the People's House decided to propose that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Salaries and Receipts in BiH institutions be considered by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. We move to a statement on the procedure, so whether or not we are going to consider the bill by emergency procedure, in accordance with 124. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Here you go. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present, there were 9 delegates, four delegates, 1 delegate was maintained. From the Federation – 8 for, against no one, abstention 1, from Republika Srpska – 1 for, 4 against, no one abstained. There's a general majority but there's no entity, so we're going to consult now. [[/consultations of the College.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1827	Thank you. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of political parties came first and foremost as a result of the recommendations made by GRECO in the third round of evaluation aimed at contributing to the fight against corruption or the reduction of corruption, this time in the case of political parties. The Interresor Group, which has been working on amendments to this Act, has reached agreement in a certain degree in a way that some of the ten recommendations, which are very important, are applied by some perhaps 5.5 recommendations. There was no agreement and there were different views on the Interresor Group. But since the commission decides by consensus what is agreed is included in the Amendment and Supplement proposal, and that's the case, and that's fine. However, given the importance of these recommendations and the fact that already in the next round of evaluation of GRECO mentions the implementation and non-implementation of these recommendations, I think that this House of People should also give opportunity to delegates to possibly correct the bill's proposal, to specify some solutions, some deadlines set clearer, etc., etc. So I think, since it is a law that is neither simple to that extent to go by emergency procedure, it is more of an amendment, and it is not urgent to go by emergency procedure, and there is a need to discuss solutions and implementation and other recommendations of GRECO, I do not think this law should be considered by emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1828	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. Is anyone else answering the question of whether this law should go into emergency procedures? There are no reports, so I'm closing the hearing. Now we're moving on to a plea. So we are voting on the procedure and whether or not we are going to consider the bill by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. 18 Thank you. Of the docking 14 delegates – 7 were for, 5 v, 2 abstentions. From the Federation – 5 for, 2 against, 2 abstentions, from Republika Srpska – 2 for, 3 against, no one abstention. There is a general and entity majority, so I agree that we have decided to adopt a request to consider the amendment law and amendments to the Law on the financing of political parties by emergency procedure. Now we're going to work on this part of the agenda. I'm opening a debate, and above all, I'm giving, I'm sorry, I'm giving my word to the Proposer of this Law if he's present, if he wants to. He doesn't want to, thank you. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. We're moving on to a plea. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present, there were 8 delegates, 3 delegates against them, 3 delegates were detained. From the Federation – 6 for, against no one, abstained 3, from Republika Srpska – 2 for, 3 against, no one abstained. There is a general and entity majority, so I find that the amendment law and amendments to the Law on the financing of political parties have been adopted by an urgent procedure. Moving to point seven, Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Procedure (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-929/16, from 21/03/2016 This is a second reading, a second reading discusses amendments and votes on the bill's proposal. You have received a report from the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples. The Commission accepted the text of the draft law with one amendment and proposed to the House its adoption with the amendment adopted. At the 28th session, held on 27.04.2016, the House of Representatives adopted the Law in a second reading. I give my word to Mr. Halid Genjac, chairman of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples, if he wishes. As in the report, thank you. Now I give my word to the Proposer of the Law, if he wishes, if he is present. He doesn't want to, thank you, thank you. I'm opening a debate on this bill. There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. We're moving on to a plea. So we are voting on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Procedure in Second Reading. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present, there were 12 delegates, no one against them, two delegates were detained. From the Federation – 9 for, against no one, abstentioned anyone, from Republika Srpska – 3 for, no one against, 2 abstentions. 19 Since there is a general and entity majority, I find that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on administrative procedure was adopted in the second reading. I find that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Procedure has been adopted in a different text than the House of Representatives, and that we need to form a joint committee to bring the text of the Law into line. I call on the club chiefs and other delegates to make proposals for their representatives in the joint commission. Mr. Genjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1830	Mr. Kadić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1831	Sead Kadić, I think you said Tadić. Thank you, Mr. Genjac. The word now has the head of the club, the chairman of the Croatian People's Club. Here you go, Mrs. Zovko.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1832	From here, that's what Mrs. Zdenka Džambas will do.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1833	Thank you. The word has the chairman of the Serbian People's Club. Here you go, Mr. Nović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1834	Ognjen Tadić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1835	I really must thank you for how much you appreciate my participation in the work of all these committees, thank you for this obligation, so I would ask you to change the proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1836	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1837	Darko Babalj. Thank you. Now we move to a statement on the composition of our part of the Joint Commission. Start the vote. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present, there were 11 delegates, no one against them, three delegates were detained. From the Federation – 8 for, against no one, abstention 1, from Republika Srpska – 3 for, against none, abstention 2. There is a general and entityal majority, so I realize that we adopted the proposal, although the two promoters were against this proposal, that we chose Mr. Sead Kadić, Mrs. Zdenka Džambas and Mr. Dark Babalj as members of our part of the Joint Commission. We're going to work at eight, 20 Ads. 8. Proposal for a Law on the Ombudsman for Human Rights of BiH (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-340/16, from 01.03.2016, with Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Peoples This is the first reading of the bill. Article 103. Rules of Procedure, and first we have a debate on the need for adoption and the principles on which the bill is based. You have received the Opinion of the legislative sector of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the Joint Commission for Human Rights of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The legislative and legal sector of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly has found that the bill is not entirely in line with the provisions of Article 95. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples and the Uniform Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. For this reason, the College of the People's House sent a letter to the promoter and the Opinion of the Legislative Sector to correct the perceived shortcomings in the draft law on the Ombudsman for human rights of BiH. The Proposer submitted a new text of the Bill on 01.03.2016. The House of People's Constitutional Legal Commission has found that the Bill's proposal is now in line with the BiH Constitution, but is not in line with Bosnia and Herzegovina's legal system. The joint commission on the human rights of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly has adopted the principles of the bill. The Commission also decided to open a public debate involving interested organisations, institutions and individuals on this bill's proposal. The House of Representatives adopted the draft Law on the Ombudsman for Human Rights in the first reading and the conclusion that the Joint Commission on Human Rights has decided to hold a public debate within 30 days on the Proposal for a Law on the Ombudsman for Human Rights of BiH. I give my word first to the billman, if he wishes. The word has been given to the honourable minister, Mrs. Semiha Borovac. Here you go, Mrs. Borovac.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1839	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable delegates. Here you can see that the law has already gone through a significant parliamentary procedure, but what I want at this point in front of the legislator to say is that the work to amend this law began in 2014 and in line with the recommendations of the UN committees addressed to the Member State, which pointed to the need to strengthen efforts to reorganise and strengthen the Ombudsman's human rights institution in line with the Paris principles and recommendations of the Council of Europe. Also by the ICC International Co-ordination Council, which otherwise gives the status of A to the Ombudsman institution, the need for authorities to step up efforts to reorganise and strengthen the Ombudsman's institution in relation to the open process, in relation to an open process with more consultation in the selection of the Ombudsman, which is the principle of the guarantee of independence. Then, in accordance with the Paris Principles, ensure certain financial independence and develop material and human capacities. Similar remarks were received by the UN Council on Economic, Cultural and Social Rights, as well as by the Committee on Civil and Political Rights, which highlights among other things the need to express a single and common position in relation to the protection of human rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina. On these principles, the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Human Rights, has based and conceived the Law on the Ombudsman and, above all, by law, improved the organisational structure of the Ombudsman's institution in such a way that the institution is strengthened by the introduction, clear precision of jurisdiction and by adding jurisdiction relating to the fulfilment of the obligations under the Option Protocol, which is the function of 21 of the national preventive mechanism. So that the Law clearly sets out four ombudsmen's responsibilities, that is: protection and promotion of human rights, so, then the national preventive mechanism and initiatives for legislative activity. When it comes to further strengthening the Ombudsman's institution with regard to its functionality in the Law, it is proposed to divide the affairs of the Ombudsman institution so that these transactions are divided into three categories that allow for more precise, more concrete work on the protection of human rights and the application of the Law on Discrimination in respect of the Ombudsman Institution. Furthermore, what has been done under this Act is to introduce a continuing co-operation obligation with civil society, forming and establishing a permanent advisory body for co-operation with civil society, the institution's role in contact with the research of concrete occurrences of discrimination in practice has been strengthened, and the obligation to analyse and report on the observed occurrences of discrimination and to propose recommendations, as well as an initiative to amend the law. The institution's capacity to improve the promotion and protection of human rights has also been improved, the implementation of an open process for more consultation in the appointment of the Ombudsman has been ensured and financial independence has been ensured by ensuring that, at the proposal of the Ombudsman institution, the funds for work are provided in the budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, thus opening up and creating conditions for the independent financing of this institution. So, we tried to build all these recommendations from the competent committees of the Council of Europe and Paris on the principles of law. We have also received, on this Law before the parliamentary procedure was sent to the Council of Ministers, a meeting of the Council of Ministers, of which we have a positive opinion which is an opinion in the course of the debate, a public consultation on this Law. Here, I think we have improved as an institution, as proposing we have improved the importance of the work of the Ombudsman institution in line with the recommendations given and the harmonisation with the principles they have given us. And, of course, in the European Commission's Progress Report, Bosnia and Herzegovina is required to advance this institution in line with the principles I was talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1840	I'd like to thank the Honorable Minister. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Halid Genjac. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1841	Thank you. So, we've heard from the Minister a long-term and I'd say a very demanding procedure for making this law. We also received the European Commission's opinion on democratisation through legislation with proposals for certain corrections and improvements, then an initiative to monitor European integration,... NGOs also had proposals for interventions. It is mainly interventions that go towards bringing this Law into line with this area in a European binding norm. At the same time, the Joint Committee on Human Rights has supported the principles, or scheduled a public debate on this law. And at the same time on the Constitutional Legal Commission, we had different opinions, I would say,...a disputed constitutional basis, because indeed this law exists and I would say it is not disputed, but there were certain dilemmas about compliance with the legal system, which I think can be brought into line with the appropriate interventions of the amendments. So given all this work and the effort that has been done, and I would say the quality of the bill that has a fundamental substance, I think, to advance this area and 22 assumptions that the corresponding amendments are being corrected, I think it would be good to reject today's report from the Constitutional Commission that is negative and that the Constitutional Commission is re-examined this issue and that through this amendment phase and through the public debate we come to, I think, agree that we can all be satisfied with this solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1842	Mr. Ognjen Tadić has his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1843	Thank you, Mr. Softić. Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. So, very briefly, this is actually about this relationship that Mr. Genjac spoke about the report itself. By taking down this Report, we are actually creating conditions to achieve two things, which is to enable a wider professional public to enter the procedure around this Law, of course not as a proponent or a voter, but as an initiator of certain solutions that would be better than some of the existing solutions, this is what Mr Genjac spoke of. As it is very important for the BiH Ombudsman's very institution that this procedure goes because it itself is part of a wider circle of world organisations concerning the accreditation of this institution and everything else and it is important that there are no problems. So, the Law itself as it is, I don't think it's good, I think, that it needs to be resolved by some dilemmas that, first of all, exist, here's to say, in the very people who work in that institution or lead it, because they have certain reserves in relation to existing solutions that are partially corrected, they're not. But in order to create conditions for this, I agree with Mr Genjac that further work should be allowed under this procedure and therefore actually vote against the Commission's opinion, but, of course, to stress that just voting against the Commission's opinion does not mean that the law is good at the same time, but that it should be given the opportunity to be further completed. I think this is important in these moments, especially given the public's interest in clarifying that the act of voting itself would be understood until the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1844	Thank you very much. Is there more...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1845	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. So, as you have heard, we are voting on the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Run the plea. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present, there were four delegates, 10 delegates against them, and no one was restrained. From the Federation of BiH – 4 for, versus 5, abstained no one, from Republika Srpska – no one, against 5, abstained. 23 There is a general, excuse me, the general majority does not exist, which means that the opinion of the Constitutional Commission at the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH has not been adopted. We're going to work at point nine, Ad. Nine. Proposal for a law on the control of external trade in dual-use goods (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Act No: 01,02-02-1-748/16, since 04.03.2016 In the first reading of the bill, Article 103. The Rules of Procedure first hold a debate on the need for adoption and the principles on which the draft law is based. You have received the Opinion of the legislative sector of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the Joint Commission for Defence and Security. The legislative and legal sector of the Parliamentary Assembly has established that the proposal for a law is in line with the provisions of Article 95. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples and the Uniform Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The constitutional committee of the House of Peoples found that the draft law was in line with the Constitution and the Bosnia and Herzegovina legal system. The Joint Defence and Security Commission has accepted the principles of the bill. The House of Representatives adopted the proposal for a law on the control of external trade in goods for dual purposes in the first reading on the sequel of the 28th session, held on 11.05.2016. I give the word to Mr. Sifet Podžić, whom the Joint Commission has appointed as rapporteur at the House of Peoples session, if it pleases. He doesn't want to, like in the report. Thank you. I give the word to the Proposer of the Law, if he wishes. He doesn't want to, thank you. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. We're moving on to a plea. We are voting on the proposal for a law on the control of external trade in dual-use goods in first reading. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present – 11 were for, against the two were abstentions. From the Federation – 9 for, against no one, abstentioned anyone, from Republika Srpska – 2 for, 2 against, 1 abstention. There is a general and entity majority, so I find that the proposal for a law on the control of external trade in dual-use goods was adopted in the first reading. We're moving on to Dot 10, Ad. Ten. Proposal for a law on the control of foreign trade in arms, military equipment and goods of special purpose (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-752/16, from 04.03.2016
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1849	On behalf of the Croatian Club please pause.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1850	Can you just determine for what duration?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1851	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1852	What time do you want to take a break?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1853	Ten minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1854	At the request of the head of the Croatian People's Club, I am giving a 10-minute break. [[PAUZA]] I ask the members of the High House to take their seats so that we have conditions to continue our work. We've got a quorum we can keep working. So, first of all, I call on the chairman of the Croatian People's Delegation Club, Ms. Zovko, to declare, if he wishes, the reasons for the request for a break and attitude.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1856	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1857	No need, thank you. The debate is still ongoing, so it is not yet closed. Mrs. Zovko, you're registered? Remove the monitor, please, Mrs. Zovko name. If there are no further reports, then I am concluding this debate. 26 We now move to a statement on the opinion of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Nations. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present, there were 5 delegates, 7 delegates against them, 2 delegates were detained. From the Federation of BiH – 1 for, 7 against, 1 abstention, from Republika Srpska – 4 for, against none, abstention 1. There is no general majority when it comes to...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1858	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1859	I ask that the vote be restarted. So, at Mr. Babalj's request, the vote was restarted, so I am re-publishing the results of the vote, again.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1860	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1861	To Mr. Sifet Podžić's commercial, I ask that we repeat the plea. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present – 8 were for, against 6 delegates, there were no abstentions. From the Federation of BiH – 3 for, against 6, there are no abstentions, from Republika Srpska – 5 for, no, there are no abstentions. There's a general majority but there's no entity majority, so we have to consult. [[/consultations of the College.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1868	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1869	Excuse me, I'm asking Mr. Martin Raguž's statement to be re-produced. Thank you. Mr. Genjac, I see, you want... 29
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1870	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1871	Of course. I ask that the vote be held again at the request of Mr. Genjac, obviously it's a technical mistake. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present, 4 delegates were in favour, 5 were against them, and 5 delegates were detained. From the Federation of BiH – 4 for, against no one, abstentioned 5, from Republika Srpska – there is no one against 5 with abstentions. There is no general majority, so I find that, in accordance with Article 104(3), if the House does not accept the opinion of the committee of the House (1) of this member of the House, it asks the Commission to draw up a new opinion, having regard to the debate held at the House session and within the time limit set by the House. This opinion is going back to work with the Constitutional Commission. Moving to point 14, Ad. 14. Proposal for a Law amending the Animal Protection and Well-being Act (first reading) – Proposer: delegate Mario Karamatić, Law No: 02-02-1-669/16, since 24.02.2016 At its 18th session, held on 27.04.2016, when considering the Bill on Amendments to the Animal Protection and Well-being Act, he did not adopt a negative opinion of the Constitutional Commission of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH on the proposed Law. Since the dom did not accept the Commission's opinion in accordance with Article 104(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the People's House, the Commission is responsible for drawing up a new opinion on the Proposal for a Law amending the Animal Protection and Well-being Act. You've been given the opinion of the House of the People's Chamber of Justice. The Commission found that the proposal for a law amending the Animal Protection and Well-being Act was in line with the BiH Constitution and the Bosnia and Herzegovina legal system and supported the principles of the bill. I give my word to the chairman of the Constitutional Committee of the House of Peoples, Mr. Genjac, if he wishes. As in the report, thank you. I give the word to the Proposer of the Law, if he wishes. As in the law, thank you. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. We're moving on to a plea. We vote on the Proposal for a Law amending the Animal Protection and Well-being Act in the first reading. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present – 10 were for, 2 were against, 2 were abstentions. From the Federation of BiH – 8 for, against none, abstention 1, from Republika Srpska – 2 for, 2 against, 1 abstention. There is a general and entity majority, so I find that the bill on amendments to the Animal Protection and Well-being Act was adopted in the first reading. 30 Moving to point 15, Ad. 15. Commission Report on Efforts to Reach Consent on Proposal for a Law on Complementary of the Law on Procedural Procedure before the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1880	I thank the chairman. We have received one, I would say, full report that objectively reflects what has been done and what is in accordance with the powers of the defences by certain segments and their competences done. Of course, as you can see, where it depends on the D.A.'s office is mostly met on an up-to-date basis, where it depends on other courts, of course, depending on other courts, and that the D.A. can't affect the deadlines. The fact is that objects are accumulated for probably the main reason. However, two questions that seem to me to us from the Report deserve attention, such as the issue of the adoption of the Internal Organisation Regulation, where the Report justifiably potentiates the problem, because the pravobranilaštvo has delivered and formed the proposal for a new Regulation, which is needed, on the internal organisation, but no consent has yet been given. That is why I propose one of the conclusions that ours should be – that the Council of Ministers be tasked with making a decision within 60 days on a Regulation on the internal organisation of the Bosnia and Herzegovina's Ombudsman. The second question in our domain is, in some ways, the question of procedures, i.e. the implementation of the Agreement on Conflict Issues with the former republics of the former Yugoslavia, for the reasons that courts in Croatia, Serbia, but also in Bosnia and Herzegovina, have the view that it cannot be applied directly before that agreement, therefore the Agreement on Succession, when making judgments. This is the reason Bosnia and Herzegovina's assets in other countries are falling. We don't know what's going on. Therefore, the assumption that this would not have occurred was the conclusion of bilateral agreements on the implementation of the Agreement on the issue of succession with all these countries. I therefore propose a second conclusion – That the House of Nations asks the Council of Ministers to submit within 30 days to the Parliamentary Assembly information on the state of bilateral agreements on the implementation of the Agreement on Sucession Affairs. So, what's going on is whether the agreements have started, whether the talks have started, where the problems are, simply so that the Parliamentary Assembly gets all the information on the issue.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1881	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. There are no further applications for participation in the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Votes on Bosnia and Herzegovina's Ombudsman's work report for the period 01.01.2015 to 31.12.2015. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Conclusion later. So, we move to a statement and vote on the report on the work of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Ombudsman for the period from 01.01.2015 to 31.12.2015. Thank you. Out of the 12 delegates present – 8 delegates were for, against 3 delegates, one delegate was abstained. From the Federation of BiH – 6 for, against no one, abstention 1, from Republika Srpska – 2 for, versus 3, no one abstained. 34 There is a general and entity majority, so I find that the report on the work of the BiH Ombudsman for the period from 01.01.2015 to 31.12.2015 was adopted. Now we move on to a statement on the proposal for conclusions delivered by the esteemed colleague, Mr Halid Genjac. Is there any need for me to read these conclusions? Do you want me to read it? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1887	Thank you, Mr. President. In front of us there is one really very large one, I would say, a very responsible report made by a very important institution and I would like to briefly comment on a few of the assessments given in the introduction of this Report, and I believe that they are important and that the public should know, this, which problems and what state this Institution is dealing with. So I will only quote one part of the izvjšće, says – in 2015, the Ombudsman faced a number of challenges related to the specificity of the economic and political environment followed by a high level of unemployment, low living standards, ineffective functioning of the government at all levels, I underline this, with increasingly systematic human rights violations, and slow and uncertain progress towards the EU. And these are the reasons why citizens are increasingly addressing this institution. So, discrimination is not that it is not reduced, it is increasing, and as regards the capacity of the Institution, there are still restrictions, particularly of financial nature. I don't think this House can just shut up these grades they're giving, and I'm thinking that we should, in some way, take a clear position today that support this institution will be one of the priorities when this House discusses the next financial planning for the work of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's one minimum we need to do today. And another thing here is that the process of electing new ombudsmans took place from 04.12.2014 to 17.11.2015, the institution was on an empty walk for a year, conditionally said. So, a year's duration of choice and procedure, and they, according to the ombudsmen's assessment, are actually directly affecting the activity and efficiency of this institution. And the second conclusion, here it should be, therefore, that the Parliamentary Assembly will do everything possible to simplify this procedure and to reduce that deadline, so that it does not actually lose a whole year when the Ombudsman is appointed that this institution cannot work at full capacity. These are some of the things that I think our conclusions should reflect a positive attitude towards the work of this institution and the necessity of our support to such an important institution. Not to go further into the Report, so just go from how effective the courts are and how much negative energy is actually involved in implementing the Ombudsman's solution and the ombudsman's decisions and how irrationally time is wasted, so that trust in this entire system is completely lost. And my proposal, therefore, is that we have one general conclusion that will go to the necessity of strengthening this institution, simplifying the appointment procedures and strengthening the logistical support of this institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1888	Mr. Raguž, I am obliged to ask the Rules of Procedure, so these are rhetorical conclusions, or are you going to suggest them in writing so that we can make a statement about them?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1889	Well, I think this is, uh, first if there's a mood isn't a problem, but I think this report deserves a kind of conclusion like this. If people think it is..., but I really think it is justified that these are three strong arguments that in one general conclusion of the House of Nations we say – Because of the importance of this institution, the House of Nations will take special care of the position of the Ombudsman when adopting the budget for the next 37 years. And will in particular consider the possibility of simplifying the procedure of selecting the Ombudsman in order not to be so... Here are the two conclusions that need to be made very clear, and I can write them now, here.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1890	I ask you to, indeed, materialize them for our record, we can, of course, put them on adoption since they are clear, I don't think the delegates have a problem with this if they haven't gotten the conclusions divided on the table, so we'll plead when we make a statement about everything. Are there other requests for participation in the debate? There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. So, first we vote on the Annual Report on the results and activities of the Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present, 11 were for, against no one, three delegates were abstained. From the Federation of BiH – 8 for, against no one, abstention 1, from Republika Srpska – 3 for, against none, abstention 2. There is a general majority, there is an entity majority, so I find that the Annual Report on the results of the activities of the Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015. Now we move on to a statement on the conclusions proposed by the distinguished colleague, Mr. Martin Raguž. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present, 10 were for, against no one, four delegates were abstentioned. From the Federation of BiH – 9 for, no one, abstentioned, from Republika Srpska – 1 for, against, no one, 4 abstentions. There's a general majority, but there's no entity majority, so we'll have a consult. [[/consultations of the College.]] There's no consent, so let's move on to a statement in the second round. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present – 10 were for, against the two were abstentions. 2. From the Federation of BiH – 9 for, against, no one, abstentioned anyone, from Republika Srpska – 1 for, versus 2, abstention 2. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority, so I find that the proposals of the esteemed colleague, Mr. Martin Raguž, have been adopted. Now we're going to work on item 23, and I'm also informing you that after that point, we're going to announce a break of up to two hours (14:00). And that's it, Ad. 23. Report on the establishment of a proposal for a run-list of candidates for the selection of three members of the Management Board of the Higher Education and Quality Development Agency, submitted by the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the conduct of the selection procedure of three members of the Management Board of the High Education and Quality Development Agency, issue: 01,02-50-14-868-12,1/16, since 06.04.2016.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1896	I thank the chairman. For this report, the Annual Report and the Financial Report of the Central Bank of BiH, I would use the presence of governors to ask – how the banking sector in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the work of the Central Bank may reflect this event in the banking sector in Republika Srpska, the liquidation of banks, bank bankruptcy, etc.? If you could take a look around.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1897	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. The word, I apologize, you will still have to return to your place, therefore, the procedure that we are facing, and I didn't think we would have this situation, so we haven't further explained it, is that the motioner has the right to final words, but in order to report all the other participants in the debate. You, of course, if you want to sign up as a participant in the debate, I ask you only to raise your hand and it will be possible for you, with Mr Mario Karamatić calling before you. Here you go, Mr. Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1898	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, here's a fellow Genjac and I have similar ties, and since he's already asking questions to the distinguished gentleman, let me ask the same question. So, the Central Bank of BiH has so much ingenuity and now I'm interested, seven, eight years ago when banks shared loans in Swiss francs, when the immeasurable damage was made to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, when, according to the precise calculations, the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina will pay about 900 million marks, which is slightly less than what we are now in debt to the International Monetary Fund in the next seven, eight years, it means an extra profit, when paid off and interest, and how much money they have received, and when it is known that loans in foreign currency, regardless of whether these loans are due to dramas, Yugoslav dinars, Croatian kunas or Swiss francs, could not have been obtained by anyone other than legal persons to pay invoices abroad – how are these loans approved by natural persons? Which is why the Central Bank didn't react at the time, which is why it didn't put pressure on the banking agencies of Republika Srpska and the Federation of BiH, and whether the Central Bank has any ideas on how to deal with this case now where we will be brutally robbed by an Austrian bank, like the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, where it will draw apart from the normal profit which, as a bank, still has an additional 900 million marks, i.e. 450 million euros? And I'm interested in whether you in the Central Bank have even talked about such a brutal violation of the laws and the positive rules on banking in Bosnia and Herzegovina or not?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1899	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. 41 The word has a respected governor of the Central Bank of BiH, Mr. Senad Softić. Here you go, Governor Softić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1900	Good afternoon, Mr. President. President and distinguished delegates, I'm glad I have a chance to speak to you. Let me begin by just a little bit to clarify the role and position of the Central Bank of BiH. Namely, we are the Central Bank of BiH with one and only task, which is to preserve monetary and financial, first monetary and later financial stability in Bosnia and Herzegovina, everything else remains at entity level. Supervision is at the entity level so when it comes to the response to Hypo Bank and all specific banks it's within the jurisdiction of the entity banking agencies. We chair the banking coordination where, this is the body where the directors of banking agencies, the Director of the Deposit Insurance Agency and the Central Bank participate. We're discussing these things, but we don't have the authority to deal with it, it's a relationship between the Banking Agency and a particular commercial bank. We're sorry that we don't have a position like some other central banks in our environment and in the world that they have such ingenuity, so you'll be denied for answer, direct answer. But we know what this is about, we have some consultations and what you've said stands, although this latest letter with the IMF is about to touch a little bit of the conversion of those, but that's not in line yet, so we're going to see what the IMF's reaction to that problem is going to be. You know that entity parliaments adopt such laws. As for the banking sector, the governor is chaired by the Management Board of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Deposit Insurance Agency, whose authority is the payment of secured deposits. The truth was that last year we had a Bobar Bank and this year we are not happy about it, the Deposit Insurance Agency has enough funds to settle secured deposits and it guarantees it, and secured deposits. Your procedure is about like this, a secure deposit is paid up to 50,000 marks in the order of priorities, the Agency is third, but it also collects a good share of these deposits. So Bobar's bank has been paid somewhere close to 90 million, and 60 million has already been paid back over 60. For the Bank of Serbia 55 million are secured deposits, 30 million exist, slightly below 30mm, on the mandatory reserves of Banka Srpska, so that around 25 to 30mm are expected to pay off secured deposits from the Deposit Insurance Agency's Fund. We'll respect it because it's our responsibility, so we don't expect any problems here either. The general picture is not good because it's a negative message, we're not happy about it either, but we're willing to respect it and we'll do it on our part. We still don't think the banking sector in Bosnia and Herzegovina is at risk, because these are, I say, smaller banks. We have large system banks, and if they, their business, were to be questioned then it would have a significant impact on our banking, or financial sector. All the predictions are that it won't happen. If you had the opportunity to get acquainted with the letter of intent with the IMF, a very large part is dedicated to the financial and banking sector, i.e. monetary and financial stability in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The coordination at the level of banking agencies, the stronger role of the Central Bank, stronger exchange and faster and exchange of information between the entity levels and the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so in this respect we are optimistic that we will have a stable situation in the coming period, even though the overall situation in the financial sector, not only with us, but also in the world, is not exactly at an enviable level. I hope I'm... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1901	Thank you, Governor. 42 Just sign in, Mr. Genjac. It's, what, a comment?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1902	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1903	Okay, replica, let's say. Here you go, Mr. Genjac, replica. The word has a distinguished colleague, Mr. Halid Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1904	There may be another debate,...dots we have the right to two discussions. I thank the governor for the answer, uh, but, therefore, when it comes to the Bobbar Bank, it was said that out of the 90 million, which the Banking Agency, for deposit insurance, has returned 60. So 30 is controversial, 30 million is questionable, as I understand it. When it comes to Banka Srpske, out of the 50 million she has guaranteed, paid back, it is expected to return 25, given what you said, that this one is the third-place insurance agency to settle bankruptcy. From this it follows, 30 plus 25, that somewhere around 55 million would remain controversial in these two banks, or otherwise said that this adventure would cost citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina 55 million. Did I get it right?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1905	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1906	Now you're just saying the word to yourself, aren't you? I mean, Mr. Genjac, we understand each other, right, what am I talking about?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1907	Oh, yeah, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1908	Is your replica going or what?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1909	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1910	Replica, Mr. Softić. And I expect a continuation of your conversation.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1911	Thank you. Let me explain. The amount of the secured deposit in the Bobar Bank was 90 million, and it was paid. All deposits up to 50, up to an individual amount of up to 50,000 were paid. Over 60 million were returned, the process was not completed. So we expect another part of the funds to come back. 43 __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] No, I don't. Indeed, from the governor's position I can't do that to you, I came here today as governor to speak to you. As for Banka Srpske, 55 million is secured by deposits. The Serbian Bank has 30 million in its account. So 25 million will be, by 30, spent from that account and 25 or 30 million from the Deposit Insurance Agency, 55. Now, I'm gonna go... it's gonna be a much smaller difference between that. So, I may not have made myself clear, I'm sorry. After all, the Agency has to carry one piece, which is why there is, I'm sorry to say so. It's a good thing there's a deposit insurance agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1913	Thank you, Mr. Softić. He has a word, a replica, an esteemed colleague, Mr. Mario Karamatić. Here you go, Mr. Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1914	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the governor for his answer, but I, as well as my colleague Genjac, will turn out to be in some sort of agreement, and believe me, we haven't had any consultations before, asked another question. You have made it very clear that the Central Bank is doing a supervisory work on entity banking agencies, as well as that loans, in particular in Swiss francs, are in the exclusive jurisdiction of entities banking agencies. However, what I am interested in – which is why, while you were doing the supervisory work, when you saw that the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina were brutally robbed, you did not report either this House or anyone that there was an ongoing... robbery of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, that huge funds were illegally, illegally withdrawn from Bosnia and Herzegovina and sent to the EU, specifically to the Republic of Austria? It's random from there and it's high representative, but I'll believe it's a coincidence, just as I'll believe it's a coincidence that the former Federal Prime Minister, Mr. Jerko Lijanović, has remained in debt to Hippo Bank millions, millions and tens of millions of loans that they gave him, which they wrote off, and that he was in extremely good relations with a high representative. So it could all be a coincidence. What I am particularly interested in, while you were doing the supervisory work and when you saw a bank in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina paying loans to citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina who can't and shouldn't pay for it, which is why you didn't respond and why you didn't warn anyone about it?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1915	Just a moment, so we must respect the Rules of Procedure to the extent that it is, therefore, a framework. Mr. Softić, after what you asked, has the right to practically only one more replica, this is the third time that it is included in the discussion. So I really ask openly if any of the delegates have a need not to later deny Mr. Softić's ability to answer any questions, and of course he, as a proponent of this report, has his rights. So, Mr. Softić, I expect you won't be later... 44
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1916	Thank you very much. I'm sorry I didn't make myself clear. The central bank has never been a super-vision to anyone, nor has it been her mandate under the law, so never. Your question has been addressed to the directors of the entity banking agency, not to the governor and not to the Deposit Insurance Agency. I just said that we coordinate work, there's one body of coordination where we discuss the situation, Tim, but we don't discuss specific credit arrangements between some clients and a certain commercial bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1917	Thank you, Mr. Softić. Mr. Karamatić, you're answering again after the discussion, you mean the replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1918	Thank you. So I'm asking to be delivered a stenogram of Mr. Softić's exposure, because he just said he didn't say what he said, so I have it in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1919	Mr. Karamatić, your reaction has entered the stenogram of today's session and I ask the sekretarijat to respect this as an official request. Thank you. We've exhausted the discussion, I'm closing it. We're moving on to a plea. We are voting on reports from the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015. Thank you. Out of the 13 delegates present - 10 delegates were for, against two delegates, one delegate was abstained. From the Federation of BiH – 8 for, against, no one, abstentioned 1, from Republika Srpska – 2 for, 2 against, no one abstained. There is a general and entity majority, so I find the Annual and Financial Report of the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015 adopted. Moving to point 26, Ad. 26. The financial plan and plans of the programme BHRT1 and BHT1 for 2016, the report on the implementation of the planning documents for 2015 and the report on the financial performance audit carried out by BHRT for 2015, the material of the Management Board of BHRT, number: 01,02-29-1212/16, of 22.04.2016. You have received the opinion of the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The Commission did not accept the 2015 Implementation Report, the 2015 Financial Audit Report of BHRT’s financial 45 operations and did not take into account the 2016 financial plan and plans of the BHRT programme. The House of Representatives at the 29th session, held on 11/05/2016, did not adopt the financial plan and plans of the BHRT and BHT programme for 2016, the report on the implementation of the 2015 planning documents and the report on the audit of BHRT’s financial operations for 2015. I give my word to Mr. Sead Kadić, as Vice-President of the Commission, if he wishes. Thank you, as in the report. I give the word to the Reporter, if he wishes. Thank you, as in the report. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? Application, dear colleague Mario Karamatić. Here you go, Mr. Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1921	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And here I read carefully the audit report and the BHRT report, and there it is, so they have a plan, they actually had a participation in the 2016 Eurovision, here and we participated, you saw what it looked like, our representatives pulled a couple of feet of barbed wire and a roll of aluminium foil onto the stage, it didn't come to a glorious conclusion. What were the criteria if they went there, let's not exactly detail it, I wouldn't get too far into it. The fact that I can refer to this, so I'll repeat what I've been saying for over a year, it's time to sit down and make a new law on BHRT that will make all the people in this country happy, all the peoples are satisfied, because this way obviously can't function how it currently works. In the report on BHRT's work, we have very clearly written that the Federal Television and Radio Television of Republika Srpska do not adhere to the Law on Public TV Service. I think that's the point under which we can't go any further, if we have two of the three public broadcasters who don't follow the law we should be working on, I think that's the bottom I touched and that we can't go on. We also have a situation that the report on the work of the Public TV Service states very clearly that the decision we voted in this House on the extension of the subscription until 30.06. this year is basically just extended agony, because nothing solves it. And of course nothing solves, even when you have a 30-million-dollar financial plan, and the beginning says that 12 million will be minus, it's obvious that it's inconclusive. What I appeal to, here we are, members of the Presidency, both entity parliaments, is to sit down quickly and make a new Law on Public TV Service and decide whether Bosnia and Herzegovina needs this kind of public TV service. Because watch out, gentlemen, and ladies of course, with the greatest respect, we've entered such a gray zone that we have in the first three months of this year, except for the decline in payment of a 240 thousand-mark TV taxi, if I remember correctly, monthly, we have a situation that we've been doing absolutely against the law, because the temporary funding expired from 31.12 last year, and only in the fourth month we've made a decision on the extension until 30.06. During that period, some 7 million marks were paid to telecom operators' accounts, divided between Republika Srpska Radio Television, Federal Television, and one part came to BHT. Now, I'm asking you here, there's a similar question here and there about the Central Bank -- will anyone be responsible for what we illegally charged from our citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina 7 million marks? I remind myself that there was no legal legislation at the time to charge for it, so we knowingly robbed our citizens for 7 million marks, Bosnia and Herzegovina. We charged them 46 taxes under the law that didn't exist. So what now? In 30.06., temporary funding expires. The question is, will BHT last until 30.06. Absolutely that question? I was just joking with Evrovizija, it's absolutely no joke if there's going to be a Football Championship transfer next year, we're going to be able to send anyone to Eurovision at all, and even if Dina is just gonna bring the aluminum foil again, he doesn't need barbed wire at all. So it's a big question and that's it, so we've come to a point of no return. And we literally, I'm saying this absolutely unrelated to the BHT Report, we have to make a decision, a political decision whether we're going to solve the public service problem, or we're going to let public services choke on the current legal basis, which their reports say at least two out of three don't adhere to legal regulations, and believe me, it doesn't stick to a third because he illegally took payment money. So our public services don't work one under the Public TV Service Act. And I have often said in this House, this Law on Public TV Services that should have ended with the corporation, that the story is definitely over, now that I'm not repeating myself, because I've spoken many times, and we have to do a new Law on Public TV Service or we have to be ready to shut down public services and we're going to become a black hole in Europe, that we won't have them, that we're just staying on commercial televisions. What, of course I'll be against the report, I mean I can't support a financial plan that says at the start it's going to be 12 million in debt, actually short, and already there's 5 million in debt only from last year, but there is, of course, I can't support it. And I'm saying, it's not a question at all whether we're going to adopt this today or not, because it doesn't mean anything at all, the question that I'm asking us all here – are we going to start dealing seriously with the public service problem in a way that we still have or we're just going to let BHT go out first, after that, to shut down the Federal Television, which is going to die 20 days right behind BHT because there's no one to make a program, after that inevitable order comes to RTRS, and then we have nothing. It's a acceptable option for me personally, but I believe most colleagues are not. And here, once again, I really ask you to take this topic seriously, to make a new Law on Public TV Service, which will make all the nations happy, by which all the nations will have their own channels and that all the peoples will finance. And to put it in the legal frameworks and to make that law that we're doing, because obviously the one that we currently have, which is imposed by the international community, and that's specifically the international community, is not going to finance our public TV service, and she told us what it's supposed to be, it's fair to pay, so here it is, right there, they'd say it's a public TV service of OHR and a finished story. However, they are asking us to finance it, and here is the Croatian people not satisfied with the Public TV service, I believe that a good part of the Serbian people is not satisfied with the RTV service and I am convinced that a good part of the Bosniak people is not satisfied with the Public TV service. So now we have one imposed law, i.e. Two, two, two times they imposed, first law, then amendments, I'm talking about OHR, with which no one is satisfied in this country, asking us to finance it, and all three public broadcasters are working against the law, it says very clearly in this report. So BHT himself writes that two don't comply with the law, here I told you, and you know very well that our citizens illegally charged over 7 million marks of the RTV tax during the period when there was no legal possibility of charging it. And come on, there was more money going missing, and there were some trains that couldn't drive, and what a colleague once told me a long time ago, and for more people they didn't go to jail, I'm not asking anyone to go to jail, I'm not asking for criminal charges, it's been charged, it doesn't mean anyone's gonna pay him back those 15 marks he gave for those two, three months of subscriptions if someone accidentally paid. However, as the most legislative body in this country, we cannot afford to tolerate illegal work, especially illegal collection from our citizens. And I'm saying, the thing we need to do is either bring up a new Law on Public TV Service that will respect the existing state and ensure normal funding or make a decision to simply, as one of my favorite writers Branko Ćopić had the title of the book, to allow the dying of honey and over. Thank you. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1922	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. The word has a distinguished colleague, Mr. Halid Genjac. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1923	I thank the chairman. So today we're talking about Bosnia and Herzegovina's Public TV service, so Bosnia and Herzegovina's TV, BiH and Radio, we're not talking about entity services because we're not their founders. We are like the Parliamentary Assembly of the founders of the Public TV Service of BiH and we fully agree that the talk on what is on the agenda today should be serious and that we are serious about this. So, since we also adopted the Law on Bosnia and Herzegovina, and by adopting the BHRT Act, we are also founders of the Law on BHRTV Service, so, Bosnia and Herzegovina, I think we should, for example, ask why the period in which the tax charge was not regulated was not regulated? Let's see where our responsibility is, if we're going to challenge the legality of the charge in that period. I think that if it were a question of citizens who paid and they had the right to ask that question. But we have the right and obligation to ask the question – what about the illegal rejection of the legal obligation to pay the subscription for years, which lasted almost ten years and what eventually damaged about 30 million Service, what about it? Who will answer why the legal obligation was not fulfilled? So that's one thing. The second thing is, we have a pad to ourselves today as founders of the three documents we declare. When it comes to the report on the financial performance audit of BHRT for 2015, I read it, it was done by the auditor in accordance with all the principles of the audit and I found nothing anywhere, no reason for the report on the audit carried out not to be adopted here. When it comes to the report on the implementation of the planning documents for 2015, the document made up objectively, shows what has been done in accordance with the possibilities they are, in accordance with what we are also obstructing the formation of a corporation which we have allowed to happen and to prevent this service from performing its role in accordance with the law. He's an objective document and I don't see any reason not to adopt that document. I don't understand why the Commission didn't accept both the document and the other document. I think the Commission report should be rejected. The financial plan and plans of BH Radio and BH Television for next year also contain objective perspectives. The objective state of finance is cited, the objective state of play in the production of the programme, in the work, and the intentions of the management of what will be done next. So I think that, as founders, if we are acting responsibly, we need, first of all, to answer the questions raised in these documents and to resolve that the TV service of Bosnia and Herzegovina as a key element of statehood and as a key assumption for meeting the conditions on the European path in terms of the existence of a public broadcaster, in terms of its financial stability, in terms of editorial independence, that we are obliged as founders to, above all, take care of what is said in these reports and what we are drawn attention to. I therefore think that the Commission report should be rejected in any case and more committed to resolving the issues listed in these documents. Refusal of reports, rejection of these documents, especially without explanation, I don't think it's good and it doesn't lead in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1924	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. 48 Before we give the word to our esteemed colleague, Martin Raguž, an esteemed colleague, Mario Karamatić, appeared. Here you go, Mr. Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1925	I didn't mean to answer any more about this, I thought I'd said it all, but the exposure of a respected fellow Genjac made me want to. I know that the SDA is the central party of the Bosniak people and very powerful and influential, but I am not sure that it is so powerful that it can say that it accepts a financial report that initially says that there will be 12 million marks missing and that it will be able to bridge it. That's one thing. Secondly, I felt personally called when Mr Genjac said that part of the people illegally did not pay the subscription and I have a need in front of this House and in front of the entire public that I am not paying the TV subscription by following the positive laws of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I will explain this very briefly to you. Mr. Genjac has long been sitting in the House of Representatives or in the House of Peoples and has passed more or less all the laws that are in force in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and right here we see what damage it is from the influence of foreign powers and the imposition of laws on their part. As I have already said, this Law has been imposed by the High Representative and the OHR, which is probably why Mr Genjac did not follow that this Law is not compatible, means that it is contrary to the Consumers Act of BiH, to the Law on Liabilities, and to the 2008 Constitutional Court of BiH ruling, which clearly states that by its own record, I will now be talking about the Federation's space, so I can only charge public services with my own records. So, the Public Enterprise communally in Possuje, in Vis, where Mr. Genjac comes from, puts out a garbage disposal account, and the citizen is obliged to pay for it. Other own records unless there is a contract with the service provider, the citizen is not obliged to pay. I personally have never signed a contract with Federal Television where I will pay the subscription to the Public TV Service, and although I personally consider the Federal Television programme trash, it does not fall under the utility service. So it's some other favors and of course I'm not paying for it. Also under the Consumers Act, if you do not have a signed agreement with the supplier, you are not obliged to pay, as well as under the Bond Relations Act. So here we are again talking about the harmful effects of foreign forces that impose laws on us, we obediently nod our heads, and then we come into this position. Dear colleague claims that I
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1926	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1927	I don't pay by law, and I claim I don't pay by law. And here, I appeal to the Constitutional Court of BiH's verdict and the Constitutional Court is a roof body that decides in this country who is right. So the Constitutional Court says I'm right and everyone who pays to pay for it on a voluntary basis, because they don't owe it under any law. There is no law that can undo the Constitutional Court's decision. And I would like to pray, so before I or anyone starts calling for a non-payment of the TV subscription or members of my people, to read the positive legislation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, because we are not paying and we will not pay until we are satisfied with the Public TV Service, in accordance with the positive laws of Bosnia and Herzegovina and in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court of BiH. Thank you. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1928	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. On behalf of the People's House, we give up any responsibility for legal interpretations that would possibly be respected by one of the citizens when it comes to the position of any of the MPs. In addition, an esteemed colleague, Halid Genjac, came forward in the form of a replica. I apologize to Mr. Raguž for having to wait. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1929	I won't look back on this mix of legal interpretations, etc., but I have to react, and I think the chairman also had to react to terminology. You can't call a job the people who do their job trash. I ask you to preserve the dignity of this House, of us personally and of the institutions that we are talking about today.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1930	Mr. Genjac, you're absolutely right, as our people say, I stopped to intervene when it came to it, but during the further appearance of Mr. Karamatić during his replica, I felt that it would probably only further strengthen the intensity of all this, and I was hoping that it would pass in some calmer version without my intervention. I think today's day and the beginning of the session was such that he suggested the possibility that we'd hear something we couldn't hear, but good. Mr Karamatić, with all due respect, you are of course entitled to your second replica, but I ask you to respect the position of Mr Genjac, who I repeat and as the attitude of this House when it comes to relations with the rapporteurs and their work. Here you go, Mr. Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1931	Absolutely respecting Mr. Genjac's position as a utility company, here's a better word is waste, if that's the way out of this situation, so let's cut this debate short, and here's the reason and the day and I don't intend to report on this anymore. It's interesting, however, that no one has denied me in that legal section. Because I just want to ask us all a question again – are we going to have public services or are we not going to have public services? And as for his belief that, in a particular case, I think it refers to federal television, to do good work, the basis of journalistic reporting is impartiality, justice and the truthfulness of reporting. Now I really want to know if there's anyone in this room who can claim that federal television is impartial and that it's reporting the truth. Here I'd really like to see him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1932	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. 50 The word has an esteemed colleague, Mr. Martin Raguž. Here you go, Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1933	Thank you. I just picked up for two reasons. One is the seriousness of this matter where we as the House of Peoples... adopted, I would say, quite high-quality conclusions based on even the public debates that were held by the Commission, or the Committee for Foreign Trade. By considering these reports and where we should not ultimately fall below that level, because we really wanted to contribute to the very serious and complex issues of the functioning of BHRT being dealt with seriously and responsibly. And when I look at these indicators in the report, I don't think any of us should be indifferent. And we here need to separate two things, not people and those who have responsibility for implementing the programme, preparing and realising, should be hostages to political relations in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Unfortunately they are, unfortunately they are, and I am, and that's the responsibility here as an envoy I want to say. And we cannot transfer that hot potato exclusively to them or to the greatest extent, even though they, of course, cannot escape from one part of their responsibility in business. And that's the essence of the story here. And we play hide-and-seek here all the time. And the last time there was an extension, uh, the validity of the law to this, we know how it came about, that there was no one vote or so. Why? Because there is no readiness for those who have the mandate for the executive power at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina to make an agreement on how to amend the law, to fix the law. And say it, not partially, that we move the ball over there all the time, and that's where it sinks. And here I now have to read the following information here for public reasons, the total unmistakable current obligations of BHRT are 21 million and something. It is clear that they could not have been settled, because BHRT could not have charged its claims from the broadcaster on the basis of the TV tax and the services provided, and if it had charged and realised the inflow, it would have an surplus of around 3.5 million and could have resolved even long-term obligations of 3 million. So what are we talking about here? So there is absolutely no function of the system as it is imagined, there is no corporation, there is no responsibility of the boards of directors. And... where I'm spinning around here. Well, I don't want that part of responsibility, and I said last time I won't be the one who wants to blow out a candle there. But I want us to make functional, plural, European, democratic television and that we can proudly and pay our subscription and watch the program and change channels, that's what I want. And here you avoid the debate, you keep coming back to that vicious circle that pays, who doesn't pay, and you run away from the fundamental debate about what this Public TV service is supposed to be and what the role of the legislator is. It's our role to change the law, and that's my answer in some way and Mr. Karamatić, it's up to us to change the law and not on BHRT, we're legislators. Shall we? Here, I suggest we do this, we do it here and the position and the opposition, and we don't wait until the deadline, because I think it should be one of the conclusions, and by the end of the deadline we have from the Council of Ministers a proposal to amend the Law on the Public TV System and to make our contribution to resolving these things, which will include a way that will define stable funding... and possible payment. This is a used model over a telecom, and we're just prolonging the aginia. Let's find a sustainable model to find sustainable, to make a contribution, but of course he had the right to launch a thorough, fundamental reform of this institution through a change of laws and relationships. By the way, it turns out we're all the same responsible for the collapse and such impossible conditions in which these people work. And I think they deserve much better, that most of them do their job responsibly and professionally, that it is up to us to find this sustainable model now, but parallel to the amendments to the laws that will allow it to be a European, plural, democratic, independent system that we will all support. And I don't think there's any progress without it, the agony will continue. We have concluded, we ask the Council of Ministers and those who have a mandate in the Council of Ministers, they have a responsibility, because it turns out this way. And so I'm going to end up, so some want to change and form multiple channels, it's a legitimate right, some refuse it, and one and 51 use it fantastically to hold their political positions, and the problem continues and the situation collapses. So there's us who don't want to be part of such political concepts and... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1934	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. With this, we've exhausted the discussion by this point of the agenda. I apologize, so Esad Gotovuša, the chairman of the board of directors, answered his word. Here you go, Mr. Gotovuša. You're not the first time, you know the time-related proposition, so there's no need to warn you. I'm saying this because there's been a lot of questions, so I'm guessing you'll need to concentrate and time on all the issues. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1935	Thank you very much. I welcome all present MPs, guests and media representatives. I'll be very brief. Since today's topic is Work and Business Reports, the Audit Report and the 2016 Plan of BHRT, I want to say the following. What BHRT did in 2015, so we delivered to the Parliament which is our founder and under the law we are obliged to deliver it to you. ... the circumstances mentioned in our report, with an uninterrupted month-to-month decline of the RTV tax and the struggle to accomplish a public broadcaster mission. With all these difficulties, the public broadcaster mission at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina has been achieved, both in a way and to a good extent, even better than when it comes to finance. We had no objections from neither the Regulatory Agency nor the viewers, nor the listeners, etc., therefore, all according to the programming principles and based on the law. BHRT works exclusively and in accordance with the law, so I am responsible here. The Board of Directors of BHRT stands at the point of view, please form any commission, a cut-off commission, so to explore BHRT's business. It's as transparent as it was delivered to you. When it comes to the quality of the program, anyone can have an opinion. Could he have been, and we think he could have been much better if the financial conditions had allowed us to make a much better program. But that's how it is. The business loss of 5 million is listed which is why it is also in the Auditor's Report and in our Report. If we are talking about the Auditor's Report and why it was given with the reserve, it was given with a reserve for the simple reason that two entity public broadcasters didn't work according to the law and transferred, what their obligation was, part of the tax collected from the incasans, that's one problem. And secondly, the drastic number of fixed phone subscribers and the drop in total in the RTT fee system. Plan, I'll be very selective, so I'll go straight to the 2016 Plan. How is it possible to make a plan for a year in advance if you have a continuous decline in basic income from month to month? If we had a loss of 5 million and something in 2015, and if we have monthly, here's the data for the first four months, 1,600,000 marks from the tv fee, how can you plan in a year what will happen next, and therefore we have things, so we don't take any solutions so that the tv tax question is regulated and that we have a stable source of funding. From here on out, the projected loss as it is, although we have long discussed how it is possible to make a plan, especially in 2016 which is for public broadcasters, I will say this, rich year, rich in content, because there are held world championships, Olympics, European championships in those even years, and make such a plan, so 52 in an unknown perspective... Since it's a legal obligation to make a plan, we made it, as it is. What this Parliament has asked of us, therefore, that in the past period, I am speaking for 2015, is a first report to submit a BHRT report with all problems by 11 months. We delivered it to Parliament. After that the measures were requested, we also delivered the measures that we..., they are listed in this report as well. So the parliamentary issues, and they were delivered, according to one home, and towards another home, and according to the Council of Ministers. The proposal to settle the tv fee, we offered two proposals in a year, we didn't get out of place. Since it's being transferred, meaning to the System Committee that he's responsible for the tv tax, here's how much she's responsible for, but if we're not like the System Committee in the previous years, we could solve that issue, and it's about laws, law enforcement, here's a year we're working with you, I'm talking to Parliament, and we're not out of place again. I'm finishing up, April of this year, BHRT made an inflow of a 728,000 KM TV tax. This cannot settle the basic salary without contributing to employees, let alone the service of costs of production, processing and broadcasting of programmes, and the service of debts. What follows, I said it yesterday on the commission, I want to tell you, by the end of the month we are..., so we are already on the red list and... exclusion by the end of the month unless we pay 1,250,000 Swiss francs, means the exclusion from..., the disabling of all those events and programs that are tied up and that go through..., European championships, the Olympics, etc., the exchange of news and everything else. And not only that, but going back to the institutions... isn't when you pay for it, so you're right inside, not but the process lasts a little longer again. It means from that point of view when we speak, and that means... Bosnia and Herzegovina, so what can happen? And what can happen through the programme, on Monday, the BHRT Management Board will have a session, and we will approach drastic measures from sending people to annual, forced vacations, service cuts and federal television and TV Republika Srpska and me, a different variant does not exist. We're ready to work together with you, the Council of Ministers, to get rid of that basic income, so if we have to solve it, we're working on the law, but we're implementing the law, and you're bringing it here. We'll give everything we need from us, help of any kind, but you're still here legislative, you're passing those laws, and we're here to enforce them. I thank you for your attention, and I hope you won't allow yourself to be shut down. If BHRT goes out, it'll shut down one by one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1936	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Ognjen Tadić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1937	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So it's not my intention to in any way give a grade that has the ambition to round up anything we've heard, not just today, but all these years when it comes to this system. Exactly what Mr. Genjac is saying is that today we are talking about a very concrete part of the system, but all these segments of this system are actually mutually in a dark situation as if they were moving one another and pushing into some kind of problem, in some kind of relationship to... reality in Bosnia and Herzegovina that has come to the point that it no longer works. And now we're going back a little bit, 53 as Mr. Karamatić says, some of the times we're talking about as the times of the beginning, so it's said it's a high representative, it's like this, it's like that, etc. I think, you'll let me, what Mr. Karamatić says, be a little bit and funny like this, I think those times of our beginnings when this is still from the first stage, here's when, first stage of Mr. Nović's political life, let's say so. So, this whole system, there were more of them, yes, the whole system that we're talking about today, so with all the changes in the engineers that have happened so far, it's still going down those tracks, it hasn't even reached the end of those tracks that were set up at the time. And that's why I see this as a three-dimensional question. First, this is, realistically, for all people who work in that system an emotional question, not so existentially, be careful if you haven't worked in that system you can hardly understand it. So there people of the year, for a decade, have spent as various forms of contractors, volunteers, etc., only with some huge desire to stay there, to integrate in that, because that is, that is, the way of life. And when you look at it from that perspective, it's not easy what happened to them, and the changes that happened in the meantime, which completely changed consciousness, etc., and now it has to naturally affect their behavior, their work, and they see it as something that belongs to them almost according to that system of joint work, they're there, that's theirs, they created it. And with any of them when you say it, they treat it that way. Now it's not patriotism, it's not this political dimension of that problem, so it's not from those motives that they say that television should exist because it's Bosnian Herzegovic, like this, so that we'll be in conflict with what Mr. Karamatić says. No, they really consider it their own house. I've worked there for a period of my life and I can partially understand these people, and I can, in part, before the war, so I can understand these people and their need to survive. But it's not just an emotion in the business, is it? There's got to be a lot more, as I'd say, skills, some kind of management that can lead to us not having problems from year to year like we have. And now we're bonding with a high representative, a law that's not right, but it's not clear to us today, it was clear to us at the time, as many other laws that were passed over the knee that were known to be wrong, but it was said – well, accept, go through the Assembly, and we'll be able to change it later, whether, as was that provision, the decision of the High Representative, says – first adopt what I adopted, and then change it if you want. So when you adopt it, you legitimateize it, and then you never have a majority to change anything better. And that's how it got into some kind of vicious circle. And that's where we get to this political dimension. With all due respect, I don't think it's possible to describe the BHT programme in a way that has both comments and third, so we have to roll. So that's what I'd say, first of all, it's not so much, with all due respect, an influential political programme in this sense in which it's for daily and political life. You even stick to that a lot of things, and congratulations on that, it's okay to work, but by doing so you lose some kind of attractiveness, and that's okay. So that's not why. This is more about a political dimension that is related to some kind of, some kind of problem in a rational relationship with semilogical phenomena in this country, so everything that has the name BiH has, however it works, only let it exist and let it push on. And that's what we have in the Armed Forces of BiH, we have in this form of justice, here's what we have in this Constitutional Court, today we've heard something about it, etc., and so is BHT. And so without a change of discourse, let's say well, whatever it's called, that it's really good, that it's of interest to the people here who live, there's no, uh, no progress, there's no simple progress. The third dimension is this business. And there I agree with Mr. Genjac, there's nothing that isn't true... and when you look at the report as a report as to how you don't vote for a report that's correct. But exactly this year, exactly and last year, exactly and last year, exactly and last year, exactly and years ago, but always a minus, always a minus, and the news goes, I mean the minus goes deeper and deeper, this, and the news goes, says – a report has been adopted. So, something's like good, that's kind of an experience of everything but. 54 So something here on the business plan must change, you are this, if that's the solution to what you were talking about earlier, I accept. Deny these, deny those, introduce discipline, charge, etc. Well, logically, if there is any obligation to you that you must pay them, and Parliament should not give support to that. So there are courts designed to regulate if these people are not able, that is, those institutions by peaceful means, to resolve these obligations. So there's no disputed support at all. That's why I'm telling you, therefore, our relationship with this report as negative... means as a vote against this, as Mr Karamatić described, it should, at least we hope, have these effects. On an emotional plan to wake up those people who work there, to realize that no matter how much they're connected to it is not theirs, but that it's a public good that belongs to every man who lives in this country. On this political plan to awaken political factors, so that they understand that something has the name of Bosnia and Herzegovina does not guarantee that it will survive, but that the political discourse must adapt to make it truly vital, which means again that it fits every single person here. And thirdly, on this business plan, to understand that the exact loss list is not something that deserves the least kind of plus, but it deserves to be treated with people who manage there and say – we can't do this, let's go further to solve it by someone who can. And then the conditions are created in that change of consciousness, and what Mr. Genjac is saying that I agree with, and Mr. Karamatić, and all of us over a decade behind us, and that's to sit down, that unpopular word that we sit down, as if we don't sit down and sit down all the time, and make a law that, I'm not the author of such a beautiful coin, but it seems to me now that it's appropriate, which helps us public service, in total, now I'm thinking of all these three segments, is not so. Public service than to really do your job to what we as their founders... In that sense, I explain my negative position, so not against anyone but for new solutions that will help this to exist in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1938	Thank you very much. The word has Mr. Mario Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1939	Here, Mr. Tadić has managed to sublime more or less my discussions and discussions Mr. Genjac and Mr. Raguž, none of us are in favour of shutting down the Public TV service, we just want him to be established legally. And he was offered a truly emotional exposure by Mr. Gotovuša, and here is Mr. Tadić, who says he had a chance to work there for a while, understanding the thinking of these employees at the Public TV service, I unfortunately have to tell them one thing – comrades and friends of Yugoslavia are gone, this is Bosnia and Herzegovina, this is a capitalist society and there is no possibility that anyone can subsidise any loss. So you have to fight for your position on the market, you have to do at least a positive zero, if you're going to survive. So, very simply, Communism is gone, we've barely brought it down, I know very well what I've seen while we've done it, and it's a finished story. So, we need to adapt to the market, we have a competition game, and you have to fight both entity operators and PINK and OBN and TV KIS and our TV, and for the marketing part, and for all that, and then it'll start to work. And from the wheezing of the worst, the worst anyone can get in a position to feel sorry for him, that's what I've experienced on my skin. And believe me, I'm sorry about BHT today, and that's not good, that's not good. I wish I didn't feel sorry for you, if I had any other feelings for you, and I'm really sorry for the BHT employee, they turn out to be a collateral victim of a high representative, through political relations, through public broadcasters, I say it's not good, but you're the ones who have to change that. 55 I say, no more Yugoslavia OUR this, theOUR of this, the one and the end says the party. It's not one game anymore. Look how many of us are here. The problems arise here and for nothing that Mr. Backović was at the Eurovision is one hand in the House of Representatives, where it is still for the most to come forward, it does not go so easily. You have to commit to a real fight on the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1940	Let's agree whether it's multi-party or multi-party systems. Thank you. I'm closing the discussion. We're moving on to a plea. We vote on the 2015 report on the implementation of the planning documents and the 2015 report on the audit of the financial operations carried out by BHRT. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Do you want to repeat or are you satisfied with the result, perhaps you are satisfied with the result? We repeat the vote, I beg you. Thank you. Out of the 13 delegates present, there were 5 delegates, 7 delegates, 1 delegate was abstained. From the Federation of BiH – 5 for, against 3 and 1 abstention, from Republika Srpska – no one for, 4 against, 0 abstentions. There is no general majority, so I find that the report on the implementation of the 2015 planning documents and the report on the financial performance audit of BHRT for 2015 has not been adopted. We are now moving to a statement on the financial plan and plans of the BHRT1 and BHT1 programme for 2016. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present, there were four delegates, seven delegates against them, two delegates were detained. From the Federation of BiH – 4 for, 3 against, 2 abstentions, from Republika Srpska – no one for, 4 against, 0 abstentions. There is no general majority, so I realize that the financial plan and plans of the BHRT1 and BHT1 programme for 2016 have not been adopted. Moving to point 27, Ad. 27. Information from the BiH Ombudsman on two arbitration proceedings under way, Act No 01,02-50-19-953/16, of 24/03/2016
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1943	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1944	Well, no, I'm not limiting you, I'm just saying. Here you go. Your Honor, Mr. Ljubić Mariofil. Here you go, Mr. Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1945	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Representatives. I'm taking the opportunity to point out the seriousness of these arbitration proceedings, because these two arbitration proceedings that are currently being conducted are worth about a billion and 400 million. Today we're discussing much less, at least that's what we wanted with this information to point out, you've made it a good conclusion, that knowledge is being received, because it wouldn't be good to take care of the details, because these arbitration procedures are in progress. I can only say that we are doing everything in accordance with the law and arbitration rules to challenge the allegations of arbitration charges. We can't discuss the details because they're in a different direction. We think it is good that you parliamentarians of this high House are familiar with all the procedures and to point to the seriousness of needs and more thorough analysis in the conclusion of bilateral agreements concluded by the Council of Ministers in the protection and promotion of foreign investment. So far, Bosnia and Herzegovina has concluded 43 agreements, and most of these arbitration proceedings stem from these agreements. Foreign investment, yes, but protecting Bosnia and Herzegovina's interests, because if agreements are concluded this way, means no matter what level of government it is, Bosnia and Herzegovina can and will be sued by the party in the arbitration procedure. We will therefore, in the coming time and towards the Council of Ministers, go with one intervention to try to limit the effect of all these contracts. So, I suggest that, what you have suggested, and we will continue, and probably in the coming time, we need help and yours, because we appreciate that if these procedures continue in the next stages, because we are, they mean at every different stage, these stages are so far covered by means of money, but if they continue to represent in these procedures they will need extremely high, large means for which we have so far asked and we have been able to do so, but I'm afraid if they continue to need your help, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1946	Thank you, Mr. Ljubić. I'm opening a debate. Here you go. There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. 57 We move to a plea. We are voting on the Information of the BiH Law Department on two arbitration proceedings, more specifically whether we are receiving it or not, or whether we are being abstained. Mr. Softić, are you looking for a repeat or is it?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1947	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1948	Of the 12 delegates present, 11 delegates were in favour, no one was against, and 1 delegate was abstentioned. From the Federation of BiH – 7 for, against, no one, abstentioned 1, from Republika Srpska – 4 for, against, no one, abstained. There is a general and entity majority, so I find that the Information of the BiH Ombudsman is on two arbitration procedures that have been adopted into knowledge. We are now voting on the Constitutional Commission's conclusion. Do you need me to repeat the conclusion? You don't have to. Thank you. Of the 12 delegates present, 12 delegates were in favour. From Federation 8 for, no one against, no one abstention, from Republika Srpska 4 for, no one against, no one abstention. There is a general and entity majority, so I find that the conclusion of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples has been adopted. Let's do it at 28th, Ad. 28. Information on IOR Recommendation 204 on the transition from informal to formal economy, adopted at the 104th session of the International Labour Conference, delivered by the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, issue 02-22-1642/15, since 29.12.2015 You have received the opinion of the Joint Commission for Economic Reform and Development of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The Joint Commission has received knowledge of the Information. The House of Representatives received information on the sequel to the 28th session, held on 11.05.2016. The word gives the rapporteur of the Joint Commission, if necessary. As in the report, thank you. I'll give the information to the applicant, if he's present and wants to. No, thank you. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. We're moving on to a plea. Thank you. Of the 12 delegates present, 12 were in favour. From the Federation of BiH 8 for, no one against, no one abstention, from Republika Srpska 4 for, no one against, no one abstention. There is a general and entity majority, so I find that the Information on the IOR Recommendation No. 204 on the transition from informal to formal economy, adopted at the 104th session of the International Labour Conference, has been adopted. 58 We move to point 29, Ad. 29. Information on International Labour Organisation Recommendation No 203 on additional measures to effectively combat forced labour – applicant: BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, issue: 01-37-981/16, since 25/03/2016
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1952	Mr. Ognjen Tadić has his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1953	In addition to the fact that the follow-up of the political relations that exist in Bosnia and Herzegovina has come to the transposation of the majority who participates in the support of the Council of Ministers, I feel obliged to, as chairman of this House and the man who was also in the earlier period while being the first deputy 59 chaired by this duty, I am indeed saying that these are moments in which people who have done their job well, and I think that Mrs. Koristović has done extremely well, and that this was a quiet force of this Parliament, which she felt and has contributed to making it more orderly than it was before, she gets that kind of, egg, again, as far as possible, recognition and satisfaction for our joint work so far. The electoral functions are such, they are not a relationship to personality, but a relationship to the majority that exists. Mr. Bojan Ninković, in his previous term, was relieved of his duties as secretary of the House of Representatives, I was relieved of my duties as a member of the College of the same House, and these are the things that are such in politics. You really consider this a part of your political life, and I thank you personally for this House College, and I hope that the man who comes into your position will do the same good work. Now, I also don't rule out the ability to change the vote during this, but of course we leave it for the very outcome of this agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1954	Maybe a little co-worker... [[Disable microphone]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1955	Thank you. There are no other applications for participation in the discussion. We're moving on to a plea. We are voting on a proposal for a decision on the discharge of the secretary of the Joint Service of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mrs Aida Koristović. Thank you. Of the 12 delegates present – 9 delegates were for, against 1 delegate, two delegates were abstained. From the Federation of BiH – 7 for, 1 against, no one abstention, from Republika Srpska – 2 for, no one against, 2 abstentions. There is a general and entity majority, so I realize that we adopted the Decision on the discharge of the Secretary of the Joint Service of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Mrs Aida Koristović, with this decision, of course, still going to the House of Representatives until Mrs Aida Koristović remains in the position she is currently in. Now we move to point 31, Ad. 31. Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of the Secretary of the Joint Service of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina A college of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH held at the 27th session, held on 27.05.2016, established a proposal for a decision to appoint the secretary of the Joint Service of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. You've received a motion for appointing. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. So let's move on to a plea. We are voting on a proposal for a decision to appoint a secretary of the Joint Service of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you. Of the 12 delegates present, 9 delegates voted in favour, 1 delegate was against, 2 delegates were abstained. From the Federation of BiH – 7 for, 1 against, no one abstention, from Republika Srpska – 2 for, against none and 2 abstentions. 60 There is a general and entity majority, so I find that we adopted the Decision appointing the secretary of the Joint Service of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, appointed Mr Vehabović Kenan as the secretary of the Joint Service of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. And this decision, of course, takes effect only after its confirmation in the House of Representatives. We're moving to point 32, Ad. Thirty-two. Proposal for a Supplement to the Decision appointing members of the Council of National Minorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Joint Committee for Human Rights of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue: 01,02-34-1185/16, since 20.04.2016
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1958	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, as a legalist, I can't support this. I'll try to explain to you very briefly why. At the last session of the Joint Committee on Human Rights, we had a gentleman's request to be appointed to this Council in front of the Palestinian National Minority, and the character made an association, 200 marks registered with the Ministry of Justice, otherwise he was born in Lebanon, and the request was rejected. I probably wasn't at this session, we have a National Minority Protection Act, which stipulates who these national minorities are, and 17 national minorities are listed, and this applies to the 1991 Act on the list of entities, i.e. 1991 census And now we should name this one, they've got to have two, so here's Mr. Davor and Mr. Valentin Incko, and he's already home, so I guess they found another two to plead as Austrijanac, that they've spent 200 marks, registered the association, and now they'd be in the Council of National Minorities. The question that we need to ask ourselves here means whether we want to raise that number from 17 to 78, because there will probably be three of us who will plead as Klingonac, and then four of us will declare that they are coming from Morocco, and then we will all suffer it in the Council of National Minorities, or, yes, what would be legitimate and legal if we are already applying the '91 census, to wait until the list is published, I guess it won't be long, here't even three years full that the residents have been listed. Of course, it's not India so if the announcement takes a year, we need a little more time, here I really hope in the next year, two days that we'll get about how many of us there are, who are resident, who are non-resident, how, like this, so let's see if there are Austrijanac, so we can put them in the legal solution that they have to be represented, not like this. I don't know who this gentleman represents, whose name he's invited here, who has delegated him. I'm not saying maybe there's 3% of Austrijanac in Bosnia and Herzegovina, weave it with a hammer... 61
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1959	I beg you, Mr. Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1960	Well, here's the president of the state, imposing laws on us isn't the first Austrijanac to do this to us.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1961	I know, Mr. Karamatić, but there's a free fight going on somewhere else.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1962	But come on, we won't... Most of the time, I'm saying from, by following the Law on the Rights of National Minorities which regulates what national minorities are, I simply can't support it at all, and I suggest that we don't make a statement today, that we adopt the conclusion that we'll make this clear, after the publication of the census, and we have a procedure to say exactly who is the national minority and then to act, so if the Austrijanac are also Austrijanac, let them also be Palestinac and Libanonac, it's absolutely irrelevant, but'means they have some norms, I don't think that it's good this ad hoc procedure whenever someone submits a request I'd be in the Council of National Minorities, come on no problem. I mean, it's not good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-1.u1963	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. Are there other applications for participation in the discussion? No, I thank and conclude the debate. We're moving on to a plea. We are voting on a proposal to supplement the Decision appointing members of the Council of National Minorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you. Of the 12 delegates present - 11 delegates were in favour, 1 was against, there were no abstentions. From the Federation of BiH – 7 for, 1 against, there are no abstentions, from Republika Srpska – 4 for, against and abstentions. There is a general and entity majority, so I find that we have adopted an addition to the Decision appointing members of the National Minority Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina by naming Mr Davor Ebner of the Austrian National Minority in this body. Moving to point 33, Ad. 33. Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, material of the Council of Ministers, issue: 01,02-34-1-1362/16, since 10.05.2016 You have received the opinion of the Commission for Foreign Trade Policy, Customs, Traffic and Communications of the House of Peoples. The Commission discussed the proposal of the Council of Ministers of BiH on the appointment of two members of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity from the Federation of BiH and proposed that the House accept the proposal of the Council of Ministers of BiH on the appointment of Suad Zeljković and 62 Nikola Pejić as members of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity from the Federation of BiH. The House of Representatives adopted the Proposal for Decision and appointed Suad Zeljković and Nikola Pejić as members of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina at the 29th session, held on 11/05/2016. I shall give the word to the rapporteur of the Commission, if he wishes. He doesn't want to, thank you. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? There's no report, I'm closing the hearing. We move to a statement on the proposal for a decision to appoint members of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you. Of the 12 delegates present, 12 delegates were in favour. From the Federation of BiH 8 for, no one against, no one abstention, from Republika Srpska 4 for, no one against, no one abstention. There is a general majority, there is an entity majority, so I agree that we have adopted a Decision appointing members of the State Regulatory Agency for Electricity from the Federation of BiH which has appointed Suad Zeljković and Nikola Pejić as members of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity from the Federation of BiH. Respected for today's session agenda, there is still agreement on ratification of agreements and agreements. I propose that we bring together the debate and the statement on points 34 to 36, including item 36 of the agenda and I give this proposal to the discussion. There are no reports, thank you, I'm closing the discussion. I call upon you to make a statement as to whether the approach to unification is acceptable. Thank you. Of the docking 12 delegates – 11 delegates were for, against no one was, there was a abstention of 1 delegate. From the Federation of BiH – 8 for, against, no one, abstentioned anyone, from Republika Srpska – 3 for, against none, abstention 1. There is a general and ethnic majority, so I realize that we have adopted a proposal to unite discussion and decision-making. Now we're going to work. Ad. 34. - 36. Grants of consent for ratification of agreements and contracts
