ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14545	Please take your seats to begin work. I am opening the 34th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I welcome all present MPs and guests. The absence was justified by MPs Staša Košarac, Milica Marković, Saša Magazinović, and the delays were announced by MPs Asim Sarajlić and Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Vagalica.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14546	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14547	I'm now getting information that a representative of the Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil will not attend the session. We have a quorum to work with. As you know, since this is the first session of the month, we have answers to parliamentary questions as the previous item of the agenda. We're moving on to asking questions. The first question comes from MP Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14548	Dear chairman, members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and fellow Members, honored guests. I'm the last time because there was no Justice Ministry, this time I greet him, I asked him a question that was about attacks on Serb convicts at the Penal jurisprudence Institute in Zenica. It is known that there have been two attacks in the last few days, that one attack was on the Orthodox holiday of Easter, where Serb national convicts were beaten, and the other recently was on Robert Jusić, who also experienced harassment, and not for the first time. In this problem there have also been words in several recent reports of the Ombudsman for Human Rights when it is suggested that the Ministry of Justice assumes the role of co-ordinator between the entity ministries of justice and that it is possible to address this problem, which means that convicts are staying, moving to prisons that are closer to their families. So, they have the right to, to create legal preconditions for that, Republika Srpska has done its part of the work, it seems to me that the Federation is tightening. Since you and this Ombudsman report are designed as coordinator to coordinate that activity, so that this will be over as soon as possible and that these cases will not be repeated, please tell me – What have you done on this plan and do you think that this problem will soon end or put an end to it, so that it will not be repeated? Thank you. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14549	Thank you. Do we have an answer? Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14550	The Honorable Chairman, members of the College, distinguished MPs and MPs, colleagues from the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. In the Zenica Penal Institute for Penalty, according to the County Court of Bihac, there are convicts Bajić Nenad and Predrag, and Siniša Babić for the crime of war crimes against the civilian population. The Bihac County Court conducted a reference by those convicts to uphold the fine under the Law on the execution of criminal sanctions against the Federation of BiH, so that, in a concrete case, the appointed prisoners held the prison under the supervision of the Federal Ministry of Justice, which means they did not have the status of prisoners in accordance with the laws of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is why inspection is in the jurisdiction of the Federal Ministry of Justice. However, regardless of the above, the BiH Ministry of Justice responded immediately on 04/05/2016 to request information from the Zenica Penal Institute regarding the events of 01/05/2016 on the grounds that those prisoners have the legal possibility that, in accordance with Bosnia and Herzegovina's law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, detentions and other measures, they are required to enforce the sanctions imposed in accordance with the laws of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Since the crimes in the area of international humanitarian law, or war crimes, are a crime against humanity, genetics and others in the exclusive jurisdiction of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Penal Code, and those convicted persons have the legal opportunity to apply the provisions of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, detention and other measures, which would establish the jurisdiction of the BiH Ministry of Justice. In its act, the Ministry of Justice requested the Management of the KPZ Zenica to meet those prisoners on the front and legal grounds and to forward them to the Ministry for further jurisdiction, in accordance with the law, and to provide information on the events of 01.05.2016 at the same time. To this day, the Ministry of Justice has no knowledge that prisoners have applied for state law, which is why we have not been able to take any action to protect and move them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14551	Thank you. poslanica Majkić has the right to answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14552	Thank you for this information, I ask you to deliver it in writing. They probably don't know about the possibility, but this would be a solution, so thank you and get me that proposal as soon as possible. Thank you. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14553	Thank you. The question is asked by Ambassador Senad Šepić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14554	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. This should be a renewed issue today by the chairman of the Council of Ministers concerning preventing the negative trend in leaving Bosnia and Herzegovina. Since I have already received one piece of the answer in writing, this one in writing and after I collect more detailed information, I will renew this issue at the next session, so that in this sense we can have a better approach to this issue. I'll leave this part for the next session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14555	Thank you. The next is Ambassador Damir Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14556	I thank the chairman. I have no announced question for this session, I suppose, given that the question I asked at the last session was not a representative of the ministry there, but at the time I stressed that it was then delivered to me in writing, I asked the question orally and stressed that it was delivered to me in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14557	You didn't get a question in writing until now, did you?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14558	You mean the answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14559	Answer, answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14560	I'm not, I'm waiting. I've been waiting a long time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14561	All right, let's move on, Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14562	Ladies and gentlemen. I ask the question of the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. In recent years, especially in the last five years, continued and planned blows towards the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina by individual authorities and representatives of Republika Srpska entities have been taking place. It would be extremely naive to think that it was some kind of song activity. I'm here to publicly say that it's four planning activities that are targeted on the basis of certain documents. The impact, therefore, takes place on the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and on the basis of a document made by foreign lobbyists and which delivered the document to representatives of Republika Srpska. Key words in the document are the agreement state, Bosnia and Herzegovina state union, the Council of Ministers is being drawn up, an independent Republika Srpska in Dayton Bosnia and Herzegovina, so all that we have been listening to for the past five years is in the document. I ask the question of the chairman of the Council of Ministers – Do you, as chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH, know about this document by which Milorad Dodik and his followers plan to destroy the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and its institutions? That is, therefore, my question to the chairman. Given that the situation is becoming more serious, today is the 16th day of an entity coup against the constitutional order of Bosnia and Herzegovina and I think it is high time that all authorities in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international community react most seriously to such a very dangerous situation that is becoming more dangerous from day to day. When I talked about it 10 days ago, I was saying that we could get into things like this, and now here's 10 days later at this session we're all witnessing how to further radicalise the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We as public officials must react decisively to this. So my question is addressed to the chairman of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14563	Thank you. Chairman Zvizdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14564	Thank you. I welcome the respected leadership and esteemed distinguished MPs and MPs. I thank you for the question, and my answer is this, that the BiH Council of Ministers, in accordance with its competences, is working to ensure full protection of constitutional and political order in Bosnia and Herzegovina and all conclusions, overall activity, the activities of the Council of Ministers of all these two thousand materials that we have adopted in the past 16 months, and 17 months have gone towards strengthening the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, strengthening both the internal and international status and the position of Bosnia and Herzegovina as sovereign states with its territorial integrity, constitutional sovereignty and international justice. I'm not familiar with the particular document you're talking about. If such a document exists, and if you know about it, from your question to suggest that you know about the existence of such a document that works or points to the destruction of the constitutional and legal order of Bosnia and Herzegovina, then certainly, and that you are also in charge of representing and as the former chairman of this House, you should send it to authorised institutions, so to the Intelligence and Security Agency, the Prosecutor's Office and other institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina that are in charge of preventing the destruction of constitutional and legal order or of affecting the security of all citizens or sovereignty of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, about a document like that specifically you're talking about, I'm really not familiar with it, and I support that they deal with it by the competent institutions. And I certainly invite you to inform both the Council of Ministers and all other institutions, so to OSA, SIPA and the Prosecutor's Office of such a document, the contents of such a document, the actors in charge of the destruction and destruction of sovereignty and the constitutional and legal order of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because it is a very, very serious matter and in that sense I agree with you. So we expect this kind of action, reaction and presentation of such a document. Thank you. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14565	Thank you. Comment on the answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14566	I agree with the chairman that this really is a very serious issue and I think there are more people in this country who know about this document and we need to sit down and talk about it. The document bears the title – Annex IV according to the US Constitution, subtitle – Method of origin and survival of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The document has been worked out on dozens of pages. All this seems to be happening to us in the last 5 years there is a precise description, including this referendum, and in the end as the conclusion of this document is that there is only two solutions to Bosnia and Herzegovina, one is said to be divided into three republics and the creation of a confederation, and the other is agony of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with only a question of when it is necessary to formally establish in the coming years that Bosnia and Herzegovina has fallen apart. I think that we as public officials are obliged to take these threats seriously, the devil has taken a joke to this country, and that all together, those who wish to do so, stand in the protection of constitutionality and legality in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In doing so, of course, we must also ask for assistance from the international community.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14567	Now I don't get it, let's not open the debate, so is there a document?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14568	Can I answer that?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14569	You can, I don't mean because it's being transmitted because of people who follow, is there some kind of document that no one's ever seen.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14570	I would officially like to say that such a document has come to me with such a title, and when I read the contents of this document, then everything is clear to me what has happened and how it has happened in the past five years... by the leadership of Republika Srpska.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14571	Okay, so you have that document that, well okay. Thank you. Mirsad Mešić, question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14572	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. On March 17th, I submitted an initiative to the Council of Ministers to address the problem of using the purchase and use of drones, called drones, by amending and supplementing the law. Mrs. Krišto, who was then chairman, sent the request to the Council of Ministers, unfortunately there is no information to date on what the proposal is about. I asked the Minister of Transport and Communications to answer this question. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14573	Thank you. Here, is there an answer? Here you go. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Do you accept it in writing or should we wait for the minister and the deputy?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14575	...respecting, of course, the jurisdiction and the secretary, I will still wait for the minister until next time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14576	Thank you. jasmin Emrić, question.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14577	I thank the chairman. I am an MP, and I believe that my fellow Members and colleagues have received a letter from the Federation of BiH Employers Association asking us to ask the parliamentary question of the BiH Finance and Treasury Minister as chairman of the Board of Directors of the Direct Taxation Directorate. The question of interest of the Federation of Employers Association of the Federation of BiH reads – When will the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Authority adopt the Regulation on amendments to the Regulation on the application of the VAT Act relating to the amendment of the provisions of Articles 94 and 95. A rule book? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14578	Thank you. Minister Bevanda.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14579	Good afternoon, welcome to the president and vice presidents, esteemed MPs and others present. The question of the gentleman, the esteemed representative Emrić, has not been precisely formulated. The letter states that the representative raises the question in relation to the amendments to Articles 94 and 95. Regulation on the application of the VAT Act. As the Federation of BiH Employers Association submitted an initiative today to amend Articles 94 and 95. Regulation on the application of the VAT Act which regulates the way in which VAT is returned to foreign persons. The point of the amendments required by the Employers' Association is to enable the return of VAT to companies in Croatia and Slovenia, Switzerland, Italy, Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Hungary under the conditions of reciprocity. Also in the initiative, they argue that Bosnia and Herzegovina would achieve an increase in revenues on this basis of around 100 million marks annually. As chairman of the Management Board, I received this initiative on 26th of July, which means 7 three, four days ago. What I can respond to at this point is that I will deliver the initiative, as well as all other initiatives, to the members of the Management Board and delegate to the meeting of the Management Board of Direct Taxation, in order to take a position on the proposals made. To take any position of the Management Board quite normally precedes a detailed analysis of the Administration, since analysis and evaluation of associations and other stakeholders cannot be taken as the only relevant. The analysis must clearly show what... was the financial effect of these changes and ultimately say that even under the existing legislation there is the possibility of a return of VAT from foreign persons through the prescribed procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14580	Thank you. Commentary, Ambassador Emrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14581	I thank the Minister for his reply. I think the question was very precise, and in the light of the issues and initiatives, the Federation's employers' association also listed the following – an initiative to amend the provisions of 94 and 95. The rules on the application of the VAT Act dates back to 2010. Although the initiative mentioned by the competent authorities as well as the EU representative has been assessed as justified, the amendment to the Regulation has not yet been adopted and they are asking why. They also stress that it is important to note that the majority business community in Bosnia and Herzegovina, chambers, business associations and other organisations have writtenly supported a proposal to amend the disputed norm. Also in 2010, the proposal for an amendment to the Regulation was supported by the then Minister of Finance of Bosnia and Herzegovina and then by the Director of the Direct Taxation Administration, according to the raised issue. In 2012, they also stated that at a meeting which, which had been held with representatives of the Direct Taxation Authority, it was confirmed that the said Regulation would be amended and further announced that even twinning... supported the amendment of the Regulation in question. And then finally, they state that Urpava for indirect taxation is 01.10.2015 in the organization of FIKA(?) – BiH foreign investor councils in Sarajevo hold presentation concerning the proposal to amend the Regulation, and in some ways they expected these amendments to the Regulation to take place. [[Employee is warned on time]] Of course, in this initiative, as you have stated, there are reasons and analysis, and I think that you, Mr. Minister, should answer me in writing the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14582	Thank you. The next is Damir Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14583	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. My question was addressed to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Zvizdić. Mr. Zvizdić – Is it true that you, like all other ministers, do not have a permit to access information marked with secret and very secret, except for the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Security? And for which reason, as chairman of the Council of Ministers, if that is correct and in accordance with Article 35. The BiH secret data protection law, you did not initiate procedure 8 of obtaining access permits marked with secret and very secret for you and the other ministers in the Council of Ministers, except for the Minister of Security and the Minister of Defence? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14584	Thank you. Chairman Zvizdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14585	Thank you. So far, in the materials discussed at the Council of Ministers, we have not had the need for permission to access data in secret and very secret, until now no material has worn such a sign, nor in secret nor in very secret, the materials which were mainly related to a more specific procedure bear the name confidential, and in accordance with the Code on the Protection of Secret Information, chaired by the Council of Ministers and members of the Council of Ministers have access to that rank or to that kind of classification of the materials themselves. However, regardless of the possibility, and in some ways it would be best if it never came to material that treats some great secrecy, certain procedures have been initiated and I think most members of the Council of Ministers will have access to and materials secretly or very secretly, but so far we have not had any material that has made that kind of decision.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14586	Thank you. A comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14587	I can, it's obvious that you don't follow the material that's coming to you to the Council of Ministers, because for a long time, none of the regulations that regulate certain things in the OSA have been adopted since you can't adopt it. You simply need to make a decision about him, the Council of Ministers, to vote on the OSA Regulation, but you simply have no insight into that document because it is very secretive. So maybe you'd better follow the documents that come to you at the Council of Ministers, then you'd know you should have both access and secret and very secret.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14588	Thank you. Ambassador Salko Sokolović. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Okay, I understand, but this is the procedure, but you'll have to make a public statement to the press there if you think so. Here you go. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14590	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome your colleagues, colleagues and fellow Members, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, his associates, all present in the O.R. My question is, I will refer the question to the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, or Mr. Sarovic, the minister. So, the introduction of a blue elevator is an initiative that has been driven on several occasions, including the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations initiative, but this type of support for domestic agricultural producers has not yet been fully achieved. During 2015, the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations again initiated activities to initiate the procedure for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Accises in order to release diesel fuel from additional burdens as one of the most important repromations in agricultural production. The exemption from excise duty and toll for diesel fuel used in primary agricultural production significantly reduces production costs and facilitates the work of farmers. I note that the introduction of this measure falls within the scope of the indirect incentive aid measures allowed by the World Trade Organisation. This also increases competitiveness, i.e. reducing or introducing blue diesel increases the competitive capacity of domestic agricultural producers. The question is to Mr. Minister – When will the Ministry in co-operation with the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Authority, as the Administration gives its opinion, submit to the parliamentary procedure the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Excises in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and all in order to release diesel fuel additional burdens? And here a small mistake is being subdued while I define this letter, means when will the Council of Ministers, through the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, refer this law to a parliamentary procedure that treats blue diesel? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14591	Thank you. Minister Šarović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14592	Mr. Chairman, members of the College, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen. Well, what the honourable MP said was true. Introducing blue diesel measures to support farmers, increasing competitiveness and reducing costs has been the ministry's initiative since 2013. For such an initiative, support has been given by various associations within Bosnia and Herzegovina and the entity's agriculture ministry, meaning the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management of the Republic of Serbia and the Federation of BiH Ministry of Agriculture. An equipped initiative by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations led through the procedure, as you said, in 2015 the Council of Ministers addressed in May 2016, equipped, with the necessary positive opinions of the Office for Law, with a positive opinion of the Management Board for indirect taxation, with a positive opinion from the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury. But I must say, and that is the practical answer to your question, the International Monetary Fund had a reserve when it comes to this measure. This question is not treated in the letter of intent, not explicitly negative, but the reserve, given their view that this measure can lead to theft, if I may say so, in this process, their concern that the introduction of this measure would have a direct impact on the collection of funds to repay credit. You know there's also this issue that concerns the arrangement with the IMF and the Letter of 10 intentions. In that sense, the position in the Council of Ministers, we have discussed this on several occasions, such as that, means that we have a positive relationship against this measure, but the proposal is to send it to further proceedings, or to you here in this House to wait for letters of intent to be sent to the IMF headquarters so that this issue does not in any way burden the issue of obtaining credit for Bosnia and Herzegovina. The foreign trade and economic relations ministry will insist at the next meeting of the Council of Ministers on taking a stand and refer the law to further procedures.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14593	Thank you. A comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14594	Well, here we go. I thank the minister, but here, with this question I wanted the public in Bosnia and Herzegovina to know in some way that this Excise Act, which we are not going to talk about today, is directly related to this issue. And that concern of people in the International Monetary Fund, uh, who don't live in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I don't think they should be... We need to strengthen our agricultural production and our agricultural producers should be competitive on the world market. And maybe that's the problem, not just the IMF, but the entire international community, knowing how well farmers in Bosnia and Herzegovina can produce. I think that, regardless of this commitment that we have or which we should have, or here, which, after all, MPs through their position in the Finance and Budget Committee have not taken over, they have not supported, this, we need to open this second story, we need to enter into the realization of the reduction of excise duty or the introduction of a blue diesel in order to help Bosnia and Herzegovina's agriculture in such a way, i.e. new jobs or kept existing. [[Employee is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14595	Thank you. Safer Demirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14596	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome everyone present in the O.R. My question concerns the BiH security minister, and it reads. At one of the previous meetings of the Council of Ministers of BiH, I am interested in what stage would be the establishment of this body, which would be its tasks and the need for its establishment? At the 4th emergency session, this House clearly condemned all forms of terrorism and gave one commitment to us and our country in the fight against terrorism. In the last session and the Impact Group in the fight against terrorism has activated this task force, however, what we can see from the means of information is that we have certain passes... in which way this fight against terrorism should be launched, or who should be the bearer of these activities and at what level to carry it all out. I am, I would like to hear the minister's opinion given that he is the first and most responsible for security in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but here because the minister is not 11 present, and in order not to ask this question again later, I would ask him to provide me with an answer in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14597	Thank you. I believe you'll soon get an answer in writing. Mensura Beganović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14598	I thank the chairman. I welcome all present. My question was prepared to be asked by the Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, Mr. Šarović. It's about the next one. So, I'm interested, and probably other present and citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina in general, how much has the loss suffered from the energy sanctions of the Ministerial Council of the Energy Community introduced towards Bosnia and Herzegovina since last October, so how many losses have these losses to date, and I'm afraid it might be even bigger, because now things are the reason for the introduction of sanctions hardly being removed? In fact, the Energy Community Ministerial Council imposed sanctions on Bosnia and Herzegovina last October because no gas sector requirements and amendments to the Law on regulators, transmission and electricity markets in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which should be made, is whether, the adjustment and the gas-related dip. What worries me more at this point, not as it was, but as it will be, the Energy Community is... a market of 150 million people and that market is estimated to invest more than 20 billion euros over the next 15 years. So, Bosnia and Herzegovina, if it does not change its relationship with this, will remain without the possibility of participating in the division of the cookie that could invest in energy sector investments in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The reasons for this are actually something that is often mentioned in the reports that we have the opportunity to hear in this high house. A report on the work of the Council of Ministers for the past year, for 2015, was said in one place that, part of the report relating to the work of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, that the resolution of open issues, i.e. obligations signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina, was taken over by the signing of international contracts, primarily by the Treaty with the Energy Community, which are open issues of strategic character and are resolved at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina by delay. And I would say that the term -- a lack of political will, which is very often seen as an insurmountable obstacle to bringing strategic documents to the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina and this time before us. So I would ask that the Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, in a way, and through this kind of information – what are the losses of Bosnia and Herzegovina in a period which so far, not getting into what will be further, may awaken conscience among those who are not ready to show more political will to adopt strategic documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14599	Thank you. Minister Šarović. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14600	Thank you. I will take the opportunity to read only two of the most important measures imposed against Bosnia and Herzegovina at the summit in Tirana on 16 October 2015. In addition to denying voting for procedural acts adopted in Chapter 6. Chapter V of the Treaty, the Basic Treaty of the Energy Community Secretariat is required to suspend the application of compensation rules to representatives of Bosnia and Herzegovina for all meetings organised by the Energy Community. And point 3, the action of the measures referred to in Article 92 of this Article shall be limited to one year or one year, and Article 3 of the EU shall be required to, in accordance with Article 6. The agreement during the duration of the dispute analyses appropriate measures on suspension of financial assistance to gas projects in Bosnia and Herzegovina. If you ask me what are the direct damages from the measures themselves when it comes to institutions, they are minimal in terms of these travel costs to the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, but I assume your question concerns the consequences of failure to comply with the obligations of the Energy Community Treaty, and there are indeed significant damages. In the first place, there are no capital projects in the gas sector in Bosnia and Herzegovina during the duration of these measures, and I can say in particular that the project is Bosnia and Herzegovina – Serbia – Montenegro, which refers to the project of 400 kilovolent, interconnection of Visegrad – Bajina Basta – Pliva, when it comes to Bosnia and Herzegovina, has been stopped or I would say on hold until Bosnia and Herzegovina fulfils its obligations under the "third package" of the EU directive and thus we are denied 10m euros in realisation of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the part relating to this project. A 235m-euro regional programme for funding energy efficiency projects was also approved at the Paris Summit. In the current situation, Bosnia and Herzegovina will not be able to finance projects from the Fund for the said programme unless it urgently adopts legislation for the area in line with European directives, meaning of these 235m euros. And, of course, between 2014 and 2016, Bosnia and Herzegovina was denied access to IPA funds at an annual level of around 20m euros, amounting to about 60m euros for the three years. That, I'd say, is what, indirect damage the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations has to do with. Perhaps it is not an opportunity for the time to tell you that it is actively working to overcome, that is... the conditions of Bosnia and Herzegovina that the Energy Community is asking us to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14601	Thank you. Commentary, MEP Beganović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14602	I thank Mr. Minister, and I expected one like this, to say, an oral response, and I would like you to provide the answer in writing, because that's something that's relevant that can be further operated on. I would really like to say to this ministry that I do not object to the work of the ministry, but I do resent so much that such data are not more often the subject of pressure, or the way it puts pressure on decision-makers, because the lack of political will from the top of political parties through legislative bodies such as this Parliament and parliaments at lower levels of government are those who need to think about how much it loses Bosnia and Herzegovina in full because of the reasons that 13 are often defined as a lack of coordination or lack of political will. I truly cannot see it as a responsible citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina as a relevant reason. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14603	Thank you. Ambassador Hanka Vajzović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14604	Thank you, Your Honor. I warmly welcome you all. I have referred the question to the Council of Ministers, in fact the first man, the chairman, Mr Zvizdić, and the question is – What has the Council of Ministers, I mean, of course, the current call in this period, done about reforming the public administration and reviewing the justification of the existence of certain state institutions, are under different names, agencies, directorates, institutes, offices, commissions and so on, so on the beginning of this mandate, so almost one and a half years ago announced as a particularly important activity in order to rationalise and human resources, reductions, which means reducing the administration but also other savings of public spending, such as renting space, follow-up services, management that is always according to the national key, so their cabinets, vehicles and drivers, administrative and control boards? I referred the question to the chairman of the Council of Ministers because, in light of the Reform Agenda a year and a half ago, so even before the Council of Ministers announced a serious reform of the public administration, and thus a review of the eligibility of so many institutions. However, even more resolutely, Mr Ivanić was, for example, and this is an additional explanation, at the time of the chairmanship of the BiH presidency who said literally at the time -- we in Bosnia and Herzegovina have state institutions that have been around for years that have done nothing so far. One of these is, for example, the case, so the Commission for concessions of BiH states, and then mentioned, we could read all of this in the media, the BiH Insurance Agency, and the Preschool, Primary and Secondary Education Agency, which has offices in both Mostar and Banja Luka, and Sarajevo, etc. So it's kind of an impression. Read the list of these institutions is an impression that someone has formed them in such a hurry, and we still choose the Management Board, 10 members of the Commission, that is, this higher education, and no one wonders whether we need such an agency, the Higher Education and Quality Insurance Agency at all. [[Embassy is warned on time]] Some, the names of some commissions already raises doubts What do we need them for? [[Embassy is warned on time]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14605	Thank you. Chairman Zvizdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14606	I would like to thank the honourable representative for the matter. Indeed that came to me this morning at 9:25 p.m. exactly, so I'm going to ask the distinguished professor to definitely ask this question(?) I also deliver in writing. Now I'm going to look very briefly at, not just a question, but at a number of sub-questions that are contained within the question itself. So, the Public Administration Reform Strategy was adopted in 2006, it is implemented in line with action plans. The first revision and the 14th Strategy was in 2010, the second one was last year, action plans were adopted and in line with reforms, which are defined within the action plans. So far, the rate of realization is greater than 65%, I speak cumulatively at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, although the percentages are different when we talk about the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina and when we talk about the level of two entities and Brcko District, but they are carried out continuously within the dynamics outlined. On the other hand, the Council of Ministers also adopted, within its Action Plan and relations to public administration reform and restrictions on all other elements that we can treat under one common notion of over-exploitation or waste, documents that, for example, limit the volume of wages, which means that there is no increase in wages except for individual categories. And here, let's say, I can give an example that there is a good atmosphere in the Council of Ministers, so not yet an agreement, but a good atmosphere to reach an agreement to, say, increase the salaries of unformed police officers at the level of agencies at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina in order to, say, correct the injustice that the salaries of police officers at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina are hundreds less than the salaries of police officers in the same rank and practically the same powers at the level of entities or cantons. We will try to correct this injustice and I expect that we will have an understanding and agreement within the Council of Ministers. On the other hand, employment is very controlled, there is no new employment without the approval of the Council of Ministers, which was not the case before, and it will be allowed exclusively in those institutions that are important for us to continue the European path and those institutions that are important for maintaining stability. So, we allowed the employment of new cadets, for example, in the State Border Service or other police agencies, other requirements that are not sufficiently reasoned, not related to the European path and economic development of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the preservation of peace and stability will not be granted to any agency or any directorate. And of course, we are also working on our general plan that you have previously met, which is that by the end of this term we will certainly significantly reduce the amount which at this point, I end in a second, which at this point is paid for renting space for the accommodation of state institutions. [[the chairman warns on time]] So by the end of this term, surely the largest number of state institutions will be located in areas belonging to Bosnia and Herzegovina and we will significantly reduce the amount of these rents, which, for example, last year were at almost 9 million KM annually. So we work in all of these segments, but since it's a complex question, here's let me deliver my answer to you in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14607	Thank you. Commentary, MP Vajzović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14608	Thank you, Chairman. In fact, the focus on this issue was on agencies, i.e. the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of course, in order for us all to agree – who we need to pay and pay if he does his job, this is about an excessive, excessive number of agencies that have even here and are based in three places, by 30 employees or simply, simply asking who needs the Information Centre, I don't even know what it means for information, knowledge, recognition of documents in the area of higher education, institutions that are appointed that you simply don't believe, the Institute for Missing Persons, can we at least rename d not the Institute for them, this, etc., there are a lot of those 15 that are consumers, big consumers. It doesn't seem to me that the solution is to reduce some of their resources and let them get down to it, and it should certainly be more useful to use these resources for those who work, which we need. Well, there it was, and thank you to the Honorable Council of Ministers Chairman, I'd like to have a written answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14609	Thank you. This concludes the oral parliamentary questions. I thank the representatives of the Council of Ministers for their presence and for their answers. We are now moving on to the agenda of the session. So I want to inform you that the following points are added in relation to the earlier draft agenda: point 3. The request of MP Mirsad Mešić to consider the draft law amending the Law on the Public Television System of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01-02-1-2063/16, from 28.07.2016. Point 10. The request of the Interim Joint Commission of the two Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the extension of the deadline for preparing and referring to parliamentary procedure Proposal for a Law on Parliamentary Oversight, issue: 01,02-50-14-1197-3/16, since 20.07.2016. Point 15. Report on the designation of candidates for the appointment of directors and two deputy directors of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency, Commission material for the selection and monitoring of the work of the Anti-Corruption Prevention Agency, No. 01.2-34-1-932/16, of 13.07.2016. At the request of the Finance Commission and the budget from the agenda, the following points 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Excises in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-1853/16 of 07.07.2016 (first reading), Short Procedure. Point 4. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on an indirect taxation system in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-1854/16 of 07.07.2016 (first reading), Short Procedure. Point 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Payments Act to a single account and distribution of income – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Act No: 01,02-02-1-185/16 of 07.07.2016 (first reading), shortened procedure. At the request of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, point 16. Consideration of the parliamentary initiative of Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Vrazalice, submitted on 12.07.2016, which reads: “The Council of Ministers of BiH is obliged to submit a report on young people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, no later than 60 days from the date of adoption of this initiative at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, in the parliamentary procedure," Act No 01-50-1906/16. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. 16 Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14610	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. In line with the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, I propose that a new agenda item, called the Proposal for a House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, be placed in the agenda for the appointment of an illegal referendum in the BH entity Republika Srpska, which threatens the peace and peace process in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In accordance with the rules of the Rules of Procedure, I am delivering a proposal for conclusions in writing, so I am not going to read them, except to say that all conclusions concern the strict obligation to respect the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina, all annexes of the Dayton Peace Agreement and the Constitution of BiH. And of course, at the end of these conclusions, all authorities are urged to respect the whole of the Dayton Peace Agreement legally and politically and in any other way. I am already in last session, and I repeat this, when it comes to the referendum that it is a flagrant violation of the Dayton Peace Agreement, its essential annexes and essential members of the BiH Constitution. Furthermore, I would like to make it clear here in Parliament today that if such an illegal referendum were allowed, it would be a complete devising of the electoral process and the scheduled local elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Imagine if the referendum were really held on September 25th, it would be a campaign, not only in one entity, but in all of Bosnia and Herzegovina, then on September 26th and 27th, they would wait, whether, the results, then 28, 29th and 30th would be comments and reactions throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina to that. So for the local elections, only October 1st would remain. On that day, however, candidates would not be able to present their programme again because it is an election silence on October 1st, and October 2nd is the election. So is there anyone here in this room or anywhere in this country that thinks it would be a regular local election. I think our obligation and our obligation here is in the highest legislative authority to discuss it. I am ubijediti that it is better to have dialogue here in Parliament than outside of the BiH Parliament, as I am convinced that everyone in this country should respect the constitutionality and legality of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is extremely important that Bosnia and Herzegovina's legal authorities do not take any wrong steps, and those who would eventually bring this illegal story to September 25th would have to bear responsibility for the unilateral abandonment of the Dayton Peace Agreement, because, I remind you here, Dodik is right, this issue is not randomly chosen and not harmless at all. With such a referendum, Annex X, Article VI of the Constitution and the BiH Constitutional Court would not make any sense, since then the Constitutional Court decisions would not be final and binding, and Article I of the Continuity of Bosnia and Herzegovina would be deleted beyond the provisions of the Dayton Peace Agreement. So here I am not going any further, inviting my colleagues to put this item on the agenda and seriously open a dialogue to see where this country is going. We owe it to the citizens...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14611	Okay, time's up. Thank you. We don't have any more press releases on the agenda and I'm going to put this proposal...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14612	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14613	Mirsad Mešić, breach of the Rules of Procedure. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14614	Mr. Chairman. We're going into phase when we can hurt point 71. The Rules of Procedure, because MPs do not have the written material of Mr Bećirović, so if you can ensure that this material is shared before the plea, or if I do not seek a 15-minute break on behalf of the Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14615	Well, here, I suggest that the Service, first of all, could have shared that material in time, but here, I suggest that the Service, if it has material, share it with the MPs before the vote. Denis Bećirović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14616	So, in the end, my colleague Mešić was clear, looking for a 15-minute break on behalf of the club to split the material.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14617	My colleague Mešić didn't say he was looking for a break, but if we can't share the material, then he's asking for a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14618	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14619	We're looking for an official break on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14620	Who's the club chief at your place, please? I'm asking the club chief to say it.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14621	Let's not make a mess about all this. I'm looking for a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14622	Time out for 15 minutes. Here you go, Mr. Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14624	I just want to point out that the Rules of Procedure clearly stipulates that a break can be sought at any point in the agenda. We're still not on any agenda, we're just establishing the agenda, so no conditions, no business conditions that this club is looking for a break. Look at the Rules of Procedure. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14625	This is the establishment of the agenda and it is envisaged that when proposing new points, the written material must be submitted. So I'm asking the Service to share written material with the MPs and that's why, why we're waiting now. If so, did the Service share the material? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I know, you've put us in an awkward situation, here's 15 minutes to deal with this situation. We're giving a 15-minute break to address this situation.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14630	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So I've got a few answers, and here I'm just gonna ask for a few of these things to supplement. The first question has been asked by the Ministry of Civil Affairs, which refers to the conclusion of the Social Security Agreement with Canada, so it is indicated who is 21 why it is responsible, but nowhere in particular is it responsible for what is now being done and when these people can expect this issue to be completed. So I'd ask the Ministry to, uh, supplement. The second question is – how much funding is planned for employment, especially youth employment in the new IMF loan. So in response, which was also delivered by the Ministry of Civil Affairs, it clearly states that the Ministry of Civil Affairs is not aware whether Bosnia and Herzegovina planned funds in negotiations with the IMF. So I asked the Council of Ministers the question. And if the Ministry of Civil Affairs isn't familiar, I'm asking to be answered by someone who's familiar, but someone has to have an answer and someone has to know what's in that letter of intent and what's in the essence of this new responsibility, so what's in it? If the funds will not be spent on what is the real problem, which is work, it is employment, it is, in some way, solving problems that we have in general in Bosnia and Herzegovina, then it is completely wrong and completely unnecessary to do some new duties and to borrow the country. The third issue, the third issue, is the trend in the number of employees and unemployed in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2016. I thank the agencies and employment agencies and entities and the Brcko District and the state district, so they did it correctly, but I would ask for a supplement because I asked for parallel data from 2015. So, in order for us to know what the trend is, and in what direction we're going to compare it with something, I'd ask these competent institutions, the competent agencies, and lead us to deliver information compared to 2015, so what we have for 2016 is just to compare it to 2015 and see what our trends are. And the fourth thing is the trend of investment in Bosnia and Herzegovina, my question was – which countries and in which areas are the most invested in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2016 compared to, say, 2015. The first thing that stings so hard is that foreign investments in Bosnia and Herzegovina are 470 million marks and 54.8% lower than last year, so that's actually below five years. And another thing that is also interesting in this response, which I think is not true, says - the state does not possess information about countries where investors and investments are from, or areas of investment. So it's impossible that we don't have information about where the capital is coming from, what it's doing, where the area is being invested, even if I know more that it's not true because in some previous issues I've received concrete answers from which country and in which areas the most funds have been invested. And now you see, 54%, 54.8% less foreign investment, we say we have a reform agenda, we have a European path to start the country, and we actually reject those foreign investors from Bosnia and Herzegovina. On the other hand, we have a lot of flat-rate statements from top officials in Bosnia and Herzegovina that we have started things, as we have, what is called, progress, as we have more employees, and on the third hand that we have a much larger number of investments than it was before. So either they're wrong about the official statistical data supplying us or they're wrong about the way they say it. So I would ask that this response be updated and, on the other hand, to be complemented by a concrete opinion of the Council of Ministers, i.e. the competent institutions - which, in their opinion, is crucial and what affects such a huge decline of interest in investment in Bosnia and Herzegovina in this year, i.e. 2015, as compared to 2014. I think these are important things and that based on one such trend, one such information we can further come up with our policies and we can make some positive changes in the country. Thank you very much. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14631	Thank you. Ambassador Nikola Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14632	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome you and everyone present in the guest hall, the media. So I would, I don't have any answers to any questions, and I have questions asked, you know that from work, so I'd like to ask you that the emergency instructions to the federal television that I've asked the question to have already been asked for maybe a month, so here's the final courtesy of answering. And of course, therefore, I insist that it enters the record that the D.A. still hasn't answered my five-six questions in over a year and over here.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14633	Thank you. Ambassador Salko Sokolović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14634	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, I've asked one question on the same subject with five questions to the Council of Ministers. I got an answer to two questions, on three I got some descriptive story, I'd call it that, since there's no relevant data required in these sub-questions that I've asked. So, just as I received a concrete answer on the basis of which the legal act regulated the cost of transporting to and from work, I also expected that I would receive and how much money at the monthly level so far has been realised for this decision, i.e. the change, I mentioned there a code that changes, which is actually used to account for expenses, how much that purchase of these codes cost, i.e. I asked for a concrete answer – whether all employees signed the Declaration that under criminal, moral and material responsibility they guarantee accurate data. It means that we don't come into a situation to live in one address, and it's used by another when it's registered to make more money for compensation. So, here is simply not to be longer, not to burden my colleagues in Parliament, I ask the Council of Ministers to supplement the questions I have provided with relevant information on the precise issues I have provided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14635	Thank you. We don't have any more comments. And before we move to the third item of the agenda, I would like to inform you that the College has reached a decision to shorten the debate for five minutes. Third item of the agenda, 23 Ad. 3. The request of MP Mirsad Mešić to consider the draft law amending the Law on the Public Television System of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01-02-1-2063/16, of 28.07.2016 The legislative and legal sector delivered its opinion on 01.08.2016. establishing that the draft law is in line with Article 105. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the Uniform Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in Bosnia and Herzegovina's Institutions. So, I'll open up an emergency hearing. As you know, if an emergency procedure is adopted then the debate on this matter is immediately continued. Can I help you? Are there any reports? Fehim Škaljić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14637	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, members of the Council of Ministers. The currentity of the situation and the need for services to function justifies an emergency procedure and I will support it and the club.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14638	We don't have any more logs. Let's go, get ready to vote on emergency procedures.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14639	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14640	So we're repeating the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14641	Break five minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14642	Break five minutes. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] All right, so we're doing this vote again. _________(?) 24 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14646	I'm gonna vote right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14647	There's no agreement on voting in the second round, we're going to get an agreement. So no emergency procedures were adopted. We're going to the fourth item of the agenda, Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Basicity of Traffic on Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, No: 01,02-02-13/15, since 25/01/2016 (first reading) The draft law was submitted in procedure 24.12.2015. The legislative and legal sector delivered its opinion on 30.12.2015 which found that the proposal for a law was not fully in line with Article 105. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the Uniform Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in Bosnia and Herzegovina's Institutions. For this reason, the Kolegijum of the doma decided to ask the Proposer to correct the observed shortcomings in the Bill proposal. The Proposer, the Council of Ministers of BiH, delivered on 25.01.2016 the required amendments to the Bill's proposal, and on 17.02.2016, an unofficial version of the consolidated text of the Law in electronic form. The Directorate for European Integration delivered its opinion on 19.07.2016. The competent Commission for Transport and Communications delivered its opinion on 26.07.2016. The Commission has supported the principles of the bill's proposal and is proposing to the House the adoption of the conclusion. The conclusion is: - The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is in charge of the Transport and Communications Commission of the House of Representatives to hold a public debate within 45 days on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic on Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Constitutional Legal Commission delivered its Opinion on the Proposal for a Law on 01.08.2016. The Commission has established compliance with the draft law with the BiH Constitution and the legal system. I'm opening a debate. There are no reported, there are, Damir Bećirović. Here you go. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14649	I'll do it for a while. Now, we've heard fine just now from the secretary that there are no ministers, no deputys are on yearly, so we should discuss something and you know the 74th member of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, unless there's a proposal to take it off the agenda. So this is, at the very least, unserious and that this is a joke that the Council of Ministers of Parliament is doing.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14650	The proposal is by the Council of Ministers, there are representatives of the Council of Ministers here, so we move on. MP Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14651	...to Parliament. If ministers can go on vacation, I don't know what we're doing, which we didn't go on vacation, or if we don't go then they can't go until then either. This is indeed an disrespect for Parliament, but in that part, the College also bears its responsibility. I would like to say a few more things that are without, in addition to this, we have no one to say, what is important to say is that the Ministry of Transport and Communications, by its act of 15.03., requested an opinion on the proposed law from the entity MUPs, and in its letter of 25.03., the Ministry of Transport delivered 22 remarks, suggestions or recommendations to members of the Law. Now, it's unusual to see that none of the recommendations delivered by the Republika Srpska MUP have been respected, so no one has even read it. If all of this were added that, in the meantime, we had a replacement minister, that the question of whether the new minister met, in the end, there is information that the current minister was against the law when he was in his own time in the cantonal procedure, that he was very difficult for him, I can't believe that now, how, what happened in the meantime, so suddenly, this one, defends him. So these are the things we need to get answers to here. Here it is true that it is proposed to organise a public debate, but a public debate does not mean that it will touch everything. I was going to suggest, but I have no one else to withdraw the law from the procedure, complete with the opinions of the entity MUPs, and then release it into the procedure of the Law which will contain and look at those who will implement it. Since we don't have, we're talking to ourselves, we don't have any of it, so the only thing left to do is not to support the law, and then to start over and do it right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14652	Thank you. She's an emissary of Aleksandra Pandurević.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14653	I thank you, Chairman. I think that one of the most important laws has been found before us in this term. Why do I think that? Because it's a law that saves people's lives. Back in the last meeting of the House of Representatives, we sought this Law, unfortunately it was long gone, agreed, changed, withdrawn from parliamentary procedure, etc. I am sorry that there are no real 26 ministers here today, because I would ask, and here is a stenogram and our request, I am interested in solutions in Croatia and Serbia. Why am I saying all this? Because I don't think every single one of us starts a day without reading the black chronicle of how many people were killed on our roads. It's mostly about unconscious driving and probably, in my opinion, are... humble punishments. In particular, our weekends are black, where children of 19, 20 years of age are killed. I will only read you the Auto-Moto Alliance Report – in the past 2015 in car accidents in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the lives of 341 persons were lost, 1,678 people were seriously injured, and this cost our health system as well, while 8,186 people suffered minor physical injuries. Now, when you look at their statistics, how many people have been killed in the last 10 years in car accidents, you'll get to over 3.5 thousand people. The average is twenty-something years. And that's why I think this is a very important law, and some of my personal opinion is that it has to be even more repressive, that these penalties are also small for the violations that are being committed and that people's lives are being lost. This is the law that needs to save people's lives, and that's why he's going to have the support of the SDS MPs' club. Of course, we are not against the public debate on this law and let's see what solutions are in the region, because I will remind Serbia a few years ago, two, it seems to me, for three years, has passed a very repressive law and after that is significantly reduced and the number of car accidents and the number of people killed in these car accidents. Why, I also see by this Law that young people can drive until 12 p.m., after two years of passing a driving test. I think we should limit that to 10 hours. And let's see, to find the best solutions that are really alarming, I think the most alarming situation is the number of victims in this country, and if one human life is saved by a new law we've done a lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14654	Thank you. Ambassador Fehim Škaljić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14655	Thank you, Chairman. It really drives us, as the distinguished representative Pandurević said, to give this issue special attention, the number of dead, the number of damaged, the material damage on Bosnia and Herzegovina's roads is growing. What we've done so far has not shown efficiency in security, there is not enough rationality in the organization of this area and our efficiency is poor. The proposed legal solution of the amendments is not complete and it comes in a series of legal solutions that have changed this area, which will ultimately require a codification to be carried out.. into a consolidated text legally for practical use. But the currentity states that we are not delaying this, but to enter into this legislative regulation process further, and therefore we have insisted on the Commission to open a public debate in order to extend the amendment's review of this text and its change. I would especially like to point out here that the situation in which we have measures to drive under the lights, we have the most radar in the history of Bosnia and Herzegovina, we have the most repairs of deviations on the roads that have been, has not been amnesty since the increased number of deaths, and so it has continued. There is a part of the problem that needs to be solved, so the problem must be seen on the other hand. The question is how the human factor in the security segment contributes to this and whether it is effective. Secondly, as part of this Act, we also have a duty to consider the question, let me say, the rationality of the use of means of transport from the aspect of consumption and ecology and, therefore, it is necessary to consider 27 of the use of lights in the region, among other things. An aproximative bill for Sarajevo says that over the day, about 8 thousand MWh of energy is spent annually in Sarajevo. That's when they translate, throw some tank fuel down the road every day. Is that what we need, is it proportionate to what contributes to increasing security, especially when we are now advocating and reducing the speed in cities? It is certainly important to look at this from the point of view of ecology, because the separation of the Ecology Society in the long term represents a great resource and a great need, and to contribute to anything in this area is an immativative. On the other hand, in the field of traffic security and individual participation, we do not have the necessary efficiency. Now, I, for example, when I register a car at a technical inspection, which is equipped, which has a camera registration, I get a note that limits me to not go anywhere outside my canton or place of residence, I can't go abroad because my traffic permit has to go to some administrative unit of the MUP. It's absolutely unnecessary, the modern world has a different approach, all of it has to be solved in one place, all of it has to be solved in a session of one hour to show greater efficiency. This is only part of the argument why today's first reading should accept this, and I call on all Members of Parliament and others interested in joining this which will be led by the Transport and Communications Commission, which is related to a public debate in order to get the quality of the text that will meet the needs of Bosnia and Herzegovina and its citizens at this stage until the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14656	Thank you. Ambassador Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14657	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. The Transport and Liaison Commission is precisely because of the different reflections on certain legal solutions here and suggests that within 30 days, or suggested that the House adopt a conclusion which will oblige the Commission to conduct a public debate in some 45 days, which will try to find different solutions that are acceptable to all. This is, the boredom was actually just five amendments to the Traffic Act, this one has as many as 76 members, which in itself points to the necessity of making a new, completely new law, and in this direction I assume that things will be moving in the next period, but until that happens, I think it's very important to adopt this Law. Of course, some solutions are a matter of public debate and later action here in Parliament, but in any case it is urgent to correct some illogicalities in legal solutions, but also to fulfil the principles on which this Law is based. Since we are talking about principles today, the Proposer has proposed three principles on which he has based amendments to the Law. One principle is the legal arrangement of mutual relations and the behaviour of traffic participants. The second principle is to improve the level of traffic security in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The third is the principle of effective punishment for traffic offenders. My assessment, around the whole Commission, was that this law was based on these three principles, that it meets the requirements and that in the first reading it was necessary to support it in order to come to a public debate and the possibility that what was not properly solved there or not solved at all, we should resolve through amendments in the second phase. Thank you very much. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14658	Thank you. Ambassador Zaim Backović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14659	I thank the chairman. Sometimes a man catches himself in dilemmas whether or not he discusses something that is necessary, which imposes life. We are very often ready to enter polemics for something vital, especially for young people, in this first stage of education, or culture of traffic participation. The four aspects are which law must be treated, that is, the aspect of security – what we are, the aspect of preventive action – what it is. What Mrs Pandurević and Mr Škaljić were already talking about, in the second part, is efficiency. And the fourth thing is total regulation, a unique regulation in a space called Bosnia and Herzegovina. And now we're going into these traps and we're discussing something that's life. The economic efficiency, i.e. the efficiency of the overall use of the lights, to my esteemed Mr. Škaljić, means 4 years ago with full analysis I went to the Cantonal Assembly and presented on an annual level what it means to use the lights in a period of full Danish light. And we found that the total emissions of harmful gases are so high that in Sarajevo, a city that is transitory, it would fall so much that in fact Sarajevo would be one of the cleanest cities. At that moment, 144,000 personal, personal, private vehicles were registered, plus official, plus buses, plus transit traffic, plus guests, and so on. People forget that fuel consumption with lit lights is bigger than use, irrational use of air conditioning, the same thing, but it's at the level of all Bosnia and Herzegovina. Why did it come to Europe... in Croatia not to use, in full light of day do not use more light? That's exactly why. When it comes to regulation but from the point of view of security, let's just ask ourselves how much it is, and it takes someone finally to unite young people with permanent consequences because of traffic, I don't want to say accidents anymore, but rough accidents, are they not accidents? How many people remain with permanent disabilities because the use of intoxicating drugs and alcohol is widespread? And we don't want to open up the pages that treat it, now I feel ugly when I say this, they're going to say what he's looking at, open up... a page and read about Bosnia and Herzegovina and find that they're putting us into nations that use alcohol the most in Europe per capita, most of all, so we're among those nations. Then who runs the vehicles? Drivers, it's true, drivers, and it's necessary to enter, and I'm in no part, let the public debate go, but to a restrictive law. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Repressive or restrictive, however you like, he must narrow down and extend powers, narrow down those rights to those who abuse and extend powers to those who exercise him. So I'm about to go into a complete solution that will give security, first of all they are involved in traffic, and they are all participants, from pedestrians to city traffic. [[Employee is warned on time]] Everything is a traffic participant, and a cyclist. Thank you. [[Employee is warned on time]] 29
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14661	Thank you, Mr. Backović. Deputy Chairman, Borjana Krišto.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14662	I thank the chairman. I welcome all distinguished colleagues and colleagues, of course, and all guests, members of the Council of Ministers, of course, and the media who are monitoring the work of today's session. I listened carefully, under the point of the Amendment Law on amendments and additions to the Road Safety Act, as my colleagues said. And of course, I agree, it is certain that it is the urgency for all of us to pass a law that would be established on the basis of some of the principles that are actually listed here in these reasons, of principle, I would say, the legal establishment, that is, the regulation, the normation of this area, to, and all with the aim of improving, means, security and effective punishment. However, I'm afraid that's not really because, here I have also seen and read all these comments and suggestions that we received from the competent interior ministries of certain counties, entity, etc., and here we know already since we have the bill we looked at it like that and we saw that there was, to say, a lot of polemics about it and that indeed the intensity that we want is, once again, certainly this Law is not and must not have any political connotations. With this Law, we need to think about it in a way that we can bring it into practice and really be in a function of traffic security of all those, so that both moving and not, I think they have the same interest. And to do so, we must also have a serious approach when we adopt this Law. I'm sure it would be a good idea to spend some time, and that's one way to improve this public debate. Whether or not she's going to contribute to the quality of the law, I'm not sure, because we also know through these remarks that have been delivered, somewhere, so they haven't, I'd say, in one appropriate way at least considered, and I can finally see that they haven't been accepted. There are many objections to this Law which, in my humble experience, are, let me say, questionable. First of all, there are several articles, I'll indicate, this, which, here's a distinguished colleague Pandurević also mentioned this ban on driving a motor vehicle for people who get, which means they don't have, they don't own a driver's license for more than 2 years, and here's the time of the ban, it's been written from 24 to 5 hours. Maybe we should ask ourselves if it's a real measure, see what experiences exist in the environment, when we know there are other experiences, when there may be a principle in other countries that say it can be driven but with a person who has a certain experience. Perhaps the pain effects would also be achieved with a fine and not with a ban, given our institutions which we, even today, know the situation that is happening to us, I don't know, in terms of and penalties, and criminal points, etc., so the police take away, I don't know, driver's license, so it's immediately called, intervened, etc. I think that in one way the law means no matter what it is, it's being destroyed by not only traffickers, given specifically this Law, but maybe every single one when it's in a particular situation or indirectly through someone. As for also certain provisions, and so I would say that this should all, in some ways, be examined and see the real solutions that are in neighbouring countries and see what it is, although we may find it difficult in the context of the system and us as one country some experience of transport culture, and others, we may find it difficult to compare, but it would be good to consider in some way. For example, I do. the disputed and the provision that speaks of a stranger who, let's say, Article 213. – with a vehicle registered abroad on roads on Bosnia and Herzegovina territory cannot be managed by persons who have permanent residence in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I don't see why it's a problem for someone to manage with the authority, permission of a vehicle owner, 30 I know what the intensity was, but this provision can then be defined in a different way and say... I mean, why don't you drive a car that's from his family and someone doesn't have a residence in Bosnia and Herzegovina, has a vehicle registered, I don't know, irrelevantly, in one of the neighbouring countries. So many other provisions. I want to say that I am also in line with all those who have spoken of that really being one of these important laws and that we need to bring it in a cautious way to really respond to what is really our goal here, which is traffic safety and efficiency, means protection in terms of punishment and punishment for those perpetrators of the offences that occur in road traffic. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14663	Thank you. Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14664	Just for a little while, she gave me, this isn't Mrs. Krišto giving you anything, it's just a short one. It would be very interesting for Mrs. Krišto to give us how many people who have a management ban have removed new driver's licenses in shape have lost the old one. That would be very interesting. Here, given the circumstances, remember what I said, those who work in this building, at this point I know a couple who have a ban on a few months of management and they handed over the one they took out again and the trains with the one that shouldn't actually be valid, because they took out the duplicate, and then they turned in the duplicate. It would be very interesting for us to think that how many people there are, but in the meantime, by the time they came to realize, they took out a new one, you know. It's very, very interesting, and it doesn't treat the law. It's a criminal act that can be subjected to falsification of official documents, IDs. But no one's paying attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14665	Thank you. Momčilo Novaković, correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14666	I also took advantage of this form of correction of the wrong allegation just to say to our vice-president and to all of us that most of these issues were on the agenda of the debate under this Law on the Commission and that all these ambiguities and dilemmas were practically left for public debate, so that we could come to public debates to those solutions that would allow exactly what we're talking about, and that the law would be implemented... these principles. Unfortunately, we don't have a minister here today to explain it, even if the answers are, which is why some of the solutions that concern the principles of the law are the way they are, but that's why these ministers of ours are pokemons, we're going to die while we're chasing them.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14667	Thank you. Deputy Chairman Borjana Krišto, correction of the wrong allegations. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14668	In fact, I will say as well as my colleagues, I did not realize that they were correcting my allegations guilty, but actually I went out to confirm what they said, because I think these proposals for solutions that my colleague Zaim Backović spoke about, and even the current ones that are in this Law, are just going to, in my legal experience, give room for something, to say, malversions, and not for the fact that we have a law that is ultimately enforceable in terms and responsibilities of traffic participants and when it comes to punishment. So let's just say one more aspect, I personally think that we are not matured as institutions that we can transfer the extension of license plates to authorised vehicle registration institutions, regardless of where they stand and they meet certain conditions and they exist under the law, but personally I think that's still the thing that needs to remain in the jurisdiction of the MIPs, or the interior ministries, as well as many others. So once again, I would just point out that I welcome what my colleagues have said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14669	Thank you. MP Nermina Kapetanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14670	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Not wanting to repeat the discussions of my predecessors, very much respecting what Mr. Novaković said, I believe that taking into account the fact that the law is in the first reading and that it is based on three principles, which the distinguished colleague spoke of, as far as I am concerned, I think that we should support the Law in the first reading. Of course it is necessary to conduct a public debate involving experts from the transport profession. And I will, in the same way as my colleague Pandurević referred in one part of her discussion, very briefly refer to the fact and the need to strengthen traffic safety, traffic safety. This time I will also talk about children, child safety, and I think it is very important to work in prevention with children and in preschool age and school age to create a traffic culture that in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I dare say, does not exist. As a doctor, I think that in Bosnia and Herzegovina there was good, as a person who is an anesthesiologist, and I've had countless many interventions as an anesthesiologist, it's terrible that when they bring you a patient you don't know his blood type, we waste no time saving a human life waiting for results that are a blood group. What would happen in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which would cost us, not much, if in our driver's licenses, at least mine didn't say blood type, me as a person, so all traffickers. I know that, it seems to me in the Un-San canton that it is planned that in their ID cards, which will be in electronic form, it will be... a blood group will be entered, but I think it's very important, first of all, to watch a driver's license when terrible car accidents occur, few people remember to look for a personal card, and especially the actors and decision-makers do not know that in electronic form it can be entered into personal documents of the type of ID card. But I'm saying, I think driving licenses would have to have that kind of data present. That's one. And two, taking care of the fact that our first neighbour from the EU, Croatia, is a state of the highest number of organ donors in terms of transpathology, it would be good for those in Bosnia and Herzegovina who want to donate their organs in case there is no possibility of a continuation of their lives, and that there is the possibility that by giving their organs to someone else's life, 32 to make those statements, to find a way in the form of a personal card that such a statement can be attached, that simply medical teams on the spot can know who is a voluntary donor, that it doesn't always have to be with a person, that it is somehow embedded in the concept of a new ID card. Of course, public debates should include aspects for traffic safety. Whether this biometric chip, which is said to have a new driver's license, is going to come to life or not, I'm not very optimistic about it, but I think at least when it comes to blood groups, it would be something that would save many, many people's lives. There are particularly dangerous shares already marked in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I will only talk about a few, say the road to Foca or, say, on the way out of Zenica towards Doboj, these are places where terrible, terrible car accidents occur, regardless of the radar, regardless of the restrictions, and I think that there is not enough and traffic culture in Bosnia and Herzegovina is one of the reasons for that. What particularly horrifies me as a person who often times on the route of Zenica – Sarajevo is the fact that on the highway happens quite naturally that they threaten you, so on the right side of the places that are intended for rest and no one, in fact, reacts almost for it. What scares me and the fact that very many small children are victims, victims of car accidents, and I think that in this Law, so when a public debate is held, that public debate with traffic experts should include persons from the field of health, but also from the education system. I think that this integrated, first part of the draft is good, that it should be supported, it is certain that there may be shortcomings, but the public debate that will be carried out will show what modern law we need to make, and I think it is good to consult countries from the region that have even better and better quality laws than our own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14671	Thank you. Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14672	I thank the chairman. I just briefly wanted to look back on what the distinguished colleague Krišto said about manipulations. I think that and this law, like she said, we need to find a way to solve it. Here, I'll read, I'll give you one piece of information that 8 drivers in Republika Srpska owe 137.650 marks for fines. Recorder is a driver from Doboj with 27,243 marks, Sokolac 25,136 marks, so one driver, Novo Gorazde 17.869 and Banja Luka is the last 12,411 marks. What's going on? The vehicle is registered to another person, an unemployed driver, cannot be charged for re-registration, and he acts like this. We need to find a solution to these amendments and additions to the law. Is it a solution for such drivers to go to jail, which again costs the state, or a solution to send them nicely, I don't know, to be socially useful, to have a clean city, to have a working obligation for a month to clean the city and so, or two, three, no matter, to pay. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14673	Thank you. Mr. Predrag Kožul, discussion. Here you go. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14674	My colleagues and colleagues, first of all, I would like to join you in welcoming everyone present at today's session. I'm gonna try not to say what's already been said here, so maybe two or three things I'm gonna warn about that haven't been said. The first thing that bothered me may not seem to have anything to do with the context of the Law is the question of lecturing this text of the Law in the Croatian variant, in the Croatian language on my monitor. So, using the keywords for this law are a transport directory and belonging verb transport is this quite creatively treated in this text of the Law I would say bad. This sometimes even affects the context of the Law, and it is necessary to correct it. The other thing is, I'm gonna focus on a few articles that no one has mentioned. Article 6 of this, these amendments and the addition of the Law that speaks of one thing that is trending, so use of a mobile when driving. There is little article, item (1) of this article, I think, poorly conceptd and leaves some ambiguity – whether it is necessary only to have equipment and talk about how you already talk or use it. That should fix it. I'm personally, probably this is a violation whose, uh, this is one of the violations that is increasingly more and more affecting traffic security, I've tried a little bit to question how it solved the wider environment, so to say, so they have two approaches, I'm personally, I don't know if public debate is going to focus that way, I don't know if by amendment I'm going to propose it, for a more rigorous solution. It is that there is no use of a mobile when driving, regardless of this equipment that is mentioned here, there are also such solutions in a wider environment. To be rigorous to drivers at least as much as we are in article 19 of these changes and supplement rigorous towards pedestrians whom we do not allow to use a cell phone no matter how much they walk on a sidewalk. And the third thing that got into my eye like this, not in my eye, but in my thinking, and I don't know what it's like to fix it and it bothers me, is when you look at... the amendments and the additions of the law, especially the consolidated text of the law, you see all the force of the criminal provisions, and that's good, and that should be so. When we ask ourselves who is applying this Law, or who is implementing it, these are usually people on the ground, those officers, and they may be poorly dressed, and underdressed, and poorly equipped, and underpaid. I would like to look for a solution, perhaps in the course of the construction, public debate and the second reading of this Law, in order to end most of this money in a way that those who implement this Law by means of better equipment, better wages, better customise. It seems very important in the context of law enforcement. This law, I say, has centralized often the funds that are collected on the basis of it on the basis of penalties, etc. There's so much at this stage of the first reading of this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14675	Thank you very much. Mr. Hazim Rančić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14676	Respected leadership, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Council of Ministers, the media, distinguished guests. So we have the Law on traffic safety on the road in the first reading, and we're mostly supposed to be talking, here's to principles. They are listed in the Law, they are also confirmed in their discussion and colleague Novaković, and I am of the opinion that this Law and its principles should be supported with the Commission's conclusion that we tasked them with having a public debate, and all those concerned with taking part, starting with ourselves, and here are the entity and cantonal ministries. Because if we look at this chronology and these remarks, the Law was, as it was delivered to us, done in December and in January by the Council of Ministers delivered to us, and then followed the comments, and followed the text of the Law. Therefore, these remarks could not have been included in the proposal for this law because they followed and came after the Law was adopted by the Council of Ministers and forwarded to the parliamentary procedure. It's an unusually important law, as far as we're concerned, whether we're drivers, whether we're pedestrians, whether it's some of our family members, colleagues, neighbors, so there's simply no person to which this law doesn't apply. And we need to fix it, which is also the intention and aim of the promoter, with respect for the discussions that say that it could still be in certain segments... members could be amended and complemented, and even these variations that certain colleagues and colleagues have spoken of in the process of trafficing real and abuses and crimes, perhaps criminal acts, trying to avoid the application of this Act. And of course it's our duty to find solutions and sanction such things. In connection with this last discussion, I just want to supplement this a little bit what my colleague was saying, although the debate on principles is, so this introduces a more precise ban on the use of cell phones, telephones, article 66 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements, so he added Article 235 (1) point 1 to point 1 in a way that... 1.a), 1.b) and 1.c), where 1a is a violation, did he, in fact, state the driver's behaviour contrary to Article 33, which is exactly what his colleague was talking about. And one thing and the other... refers to the members of 33th and 235th, which means that this thing is punishable with a fine of 100 to 300 KM. We can't achieve absolutely... which is illegal, we can sanction, and I advocate stricter regulations in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14677	Thank you. I don't see any more reports and I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. Moving to point five, that's it, Ad. 5. Proposal for a law on the provision of free legal assistance – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02-02-1-1-1789/16, from 28.06.2016 (first reading) The legislative and legal sector delivered its opinion on 01.07.2016 confirming that the draft law is in line with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the Uniform Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions, with certain technical errors. The respective Constitutional Legal Commission delivered its Opinion on the Bill's Proposal on 01.08.2016. The Commission has accepted the principles and established compliance with the draft law with the BiH Constitution and the Bosnia and Herzegovina legal system. I'm opening a debate. Since no one answered my question, I'm closing the debate. We're going to point six now, that's 35 Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Debt, Debt and Guarantees of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-1510/16, from 13.07.2016 (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14681	I thank the chairman. I will address myself, therefore, as it is my obligation to address my business as the legislator of the law, and then I will retain the right to address myself as a participant in the debate if necessary. I just want to point out, at the very beginning you read that the legislative sector has found technical errors, it absolutely does not stand. So, you said with certain technical mistakes, rather than the legislative and legal sector found full compliance and even said the bill's proposal reflects the rules of law in its structure, form and style, and is in line with the Single Rules. So that's about the legislative sector. I don't know, it seems to be some kind of mistake, which is where you missed that text you were reading. 36 As for the essence of the Law, which I am now going through, there is one amendment to the Law on Salaries and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and this amendment is specifically about the severance of retirement for all persons working in the institutions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In particular, it is a restriction on the total amount of severance that employees in Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions are currently entitled to. In fact, the current legal solution is that when all Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions are retired, all employees have the right to compensation in the amount of their six net salaries made in the previous six months or six average net salaries from the previous year, if that is more favourable for them, so for those with the lowest coefficient. And such a current solution leads to situations where individual employees are carrying out truly unjustly high severances that are completely disproportionate to the economic and social situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but are also contrary to the purpose of severance as such. So, when you look at all relevant reports, both domestic and international experts, it is very clear that the purpose of the severance is to facilitate someone's transition period when they retire, not to give a person an enormously high reward. And the current legal solution is really bad because it gives enormously high rewards, i.e. compensation to certain employees. Here is just an example for employees with a coefficient of 10, so the Bureau member is currently entitled to severance in the amount of a minimum of 29.820 marks, and that is a minimum, therefore, because the past work is coming, etc., so that in practice these severances are actually going on in some cases and 35,000 marks and more. So, a member of the Council of Ministers, Minister of the Council of Ministers at least 25,347 KM, Ombudsman for Human Rights, for example. coefficient 8, minimum 23,856 KM, etc. The proposed law respects Bosnia and Herzegovina's social structure and retains the right of a significant number of employees in Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions who move in those areas of severance in the amount of their six net salaries paid over the previous six months, i.e. six average salaries in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the previous year if it is more favourable for them, but introduces a simple limit on the maximum amount of severance paid on 12 average salaries paid in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the previous year. So it limits the severance to 9,960 KM. As translated into practice, all employees with a less than 3.55, so the head of the department and below, would keep the same severance in the same amount they currently have, while the restriction in practice would apply to those employees who have a 3.55 and above coefficient. There is nothing disputed about introducing these different categories, we already have a precedent in Bosnia and Herzegovina and practice, I think we have good practice in Bosnia and Herzegovina that, although the Law on Salaries says that all employees in Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions have the right to regress, for years, really long years by decision of the Council of Ministers, regress for all employees of Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions with a coefficient of 4 and more is 1 mark, while those who have a coefficient of less than 4, therefore, have this regular payment of the regress. So there's nothing questionable here for those with a 3.55 coefficient in practice, so this severance is limited to some reasonable norm, so that's the 9,960 KM. One more thing to say, so there have been a lot of criticism in the public about certain officials mostly who have received that severance. I think you need to make it very clear, unlike the fees, the example works, the commissions you can refuse, say, if you're on a commission to simply say you don't want the severance, that's what all the members of the SBB Club do regularly, the commission fee, excuse me, and the commission fee won't be paid to you, here because the severance has the character of pay you can't refuse the severance payment. So whoever is required in accounting or where it is to pay you that severance he is obliged to pay you, you can't say you want a smaller one. And then people find themselves really in a difficult situation, I can say, we had an example here of one of our colleagues who, after trying not to take the severance money, realized that there was no way he wouldn't take it, then he took it and donated it for humanitarian purposes. And there's really no need, uh, for people to expose themselves, among other things, for people to be exposed to these situations. It's the best system-based solution, so there's no pressure on anyone, and yes, and at the same time we're going to make huge savings, because here's only in any individual case when these high coefficients are in question we're going to have savings of 20,000 per person and more, so 25, 26 thousand per person. This is, to remind you once again, the Law which, the bill which received unanimous support from the Finance and Budget Commission, which is really not so often and I am extremely glad that it came across support from both entities, and positions and oppositions, etc., etc., so one really, one really correct and good debate was held on the competent Commission for Finance and Budget. So much for me as a proposing, and I say again, if there's any need, right in the debate to get involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14682	Thank you. Ambassador Predrag Kožul.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14683	Well, here I am, in a way, going to say a few words on behalf of the Committee on Finance and Budget, not only about this proposal for the law of my colleague Arnaut, but also about the conclusion that the Committee on Finance and Budget has brought with debate and vote on this bill. Indeed, the Commission for Finance and Budget supported the principles of this Act, even though I have not yet been in favour of any other legal solution, which my colleague Arnaut, conditionally, has saved, I have said about this – unlike the two previous solutions, which were adopted in this House, which, one created a series of legal misunderstandings which are now in the air and are no longer resolved, and the other legal solution required coordination and some other legal solutions to this legal solution, this legal solution, I would say, is not fighting with any other law, nor with the legal system, so it got my vote and thus unanimously supported by the Committee for Finance and Budget. I would say one other thing – it is not good for us to bring amendments and additions to this Law from the session to the session, and in the drawers lies a proposal to amend and supplement the law delivered by the Council of Ministers and which is really very important because there are solutions in it that concern a number of people from police structures and their problem is unresolved because this Law, I would say, because of one opinion of our one commission is in drawers. I appeal to the College, to all of us to get that law out of the drawer. What is defined by this conclusion of the Committee of Parliament's procedure, in the amendment procedure we can resolve in this House and the House of Peoples, but I appeal to conclude the story of amendments and additions to this Act that this Law which has been delivered to us by the Council of Ministers, if possible in business, is put back in the procedure. And that was about the Commission's conclusion, with us pointing that conclusion towards the Council of Ministers, even though we are, here we are aware that the Council of Ministers, and aware of their thinking, that they have done the job. Otherwise, if we do not go to that solution, here we will have to re-propose some fellow MPs, because of a very large number of people who suffer because of these amendments and the addition of the Law, to re-propose these partial solutions and re-sessions to discuss this Law.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14684	Just to let you know that in the procedure and this Council of Ministers law, it will come to Parliament, it should be relatively quick. 38 Ambassador Zaim Backović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14685	Thank you. Not wanting, of course, I support a way to get to some let's call it justice and justice, absolutely, but... we already had, we're about what kind of "white bread", "black bread," like this, but now to stop the mandate right now, we haven't regulated the status of MPs. Don't forget that under the existing law in the next six months we don't have the right to work, we have no right, we have no conflict of interest, read the legal solutions. We didn't solve it, and that's the way it is. Now around the severances, there are labour laws, the labour law defines acquittals, there is a defined severance, how it, how it, how and what. We now have the Law on Labour in Republika Srpska, the Law on Labour in the Federation, but we don't have it at the state level, it's gone. I am deeply interested in what if, in the term of office of MPs, there really comes a period when he is retired according to the law of one or another, two laws again, one in Republika Srpska, one in the Federation, and that severance is to him, and read when we signed, when we came to this Parliament, according to this less than the severance of his post from where he came from. There are hundreds of dilemmas, and this has to be more accessible, it simply has to, because it's something that leads to one chain, because this is what rewards all the directors of public companies, rewarding them, simply rewarding them. Or nobody's gonna retire like this anymore. What if, I say again, I'm setting up a dilemma, at this point someone has obtained the terms of the Federation law, there in law when it comes to writing one solution, from Republika Srpska writes another solution, in a law that we have at our level, here we need to make a third solution, and you're paying off tomorrow after retirement from one of the Republika Srpska Fund, the other from the Federation Fund, there's no government fund, and we're civil servants. I speak those who are employees, civil servants. You don't have a state-level law. There's hundreds of dilemmas. So, you should still go, be aware that the complexity of this country condition that these solutions should be slightly more accessible. I mentioned the example that if the term of office ceases now, we have no right to return, no matter what contract we have signed, to our jobs. We don't have that right, I'll bring it to you to see, we have no right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14686	Thank you. We don't have any more logs, we're finishing this item on the agenda. We're moving to the eighth item of the agenda, Ad. 8. Report by the Joint Commission of both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination (proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Act No: 01,02-02-1-341/16, of 04.03.2016) The Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination was adopted at the 31st session of the House of Representatives, held on 15.06.2016 and at the 21st session of the House of People, held on 14.07.2016. The law was adopted in homes in different texts, and the Joint Commission of both homes was formed to achieve identical text. The Joint Commission submitted a report on 28.07.2016. The Commission agreed on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and 39 amendments to the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination that it was adopted in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. There is no debate at this point, no debate is foreseen under the Rules of Procedure. We're going to the ninth point, Ad. Nine. Report by the Joint Commission of both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law on Changes and Supplements to the Labour Time Act, Mandatory Holidays of Mobile Workers and Road Transport Recording Devices (proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-134/15, from 01.03.2016)
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14691	I thank the chairman. I would like to stress that this Annual Report is very detailed, is abundant in a large number of information and shows the situation in the area of agriculture and rural development in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we can also conclude the relationship between all levels of government against agriculture and the development of agriculture, as well as rural development in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Also in the report, it is very stressed that unfortunately all levels of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina have been pasing the development of agriculture in recent years and reducing funds for incentives in the agricultural sector, as well as funds for rural development. What I would particularly like to stress is that the ministry in this Annual Report has stated that in the last seven years, the budget for the development of agriculture in Bosnia and Herzegovina has been drastically reduced, and we can find some way to conclude that this is a worrying fact that should be caused by attention, not only in this House, but also in parliaments of lower levels of government, which unfortunately we cannot influence. If 15% of the agricultural development budgets decrease in the last 3 years, then we can conclude that the authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina do not care too much about agriculture and rural development. Although statistics show, according to the 2013 census, that in Bosnia and Herzegovina 363.394 households deal with agricultural activity, or 31.44% of the population compared to the total number of people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, then we must face reality and conclude that it is necessary to improve sectoral policies for the development of agriculture in Bosnia and Herzegovina and to reach a consensus on the strategic framework and strategic plan for the development of agriculture and rural development in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of course, that we in this House have very scarce opportunities or almost nothing to fix and improve our relationship with agriculture and rural areas in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but in this way we can point to the importance of comments and suggestions, and the population that is more, unfortunately, poorer and who, although working and making money with their own hands and their products, is on the verge of existence and there is no quality projection for the future that is seen from this Annual Report. I would refer to rural development policy, come from a rural environment, and I care deeply about having equal and equal development policies represented in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Investments in rural areas are very scarce and budgets as we can see each year fall for rural development. We can say that there are almost no investments for rural development or more significant investments for agriculture. Bosnia and Herzegovina is a rural country, 81% of the area is precisely listed here, are rural areas and live around 61% of the population in these rural areas. And what policy of incentives, i.e. support for rural development, is seen on page 53 of this Report, where rural development funds are said to be reduced every year, and unfortunately, in 2015, the rural development budget decreased by 75% compared to previous years. 41 How the Council of Ministers and this Parliament can improve this situation can be seen in the section of the Report on the establishment of a system for the use of pre-accession EU funds intended for agriculture and rural development. Unfortunately, from 2009 to today, today 2016, they could not agree, could not agree to a single model of IPARD operational structures, which is a condition for users, i.e. Agricultural producers were able to access the EU funds intended for them, aimed at developing and promoting agricultural activity. This part of the Annual Report is the worst part of this report and he, I would say, is wrong. I was thinking I'd suggest a conclusion that this report should be back to work, but when I saw the commission report, then I quit because I know it won't go away for the reason that it's in this section under point 5.3.2. all what was in the content of the 2013 Information and everything refers to 2013. [[Employee is warned on time]] And unfortunately, the Council of Ministers did nothing to include what was in 2015, and I also made an insight into that information where there were activities that were tied up. for the possibility of harmonisation and establishment, the final establishment of IPARD operational structures for Bosnia and Herzegovina. [[Employee is warned on time]] Given that time has been cut short, this is a very important report, I have yet to suggest one conclusion because it is based precisely on this part of the Report, which reads: - The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, in line with the stressed need to include a high political level in point 5.3.2. Annual report on agriculture, nutrition and rural development for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015 asks the chairman The BiH Council of Ministers, in co-operation with the minister of foreign trade and economic relations within 30 days, organises a meeting with the president of the Federation of BiH government, the Prime Minister of Republika Srpska, the Prime Minister of Brcko District, the agriculture and finance ministers of the entity and Brcko District in order to bring the IPARD operational structures for Bosnia and Herzegovina into line. [[Employee is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14692	Mr. Emrić, you have no warning at all that two minutes have passed since the break of time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14693	This is, I would stress a very important point of the agenda...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14694	I didn't mean to take your word for it, but please...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14695	You have taken away our right to speak for 10 minutes and to prepare for the agenda of the chairmanship. I'd like to ask you to use it more rarely.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14696	It's five minutes according to the Rules of Procedure time. We were thinking whether to give it a lunch break now, we thought there was room to end the session in some, in some due time, now it's obvious that this is going to take longer and we're going to have to give it a break for lunch. So lunch break by 3:10. 42 Please take your seats so we can get back to work. The next is MP Safer Demirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14698	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I, within the Commission on Foreign Trade and Customs, participated in the development of this Report, and I would like to share with you a few indications, which I have said to the Commission, what I consider to be more important, about this report today. We have before us a report from the fields of agriculture, nutrition and rural development. The first question is which one is imposed on me – how many are the Council of Ministers, and so are we who adopt these things, in particular for agriculture and rural development, given that these things are regulated at lower levels, i.e. they are at the level of entities, cantons, and a large number of municipalities in our country have a policy of agricultural development in their own area, so that they also make certain investments in agriculture itself? For this reason, I think that over these levels, through their ministries, their laws, agriculture policy has been made an adornment where often everything is not defined properly and where we have that lately from year to year Bosnia and Herzegovina with its agricultural production is not competitive at all, especially for these neighbouring countries. So let's say Bosnia and Herzegovina becomes and markets for agricultural products from Serbia and Croatia, it seems to me that this with Croatia will be a little bit more with this SAA when it definitely comes into force. Let's say one interesting piece of information from this report is that Bosnia and Herzegovina has more exports of agricultural products to Turkey than in Croatia and Serbia together. So, farmers find ways to place their products, not competitive with these neighbouring countries solely because of their poorer relationship with them and because of the lack of a single agricultural policy and strategy in the area of agriculture. Also an interesting thing is that, within the framework of the exchanges between Bosnia and Herzegovina within CEFTA, 15% of agricultural products are placed, I do not want to be misread, but is placed on Kosovo. We almost have no imports of agricultural products from Kosovo, and we all do everything we do to reduce these 15% and further harm farmers. As for the incentive itself, I've already said that what the incentive is doing is being done at lower levels of government and those from year to year are getting smaller. In the Federation, approximately the same level is between 60 million and 70 million marks, in Republika Srpska it is smaller year by year, so instead, it seems to me that some 30 million marks were planned for this past year. As far as rural development is concerned, this is an even more catastrophic situation, 4 million and something were total investments, and we know that there is no development of agricultural production without adequate provision of life for people who live and work in those environments. What's good about the report is that even though we have this relationship, no, I'm not going to tell the state, but levels in the country towards agriculture, that in 2015 there was a significant increase in agricultural production. And what's also good is that there has been an increase in capacity in the processing of agricultural products. As part of this report, what the Ministry has proposed, certain measures that would aim to improve the conditions for our agricultural producers are also listed. And to me, these measures, which are proposed, are not well written to me, I have suggested, and I have suggested that this should have been done a little more transparent and that exactly what we need to bring at the level of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and it is related to agricultural production and rural development and what it gets 43 Bosnia and Herzegovina, or its agricultural producers, with the adoption of such documents. Because of the lack of such documents so far, let's say, we got the information that it's lost every year because of the inability to use IPA funds somewhere between 15 and 20 million euros that we could withdraw if we had brought these documents. I asked a question at one of the last sessions about the rural development strategy, and I was told that she was ready to wait for adoption. Obviously, we do not yet have a single view of agriculture at the state level, we are still afraid or afraid of importing agriculture on existing entities and I think there is still a difficult, difficult period for our agricultural producers to work with. I would ask, of course, that, and all of us not to be brakers, but to be someone who will pro-actively act to get these barriers down so that we can ensure that our agricultural producers have the best possible effects. Here, I say Last year's production, we have interested agricultural producers who want to deal with these activities. [[Employee is warned on time]] That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14699	Thank you. Ambassador Nikola Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14700	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I'd like a few sentences, so let's say from at least three angles to observe this report on the state of agriculture in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and above all from that corner where I'm the chairman of the Committee for European Integration, so let me explain these suggestions of our conclusions. Namely, since I am a member of and this other committee who was tasked with considering this report, I said there at that session that, let's say, these figures, which my colleague was talking about in front of me, can be observed one way or the other. So the report is a lot of data that gives and paints images from many angles, but they can also be viewed in different ways. So, I was missing one whole, whole approach or one assessing the access of the ministry of resolute what was going to happen in agriculture and what were the essential elements that affected the state in which they were. However, they are here somewhere in this introductory part and they were talking about some indicators of how they see it, so let's say there was an increase in the volume of plant production, so that there was an increase, I don't know, of this meat, of meat production, so that this export deficit was reduced. And on the other hand, it can be seen in this section that, for example, in 2015 was the year in which the least incentive was given. Absurd, so now post-festum is watching our story for a year about adapting to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which hasn't affected at all, therefore, in order for us to have this excuse now, we've often asked for it, but we've now solved this issue, so maybe it's also degutant to talk about it. However, it was clear, therefore, that what we are doing is not doing right, rather than accusing us of pre-adjusting the SAA as to how it will be when we see it, therefore, without the incentives it was in 2014, a certain increase in production and even a reduction in deficit has been achieved. So you can look at it that way, so we didn't do anything, we didn't do anything to be competitive, and we already accuse ourselves in advance when that happens, and we're going to be even more uncompetitive. So, but here's the time and place, because we moved that thing from a dead end. 44 On the other hand, it is seen that there is one coordination missing in this report, which is what the colleague said, but not in the way he said, it seems to me that the powers are not respected. It would be good to mention, however, how many agriculture ministries are working, someone said on that commission, so whoever is watching this report on the website or who wants to draw data from this report for their possible participation in this production, or in this business in Bosnia and Herzegovina, it would be good to know everything and who is doing all this. So you have through reports that often, from e.g. The Federations use data from the Statistics Agency, not the Ministry of Agriculture, because it obviously did not collect data from the agriculture departments of the county. It didn't even mention it in its reports that it exists as regulated bodies, and that's missing from this report. But that, that's how it is, and it would be good to get coordination, not to take someone's powers away, but to know what they do, what they can and what the real situation is. Because I compared the Federal Ministry of Agriculture's report and this, therefore, is clearly what came from the Federal Ministry and Statistics and it's not exactly the same as what I saw in the Federal Ministry's report to the Federation government. So I turned my attention so that it would be good to find it, to say, to see it in this report. When it comes to what we from the Committee on European Integration have proposed to our colleagues this one set of conclusions, I would just like to explain to you in order to make it clearer to you why we did it. In fact, we were not authorized to do so, but we are the Joint Committee of this House and the House of Peoples, and if you remember, and the College has approved that we hold a series of round tables that are related to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. This series has dealt with three topics so far, and I'm not going to be long and far about it, but about this topic in agriculture, because there's going to be another point, and we've had one round table in Bijeljina and you see one part of the conclusions that we've proposed is about exactly what we talked about there and heard on that round table. On the other hand, we intended to propose to Parliament that a special thematic session be held because of what we are talking about, and the adaptation of the SAA, and the situation, and the rural state, and the strategy, and everything else, but it seemed to us to be convenient, so it came to pass that we were doing an analysis of what we did on the round tables and that this report had arrived. So we've, uh, taken advantage of it, and it seemed convenient for you and like this Committee, which is not authorized, to suggest this part of the conclusions that can be and contribute to some future reporting and perhaps to the attention of certain phenomena in agriculture, the state of agriculture, the solving of some, the potential for solving some problems, so you look at it in that light. We brought it to the Committee unanimously, those who were, I hope you will support it and I think they only contribute to making this report better and that those who are interested have a better insight into this and that they can therefore set themselves up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14701	Thank you. Ambassador Zaim Backović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14702	Mr. Pestilence, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We have a report ahead that should give us an insight into something that is of the existential question for Bosnia and Herzegovina. And since the report itself is a set of statistical data obtained in various ways, then it is necessary to observe and try to elaborate in a way that we see where we are when it comes to self-satisfaction, all in the function of the agricultural development strategy. And I'll start with one small part, so, just fruit. From what we've got 45, we've got 6,800,000 trees, we've got 3 million and something, two trees per man, so it comes to him, one to take out, one to eat too much. Then how come all these apples from there, from there, from there, from there, imported into this country? It's a very simple question. Or according to this, there are 12,400,000 plum trees, here are 12,389,302 plum trees, divided by a population of at least 4 trees per capita. Let's have one tree each citizen eats three to take out. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Even if he drinks, no, I don't complain, especially if he's a well-fried plum. But here I'm talking about something else, where are the jams what my colleague says? What's with all the imported plums, imported plums? That's something we should also know. And like this, I can do this in order here. What exactly is this about? He's playing those numbers. If you let me out, I'll prove one is equal to two, prove it. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14705	Thank you. 46 It would be interesting to see this proof that one is equal to two. Ambassador Nikola Špirić is not here. MP Nermina Kapetanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14706	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is certain that a great deal of effort has been made to deliver such a report, but I agree with colleagues who believe that these reports could be presented more frequently to MPs of the Parliamentary Assembly. Since the future of Bosnia and Herzegovina can rest on agriculture, according to experts, then we could receive such reports over a period of six months. It is also worrying, this one, that I agree with colleagues who have said that the fact is that the lower incentives are at lower levels of the agriculture authorities, and we are full of agriculture mouths as opportunities to survive citizens, most of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14707	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14708	Taking into account the fact that, we had the opportunity to hear that one of the ministers in the Council of Ministers said that raspberries can represent the most profitable fruit for exports from Bosnia and Herzegovina, the fact that 320% of the increase in raspberries exports from Bosnia and Herzegovina, however, concerns me that in the total exports of fruits from Bosnia and Herzegovina, a plum that is a Bosnian hergic brand, is only at a percentage of 9%, and 4%, apples 9%, and plums 4%, it worries. The construction producers of plums that produce one of the best plums in the world are found with a price of 0.69 euros per kilogram of plum that represents a protective price, but there is a terrible bad thing going on in the economy and after the survival of fruit growing, let's just say, here we are talking about the region of Gradačac, making sure that about five-sixths of what has produced their failures due to the inability to export to the countries of the region, because they do not have the possibility to place their products. I think the Council of Ministers in co-operation with the entity ministry should consider that. Many are mentioned in the report, the Law on Agriculture, Nutrition and Rural Development of Bosnia and Herzegovina is mentioned. I would like to see the next report declared by the Resort Ministry, the Foreign Trade Ministry, on the fact that although the Law was passed in 2008, it was almost entirely not implemented. I am in charge of the fact that Article 7 other than point 1) in Article 7 is mainly not implemented, and those which are only partially implemented. In Article 12, which deals with the Strategic Rural Development Plan, which says the decision is taken by the foreign trade ministry in co-operation with entity ministries and the Brcko District ministry. There are also inconsistencies, inconsistencies and unrealization. In Article 14, they are not, and I think the Ministry of Foreign Trade must make sure that points (a) and (b) treated by the registers, I am talking about the Register for the Identification of Animals of Bosnia and Herzegovina and about the Register of the System of Identification of Land parcels of Bosnia and Herzegovina, have not been established, these registers have not been established at all, although the Law provides for them to be established. It is scary and worrying that if we do not respect all the obligations by the end of 2016, especially in terms of drawing up a rural development strategy in Bosnia and Herzegovina and establishing an IPARD structure in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the IPARD funds will fail, not briefly but by 2020. And I think it's something the Council of Ministers needs to talk about. In Article 15 of that same Law, the databases mentioned have never been established. Also, Article 16 that treats the coordination of information on agriculture, 47 objectively such coordination although it has very weak and I think that the Council of Ministers must also consider the fact that Article 17, that no provision of Article 17 has been implemented. Article 26, which provides for the harmonisation of the rules, is also not the harmonisation of the rules at all realised. I would just ask, hopefully, that it is very regrettable that there is no one from the Ministry of Foreign Trade here to give us perhaps some answers to questions that are clearly among our colleagues, I am not clear to the role of the Office for Harmonisation and Coordination of the Payment System in Agriculture, Food and Rural Development of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which, by its name and in the measure of setting up, is said to me that this is the administrative organisation in the composition of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of Bosnia and Herzegovina with clearly defined competences and that these powers have been taken over from Article 13. Agriculture, nutrition and rural development laws. But what bothers me is the fact that even though the Office is in the membership of the said Ministry, there are many problems that arise from the fact that in Article 13. The law on agriculture, nutrition and rural development of Bosnia and Herzegovina still states that the ministry is responsible for the tasks assigned to the Office for Harmonisation by a decision on the establishment of the Office, so one legal ambiguity. It also appears in the Action Plan for the Implementation of the Priorities of the European Commission Report on Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015, on the Progress Report, which for all those activities provided for by the Office's Decision, and the activities have been restored to the Ministry of Foreign Trade, which creates confusion and inability to act actively, and especially since this does not apply to the Office for Plant Protection and Veterinary Office, which are also... in the composition of the Ministry, but is not specifically indicated in this document for activities under its jurisdiction. I believe that Bosnia and Herzegovina can have, may have a good future in terms of farming in Bosnia and Herzegovina's citizens, but I also believe that a country that has such a high percentage of unprocessed land behaves automatically. There are countries in the world that have introduced tax on unprocessed land and I think Bosnia and Herzegovina should think about it, and, of course, the tax excludes persons who are powerless, old or sick, and the rest of the farmland should be brought in for the purpose and process at least what we can export. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14709	Thank you. Ambassador Salko Sokolović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14710	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, I'm going to say a few words about this report, and it concerns the Council of Ministers' obligations and I think we need to talk about it here today, what is in our jurisdiction, or what we MPs can do specifically when it comes to this problem of agricultural production. In the Map of Roads whose aim is to achieve the conditions for exporting products of plant and animal origin, a significant place is covered by these amendments to the law, amendments and additions to the Food and Veterinary Act, agriculture, nutrition and rural development. I will remind us, I have on several occasions asked through parliamentary issues to be resolved, that amending these laws is the task of the European Commission for Food and Veterinary Use when it comes to our exports of milk, dairy, meat and meat products to EU countries. A year ago a professional technical body was formed, or here on July 29th, 2015, to prepare the drafts of the laws mentioned, forward to the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, and that 48 further to the Council of Ministers, and the Council of Ministers to put it into parliamentary procedure. Here, it's been a year and not to say how many more time periods before, and that we are not done with that obligation, which is defined in the Road Map. And I think that if we solve this very important question from the Roadmap that and this report for next year will be far more quality, this one, because we will provide conditions, is it, for exporting milk and dairy products, meat and meat products outside Bosnia and Herzegovina without any clauses. Today we have this story in some way in a way that we are allowed to export in one period of time, so the EU commission will come again to see if we have carried out these obligations, but that is what our people say from today to tomorrow. It is strategically addressed through the adoption of amendments and complementing these three laws mentioned, and here I am not clear that the Ministry, or the Council of Ministers, did not make an additional effort to resolve this issue. I know it's negotiations with entity ministries, this one, but jurisdiction is in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in any case it needs one more quality way and with more effort in the coming period. And in that direction here I'm thinking of forming one conclusion towards the Council of Ministers. And the second question is what I was talking about this morning, also through the parliamentary question, is the blue diesel. If we truly want to help agricultural producers to be competitive on the world market we have to open this story, regardless of what we are at this point, here we heard this morning from Minister Šarović, closed with this story about the reduction of excise duty in order to increase the excise duty on diesel fuel to provide the highway. I think that in Bosnia and Herzegovina it is more important to reduce diesel fuel prices or define blue diesel, and then in this way help agricultural production and create a lot of new jobs or keep existing, and this is a significant activity. I think that in this direction we should all think, the highway can work through concession contracts, and this excise, or its reduction or definition of blue diesel, must not, in my opinion, be an obstacle to the Council of Ministers to help agricultural production in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here are two very important segments, which, together with the Parliamentary Assembly, can bring through the legislative procedure, which can, in one way, improve domestic agricultural production. It is also highlighted in this report as a problem, I do not know why it is highlighted if there is no intention of solving it. Here's what I'm guessing is that, uh, here we are through these discussions and... which tomorrow will take over and the Council of Ministers will feel one dose of more responsibility to solve this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14711	Thank you. We are no longer registered, or Mr Špirić is not present, so I am concluding the debate at 11th point. We're going to point 12, Ad. 12. Report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency for 2015, issue: 05/8-50-19-1157/16, dated 15.04.2016 The Commission for the Selection and Monitoring of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against Corruption submitted its opinions to the House's colleges on the Report on 11/05/2016. 49 The Joint College of both homes decided to forward the Report to the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly for further action. The Joint Commission for European Integration also discussed the report and accepted the conclusion it had given to homes for consideration. You've got the materials. I'm opening a debate. Ambassador Nikola Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14713	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, as in the previous point, even though we are not from the College, therefore, obliged to discuss this report, given that these points as well as previous very important issues concerning the SAA and European integration of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and also we have held a roundtable in Mostar concerning, a pardon in Knights, which concerned these issues and were just our guests from the Agency and some of the courts and prosecutors, we have dealt with this topic in a way that we can see where we are at this moment when we are at European standards, which we still lack. Some conclusions have been reached there and we have also tried to use this as we have at the previous point when this report has already appeared that we do not insist on a specific point of the agenda, to see, therefore, how the Strategy is implemented, so we were free to consider it at the Committee for European Integration, jointly. We have also unanimously reached this proposal of the conclusions that we offer to you, or colleagues in the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, in addition to this report, by supporting this Report, therefore adopt these conclusions concerning the existing Anti-Corruption Strategy and its prevention. So here's just an explanation of what we've been doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14714	Thank you. Ambassador Jasmina Emrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14715	I will be very brief, and this report is also concerned because it is detailed and can be seen from the same that the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption in 2015 has met the expectations and plans and programme of its work. I would like to congratulate the Director on the Agency's work and leadership so far, because as far as I can see in point 15, where there will be a report on the designation of candidates for the appointment of the Director of the Agency that it is not envisaged that the Director will renew the mandate from these, from this Report, I am suggesting it. That is why I would like to congratulate the Director on his work so far, on everything he and his deputies have done during the term of office for which this Parliament has been reported neatly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14716	All right, thank you. We're finishing this point, no more reports. We're going to point 13, 50 Ad. 13. Report on the occurrences of discrimination in Bosnia and Herzegovina with Action Plan for the implementation of the proposal for measures to prevent discrimination in Bosnia and Herzegovina – applicant: BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, material number: 03/6-37-1569-1/16, since 01.06.2016 On 20 July 2016, the Joint Committee on Human Rights of the Parliamentary Assembly submitted a proposal for the inclusion of this Report in the agenda of the sitting and Opinion on the Report. The Commission unanimously accepted the report and proposed its adoption to the House. I'm opening a debate. We don't have any charges to discuss, I'm closing the hearing. Moving to point 14, Ad. 14. Analysis of the reform of education in Bosnia and Herzegovina, material of the Council of Ministers, issue: 01-50-1-415/16, since 14.07.2016 (realisation of the parliamentary initiative adopted at the 25th session of the PSBiH House of Representatives, held on 16.02.2016)
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14719	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome all my colleagues here present. I thank the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Civil Affairs for this report on education reform in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I must admit that I am not satisfied, that somewhere in secret I was hoping that this initiative would be recognized, that we would eventually get appropriate recommendations, that these recommendations would show how important it is for our children and for us. I will now only make a brief summary of this Report in which we see that according to the Statistics Agency in 2015, in 2016, 311 secondary schools or 133,268 did work. Of that number of secondary schools 210 are secondary vocational schools and that means, which is very important in this matter for me, that 72% of the total number of students attend vocational schools, and that somewhere around 28% attends whether it's a gymnasium, whether it's an art school or a religious school. Unfortunately, we do not see any information from this report on the number of children who have not enrolled in high school. The federal ministry explains that in Bosnia and Herzegovina we have three counties that have introduced two-year compulsory secondary education, namely the counties of the Un-Sancan Canton, the Bosnian-Ponin canton of Gorazde and Canton of Sarajevo. And now I'm going to quote a little report – but even in these cantons this kind of education has not been realised in practice and so far no student has acquired a qualification based on this possibility. Then we get individual reports from certain cantons, counties, and then we see contradictions so that Report 51 of the Ministry of Education of the Bosnian-Poninian Canton of Gorazde points out that it is in Article 185. The law on secondary education is defined as compulsory secondary education for two years and the application of which began in 2012/2013. In this Canton high school education is available to every child and all children who finish primary school continue their education in high school. So this is a quote from this report we got. We also have some positive reports, and a positive report gives us Republika Srpska which says that in Republika Srpska the percentage of secondary education is around 100%. West Herzegovina County says it's about 99%. Unfortunately, some ministries did not make up their own report, and what an interest it is in secondary education comes from a bright example from the Croatian-Neretva County in which the support of the Caritas Institute for the Education of Adults Social Education Centre was opened in 2015, which included as much as 1,898 adults in 63 programmes for four years of occupations. And I think this information tells us how necessary high school education is. Unfortunately, every county in its report supports this project, but it is being built that the biggest obstacles to finance are, and our finances will not fall from the sky, but if we want the economic development of the county, we need to establish a modern, flexible, high-quality secondary education that will meet the needs of the labour market. I hope that people in county positions will not always compare with the Western Balkans, because it says, as this report says, that no Western Balkan country has compulsory secondary education. Unfortunately, I've always liked to compare myself with better than myself, and I hope that in the years ahead, they will have more hearing for the future of our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14720	Thank you. Ambassador Nikola Lorinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14721	Thank you. So just now reports of discrimination in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as the one on agriculture, and this, therefore, is an incredible intensity primarily of the federal ministry, and then the ministries that inform us about different topics, that at least in their reports they do not say that there are, say, social welfare ministries and in the counties. So it's amazing that someone is watching those reports he would think it doesn't exist, there are shared responsibilities, laws, etc., here are even the original responsibilities and you can never find it, it's an incredible resistance of those especially people from the Federation who... even at the cost of not delivering the data that is needed in agriculture, they will not indicate that there is in the counties and laws and ministries, it's an amazing one phenomenon that I will fight while I am here in this mandate and try to get into the reports at least as information to those who want to read this in more detail. When it comes to this analysis at the Committee, I said that I would support it only on condition that the following changes to this report are accepted, as far as I know I have the same text, no one has delivered anything new, and I don't think this has been affected because Mrs Tomić's theme was a question of the possibility of introducing compulsory secondary education, and a broader analysis is given here, but when it was given then to be accepted, as far as I'm concerned, the HDZ Club can be only with the following changes. On page 3 in the first paragraph of the introduction, I suggest that the words "all ministers" be replaced by the words "only some ministers". So I asked and the Committee is not exactly informed that in 52 2002, all the ministers signed those five promises, but an unauthorized federal minister and his deputy. So no county minister signed an education reform in 2002. I'm not being held accountable, so since I'm not asking for it to be entered or denied. Furthermore, I ask that the text relating to the Federal Ministry of Education and Science be thrown out on page 8. and that the following text is added to the analysis instead – According to the Law on Federal Ministrys and other bodies of the Federal Administration within the Federal Ministry of Education and Science, there is and acts by the Federal Ministry of Education and Science, which, according to the amended Law after the Constitutional Court's decision, carries out administrative, professional and other tasks established by law relating to co-ordination, planning and activities in the field of pre-school, primary, secondary and higher education and all matters related to these areas. The existence and authority of this ministry, as well as the Ministry of Culture, also challenged the Federation of BiH Constitutional Court since the original powers in the area of education are in the counties. The Constitutional Court's decision is reportedly respected by adding only the word "coordination", activities that, regardless of the Constitutional Court's decision, continue to be carried out by the Federal Ministry in this area in the Federation area, act against the law and very often in only one part of the Federation. This issue should finally be resolved by Parliament of the Federation by adopting amendments and additions to the Law on federal ministries and other bodies of the federal administration. On page 15, in the seventh section, where nine years of education is mentioned, the second model of nine-year-old education that speaks of triad 1+4+4 which has already been carried out for a generation, and there is no one there. Why? Well, because the Department of Civil Affairs just got information... that has no idea that's how it's done. Furthermore, on page 19, in the third section, which discusses the allegations of the Federal Ministry of Education, namely the recommendations adopted by the Federation government, the following text should be added – As the Federal Ministry of Education and Science has already been said in this analysis, as well as the Government of the Federation does not have constitutional powers to reach any conclusions, recommendations and decisions concerning the areas of education. So that ministry actually acted outside its powers and manipulated the Federation government when it adopted those recommendations. Those recommendations from the text on page 20 should be deleted because they are not relevant. Further, in an analysis on page 21 of the text on the work of the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sports of the Zenic-Doboj Canton, information should be added on the powers in the area of education of the municipalities of Zepce and Usor belonging to them under the Constitution. On page 42, at the end of the text relating to the summary, I suggest that the Paralemantary Assembly of BiH, apart from accepting this analysis, with these changes, draw two conclusions: 1. The House of Representatives of the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Resolute Ministrys of Entity and County requests the strengthening of the work of the Ministers' Conference, which means their regular session at least every 2 months. 2. The House of Representatives is seeking to submit a report on the work of the Ministers' Conference at least twice a year to the Council of Ministers and once to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. So that two conclusions would be with the proposal of these amendments, if no one can, or if Parliament can accept them, and we will vote yes, if not then nothing.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14722	Thank you. I'm closing the hearing on the 14th point. We're going to 15 points, 53 Ad. 15. Report on the designation of candidates for the appointment of directors and two deputy directors of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency, Commission material for the selection and monitoring of the work of the Anti-Corruption Prevention Agency, No. 01.02-34-1-932/16, of 13.07.2016 On 13 July 2016, the Interim Joint Commission submitted a report on the establishment of a ranking of candidates for the appointment of directors and two deputy directors of the Anti-Corruption Prevention Agency and co-ordination of the fight against corruption. According to the established rank of candidate for the appointment of the director of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency, Asim Šabotić and candidates for the appointment of two deputy directors of the Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency against Corruption are Dragan Slipac and Dragan Anđelić. I'm opening a debate. Ambassador Mirsad Isaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14724	Thank you, Chairman. In fact, the Commission's conclusion is that the report submitted, I was appointed to submit a report on the work of this Commission, and accordingly I would only like the chronology of the events in the short lines, is that it. Therefore, on the basis of Article 13(5) of the Law on the Prevention of Corruption at the 6th session, held on 17 February 2016, it adopted a Decision on the opening of a Public Competition for the appointment of directors and two deputy directors of the Anti-Corruption and Co-ordination Agency. During that time, the Commission concluded that the Public Competition from the Decision would be published in the Official Journal, etc., etc., in which newspapers. The Commission then adopted the text of the Public Competition for the appointment of directors and two deputy directors at the 7th session held on 2 March 2016. At the same session, the Commission adopted the text of the Public Competition Notice. It was then held on 6 April 2016, where the Commission concluded that 24 applications submitted to this Public Competition had arrived on a timely basis. On this occasion, the Commission found that six candidates appeared for the position of director of the Agency, 6 for the post of deputy director, while 12 candidates submitted applications to both positions called for by the Public Competition. By taking into account the documentation submitted, the Commission found that 23 candidates, providing complete and orderly applications, met the conditions provided for in the Public Competition, while 1 candidate, i.e. the candidate, did not deliver. At its 9th session, held on 5 May 2016, the Commission found that 22 candidates for Director and Deputy Director of the Anti-Corruption and Co-ordination Agency... were preceded by a statement and a form referred to in Article 10d (1). On 13 May 2016, the Commission forwarded the forms submitted to SIPA and the CEC in order to establish the necessary verifications provided for in Article 13(1) of the Law and of Article 10a) of the Council of Ministers Act. On 17 June 2016, the Commission called for an interview with 22 candidates who passed all the procedures envisaged by law for the selection of directors and two deputy directors. On the date, time and place of the interview, all candidates were informed by written means and telephone. At the 10th session, held on 23 June 2016, the Commission found that 18 candidates for the position of directors and two deputy directors of the Agency had responded to the interview, while 4 candidates had not responded to the call for an interview. 54 In line with the legal and business provisions at the 11th session of the Commission, held on 13 July 2016, a ranking of candidates for the director of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption was established. That list has been accepted, I must point out, unanimously. So it was accepted unanimously and we delivered this list to Parliament for adoption. So much for the Commission. All the misunderstandings of course...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14725	Thank you for the comprehensive report on the great effort that the Commission has made. MP Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14726	There's some details missing, but, well, we can do it...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14727	But that's why you can see how much the Commission has suffered, but the most problematic thing is just what was unanimous. I thought that at least at some level the Commission had kept its own dignity, not to hurt it, but, uh, you shouldn't have said that. You have done so not only to yourself but to the entire Commission. Now let me tell you what this is about. So we know first that, today we have two points related to these appointments. One is this item of the agenda, which we are discussing, that is the point of the 15th election of directors and vice directors and point 17. It is the report of the committee responsible for the selection, the appointment from the academic community to this Commission. Now watch out, watch out how things are set up, so it's said "the vlas don't come up," but there they come up with it. So imagine this item of the agenda that speaks of the selection of directors and vice directors, it is a committee completed, processed on 13th of July, but was not placed at the 34th session of the House of Representatives, and the second one, 17th, which we are about to discuss now, is being processed on 19th of July, and it was placed as a point. So, the one that went six days later she was put in. And it immediately occurred to me that there was a little bit of a look at what was going on, that I wanted to see. Given the bad experience, I was in that commission when this Commission was first elected, and I know it was very unpleasant, I remember that we had to, then there was this love between the SNSD and the SDS, and that we had to leave that place to SDS that Mr. Sreto Pekić had come to, who was only remembered by what he dreamed he would hire 20 people, get a car and cabinet, and these were all the anti-corruption capacities that were his. But I didn't know we were going to go any worse now, I didn't know that. I looked online about people who are now in a position to fight for this function. For the director, so he was nominated, here's how I hear and suggested quite, Hasim Šabotić. I looked online if anyone knew this man and in one place mentioned the name, such a name, participated in the name of the SIPA Financial Intelligence Department at some seminar, so he had a referendum, and it was all his public appearance. So, as far as this position is concerned, a completely anonymous man. The second is for the director, as regards deputies in this case are Dragan Slipac and Dragan Anđelić. Dragan Slipac is a man who... performed that function within this agency, was practically familiar as a man with whom we worked well, as well as with Mr. Lisak, and Mr. Lisak went so well that he went to third place in his candidacy as director. So... Šabotić Hasim had 712 points, and look at the wonders of Sead Lisak 655. In the deputy candidate, here's Sead Lisak is also in third place. Now, 55 is the most important place that is related to the order of the Serb people, that is Dragan Anđelić. I couldn't do it, I had to work hard on the Internet, there's a lot of, uh, information on the Internet. Here are a few cited -- former director of "Vode Srpske" against whom criminal charges for abuse of position have been filed is suspected of misusing the position and damaging "Vode Srpske" by 240,000 marks. He concluded contracts close to 100,000 marks against the provisions of the Public Procurement Act. Furthermore, an investigation into Angelic was conducted earlier in 2008, when he committed several crimes as director of Elektro Bijeljina's company, damageing the company by several million marks. Furthermore, police reports burden him with suspicion that he committed a crime of abuse of official office or authority, abuse of authority in the economy, unconscious service work. There's more, but you don't need it anymore. So if we decide to put a man like that in charge of an agency like this that has yet to be fully revived, if we put such a man to fight to make this agency a more significant step, then we've put an end to the fight against corruption. And here you have directly stamped that people who are known for corruption should fight them. I know that places are being set up according to the parliamentary majority, but I ask you to have, to take care of it, because the Commission's work has been so secretive. That's why it shouldn't have come to the agenda. The media made so much noise about it that it wasn't supposed to be put on, it was now thought that it would be forgotten and bazaarized in all of this. [[Embacia is warned on time]] Please don't let you bury today's last kind of fight against corruption.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14728	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Damir Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14729	I thank the chairman. I think it is extremely interesting that Mrs. Majkić, the man stood up here and said that the Commission had implemented the procedure, explained very closely, uh, what the Commission had done and then that she had reached a unanimous decision, and Mrs. Majkić was getting up and saying – you shouldn't have said that. And then she says that when she was, if I understood you correctly, on the same committee that you left something behind, that you had made a deal before and left it to the SDS. If something wasn't supposed to say, you weren't supposed to say it, especially when it... it was about.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14730	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegation, Mirsad Isaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14731	Well, maybe I was obliged, maybe my report wasn't... but I should have said that, so all these candidates got full consent from SIPA and CEC. So when you talk about corruption, I think you have to tell the SIPA or the CEC that it wasn't right, and these are, therefore, reports that say it. On the one hand. On the other hand, I'm a little surprised that you mentioned Mr. Hasim Šabotić. I'll read his, uh, only do your information, so... 56 __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, the man spent time fighting,
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14733	There's no need for me to think about reading...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14734	to fight corruption in the financial sector. Now, since 2010, the investigator of the Department has been investigating the crimes of money laundering and the financing of terrorist activities of the Financial Intelligence Department, research into the Department of Criminal Crimes Investigation, Research, etc., all... So that's what this is about. He wasn't just working at the seminar. There, thank you, that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14735	Thank you. Ambassador Zaim Backović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14736	So it wouldn't turn out to be a replica, I signed up for the discussion. It is degutant that we here are discussing something that you have spent and without a doubt whether you have spent it in professional, I don't know what kind of colour of eyes, hair color or belonging to a nation, religion or belonging to a political stranger. We here now can talk for 300 days, the deal is reached. And as for these points we once talked about and you know yourself that these points are points I think this is, this is what we're going to, we're going to, we want this, we agreed to be these, and why we're wasting time here. I mean, it's pointless. It's real. And these kinds of choices are purely political. And that is what a member of the Commission should say when it comes out – we from the government, the political parties that form, have agreed to tell us the names. Because people are miserable, it says how many people have competed, because here there are, I don't want to say names right now, given the circumstances of some I know, they're great, so I know some, but there are so many good people in this entire list that we're wrong to mention any names. And there are, I must say, surprising reports to me too. Therefore, those who exercise power should propose a law on how to choose these, and the next one that will come to us, agencies, institutions, I don't know what anymore, because as soon as someone new comes, they'll find a way to change them all, as it happens with a list. So we need to do it as soon as possible because we're suffering by reading, unreading, and don't put us in a situation where we're looking at who's who, but if you're suggesting then give us full information about the candidates you've proposed, which means give us the biographies, so we'll see. Not to be like what he wrote, and the Minister of Economy in the Federation was that at the age of 18, he became the chief engineer at the Termo Power Plant in Kaknja, the chief engineer at the Termo Power Plant in Kaknja. At the age of 18, he was technically admitted to Kakanj after finishing high school. And imagine only in the war graduated from the Faculty of Engineering in Zenica, so he as the chief engineer was almost 20 years, almost 20 years. And so on. You give us their biographies, then we can talk, because this is how it really is... And imagine that, too, that machine, managed to end up in the period when he was commander of the brigade. It's an amazing thing. But here, we have these situations. Give us your biographies so we can talk, not that we're investigating. 57
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14737	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Hanka Vajzović
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14738	Thank you, Chairman. Actually, I'm not correcting the wrong assumption, but I want to join, so I called before my colleague Backović said in the end, so one general grudge. Don't even look on the Internet, don't read our biographies here, we choose ministers, I don't know, directors, appointments, and we don't know anything about it, we need to make a statement. So let's change the practice, let's share before that at least the shortest, reduced little CV, something to know anything about candidates so that we can, this is how it's all memorized. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14739	Thank you. This is usually done by the Commission, meaning those CVs and other things. We don't have any more reports at this point. We're going to point 16th, Ad. 16. Election of members of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in accordance with Article 4 (1) point n) of the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina, material of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina, No 01-08-1968/16, of 20.07.2016 The High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council delivered a notice on the need to elect a member of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH on 20 July 2016. The obligation of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to elect a member of the Council is prescribed by Article 4 (1) point 2) of the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH. At a session of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH, it was decided that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives should elect a member who is a Serb national, female member. The term of office of the elected member shall be four years and shall begin to expire on the end of the term of office of the previously elected member. He proposed to the House's Milijan, Millian Buha. I think you've got the CV. I'm opening a debate. Ambassador Damir Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14741	I'll do it. I'll try it as short as possible. I think it is defeating that someone is choosing, that gender and nationality are determined by drawing, which is prescribed by the VSTV Regulation signed by Branko Perić. So it's an amazing thing to choose people by drawing on such responsible functions. And secondly, and what we got from this VSTV information is, it simply says that these are people who shouldn't be involved at all in political activities, political parties' activities, but 58 unfortunately this is just like these previous appointments, past the point we had, political naming. I'm sorry to have to say this, but it seems that the SDS has also taken SDA, HDZ, SNSD rates, by appointing its members in particular, to VSTV. So, Ms. Milijana Buha is a member of the SDS Justice Committee and her maiden name is Lepir, so it's a little harder to get that data, and she was even a candidate on the list in 2014. So these are the people who have to choose judges and prosecutors. I'm sorry the SDS is doing this, and I'm sorry we're listening, here's a year and a half of your fight, your story about fighting corruption, the prosecution, the judiciary, which is also one of the worst segments of our society. So it's simple, but you're headed in the direction that you choose, in the same way as your partners in power, both judges and prosecutors in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And because of this, we will have in Bosnia and Herzegovina and this degree of corruption, this degree of crime, and we will have the situation that public institutions, state institutions, entity institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina are the generator of corruption and crime in our country. This is also another political appointment in a series, not only of yours, but also of the SDA, HDZ and others, which should be rejected in any case.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14742	Okay, this is a political appointment as soon as it is appointed by the BiH Parliament, not by another body. Therefore, Ms. Milijan is not a member of any SDS organ. She was once a member of the party and it fits fully into the demands that exist according to this place. So, just to warn you, it's about an honorable, young girl who, I think, also doctored, who worked hard and who founded a family, and that's why she changed her name. And I don't, it's one of the people I would never be ashamed of. Here you go. Dama Bećirović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14743	I really didn't say anything about the lady in question because I don't know, and I suppose at such a small age if she managed to doctor at the University of Banja Luka that she was also an expert in that part of her profession, but this simply, this can't happen. Because of these appointments and because of the VSTV we currently have in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we have this kind of crime and corruption rate, we have this number of unsolved political cases in the BiH Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14744	Thank you. Zaim Backović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14745	I don't know how I'd do it again if there wasn't a replica, so I have to. I would ask you if that is possible, since I am a member of this honorable House, to avoid this part of which is spoken the practical cast of who will be and what will be. This isn't a rhombola, this isn't a lottery, these aren't bookies, and I'd ask you to avoid that kind of communication with the MPs. So there are legal solutions and it's said -- based on this and that, based on that and this. I don't know what else, but next, the lottery decided who would be a sex, where, how, it still doesn't go. This is too serious an institution to choose who's going to be at the raffle, so I'd ask you to get a correction in this 59 text, because if this kind of text goes away, these are documents that someone will once analyze, and they'll laugh at us more than they will laugh at us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14746	Thank you. Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14747	Well, I didn't expect that defense to be understood by you, I expected you to show as a gesture of goodwill that you don't agree to it. It is not this point just now or this point to be brought in such a way that directly those who are members of your party will be appointed, directly members. So, I didn't expect you to go that far. And I ask you not to do that, to withdraw one and another proposal, because what will happen if you do so to the public you should know that in such bodies as the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, such as the Anti-Corruption Agency, you directly appoint and constantly appoint party people. Don't be so open. So, please don't let us show the whole public how far this House has come and what it has fallen to. These are so many two atypical things, you have seen how much the public reacted to this point just now, and for this other one we didn't know, here is now that he is not a colleague Bećirović, you can't catch everything, you can't find everything, but that you put people directly, that she is not a member of any body is a member of your party. And it's not correct, you talk about the independence of the judiciary all the time, is this how you show it.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14748	Thank you. Damir Bećirović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14749	I reacted here, not only to the SDS, but to what you did over the years as SNSD, HDZ, SDA, all of you who acted in power. Because you've been doing this for 20 years, we've had a situation like this in the country. And there's no need for you to be critical of SDS, because that's just the situation.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14750	Thank you. Ambassador Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14751	Thank you, Mr. President. As far as Mr Anđelić, mentioned by her dear colleague Majkić, is not a member of the SDS, has long been excluded from the SDS and has been in coalition with you. Another thing, as far as the esteemed Mrs. Buha is concerned, I am giving anyone in this House the right to refer criticism, but not to the SNSD's Club of Representatives. You know why? Do we remember when the high official, the vice president of the SNSD, was elected Judge of the Constitutional Court, and returned from the chair of the Constitutional Court as 60 SNSD delegates in the House of Peoples? Where did you get the right to give us moral lessons? And I invite all my colleagues here to find any statement of honor, whether the Buha is the last name, in the last two years. You won't find any. Yes, she was a member of our committee earlier, doing her profession, but here's the last two years you won't find any of her statements, nor is she publicly involved because the lady then founded her family and retired from this part of the public political, whatever you want, life.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14752	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegations, MEP Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14753	If something's ever done wrong, I guess it shouldn't be a motive and the next one's doing even worse. Krstan Simić resigned himself for membership in the High Court and Prosecutor's Office, no one replaced him, unlike others who were also party members, so they stayed. There is, and here we are talking about the morality of the people who work there. So show a good example that you're better, don't show the opposite, because what you're doing with this proposal is you're showing the opposite. Do something to show people that you brought the paper that means there's no corruption, we're looking for and we're fighting for the independence of the judiciary, and here's an example of how we do it. All the opposite of what you're doing. I'm still asking you, you still have time to withdraw both and other suggestions.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14754	Thank you. Lazar Prodanov, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14755	Correction of the false allegations to the esteemed colleague Pandurević. The Constitutional Court judge has been dismissed. And right now let me tell you the principle must be in the judicial institutions. I am not speaking at all now as a member of the political party, but as a man who, incompatibility is the position of any of the individuals in the judicial institutions that he was in political office. So, you know, I believe in the High Court and Prosecution Council, for known reasons, there's no one from the SNSD, but if there's any need to drive him out, it needs to be expelled. Look, if there's any need to kick him out right now because it's complete, so completely, I respect... I've read, I can't say anything about a lady of honor, but please, she can be a minister of justice or a deputy minister of justice, a member of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, I'm not sure. [[You don't understand.]] But it's a matter of making a majority decision. So, any mistakes, unforgivable mistakes have happened to us in some segments, they can't be present in the judiciary because we're all going to devastate the entire institution. I don't know, maybe a respectable person will be absolutely impartial on anything. But I know now that some people use the names of judges and prosecutors based on their political position. It's amazing to me, it's a devastation of both that institution and that judge or prosecutor. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14756	61 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14757	Mr. Mladen Bosić, chairman of the House, corrected the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14758	First of all, I think that the judiciary is the most catastrophic part and the segment of society and institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina at all levels. That because of the corruption in the judiciary, this is the situation on both political and other terms, that because of the lack of a rule of law, which doesn't work here, everyone knows it, we just can't get out of the mud, that because of the corruption that sucks millions of marks out of this country's budget, or these entities, or these cantons, or municipalities, have to be in debt and sink deeper and deeper into poverty. And corruption is the biggest problem of this society, and judicial corruption is the priority of all priorities. That is why we have proposed a young person who has shown all the qualities in his career at the Faculty of Law in Banja Luka, which is because for a time she was engaged in the SDS has experienced an unprecedented chicaning and stopping in general progress in the academic career at the University of Banja Luka, and has therefore withdrawn from the SDS from public life, due to the shikaning at the Faculty of Law in Banja Luka. And because we know that the girl is moral, that the girl isn't corrupt, she's not a girl, she's a woman, so we suggested her. And I'm proud that she's our candidate. And what happens? So you've got the propriety at the High Court and Prosecutorial Council which is practically not, it can't be breached on either side. It's a closed circle of justice that makes all decisions and sets up fate within them several people. And we think it should be broken and it was a motive why we're a woman who was in no way directed into any judicial intrigue, not working in the judiciary, working at the university, why we just proposed her. And why is it a Srpkinja and female, so that's because it's in the rules for selecting that member of the High Court and Prosecution Council. One member is elected by the BiH Parliament, and the rules have turned out to be to draw what characteristics it should have. And that's all for everything behind this, so there's no secrets. I think you guys Milijan making a big moral mistake because it's a unique person. Well, I'm lucky, too, so I met her, and it's an honor that we can propose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14759	Thank you very much. Mrs. Borjana Krišto, deputy chairman, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14760	I listened very carefully, so I thought I'd take this approach to the remarks I'd heard. I am truly saddened by what I heard here in Parliament. Today, the election of a VSTV member is on the agenda of one elected by Parliament's House of Representatives, of course by law and conditions, and this High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, according to some, numbers 15 members. And if we are the ones, which is why both the judiciary and the VSTV will be politically colored and bear responsibility, then I am ready to say right now that I will not support this or that, if anyone can convince me. And the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, I repeat, numbers 15 members that were not affected, nor could the Council of Ministers nor the Parliamentary Assembly, or the House of Representatives. I don't know the lady personally but I will support her, and neither we, nor she herself will be able to change the picture of the judiciary in either the VSTV or the general judiciary and the function of the rule of law. We know where it is, our judiciary has hit the bottom, no matter what anyone thinks, and that's why we have a responsibility because we don't want to deal with it. We keep saying that the judiciary is politically corrupt, like this, someone is influencing. Who is it that 62 can affect the judiciary? Which clearly doesn't say here. Which he doesn't want to face with the motions to amend the law in which we're going to seek responsibility for this kind of thing in the judiciary. But it's just those who are today's advocates of it who want this condition to affect the judiciary. And one more thing, I'm saddened to hear about the Constitutional Court, you mention, the mustaches, the pots of a mustache in a way that you speak of the Constitutional Court as a regular court. For Bog's sake, the Constitutional Court is a political court and if there are countries in the environment in... you can know that at these positions the Constitutional Court judge is appointed to someone other than the holder of an executive, legislative and judicial institution. Let me remind you in the Republic of Croatia where Ingrid Antičević, who she is, is a representative directly from the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Leko, does not matter which political option she belongs to. You can't even choose judges from legal professions who work here for 15 years, who make decisions, because it's a political court. And there's no dilemma, what's the conflict of interest that someone proposes someone who was once a member of that party. Does it mean that someone more moral than you sitting here, or am I the only one immoral just because I belong to HDZ? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14761	Thank you. I'm closing the debate, Mrs. Majkić. This is your third application, so you don't have the right to do it. We're going to the 17th item of the agenda, Ad. 17. Report on the establishment of a proposal for candidates for the appointment of one representative of the academic community in the Commission for the selection and monitoring of the work of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of Combating Corruption, materials of the Interim Joint Commission of both homes of the PSBiH for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of one representative of the academic community in the Commission for the selection and monitoring of the work of the Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency against Corruption, No: 01.02-374-1963/16, since 19.07.2016 The proposed candidate for the appointment of a representative of the academic community for a member of the Commission to elect and monitor the work of the Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency is Vojo Višekruna. I'm opening a debate. There's no record of a hearing. We're going to the 18th point of the agenda, Ad. 18. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interresor Working Group – Proposer: Joint College of both PSBiH homes, issue: 01,02-34-1-1982/16, since 20.07.2016
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14765	Just a quick question – are there any political parties other than what is being formed? It really turns out to be degutant towards the outside, not anymore, here Parliament is not executive authority, in Parliament all MPs, all MPs are equal. Is it possible that none of these MPs could still be in one of the bodies? If that's impossible, so tell us, there's no need for us to sit here. It's funny that we're taking your time, it's funny that we're even taking time with our stories, our discussions. Why do you usurp so much, so is it just so important that you're on all committees, on all committees, is it so important that you have to hang everything up? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14766	Thank you. Hanka Vajzović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14767	Thank you, Your Honor. I just wanted to briefly remind you that we choose this commission, in fact, to elect members of the Management Board of the Higher Education and Quality Insurance Agency, or we have about last June, to be corrected by someone else. A little while, we're choosing a commission like this that chooses board members, it's 10 members, and I guess this is one 64 of the agencies that I'd be waiting for, what I've had for today's parliamentary question and the initiative is about reviewing the justification of the existence of this agency, and I don't even know what it is, how many agencies it is, here we are, and how much we choose the commissions I'm assuming, I don't know if they're paying, they don't pay, but we always have a commission that chooses the board. Of course, there's also a case of Poplašen and everything else that's been going on. Whether to choose her more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14768	Thank you. A piece of the wrong quote, Damir Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14769	I was just hasty to remind my esteemed colleague Vajzović that some things are going on because parties like the DF choose to vote for Nikola Poplašen and then go back to the beginning. But here, this time we'll do better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14770	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on the 19th agenda. We're going to the 20th point, Ad. 20. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia on co-operation in the field of the fight against crime, materials of the BiH Presidency, issue: 01,02-05-2-1974/16, since 20.07.2016 You have received the opinion of the Commission in charge of external affairs. I'm opening a debate. Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14772	So, I would like to speak as a member of the Commission, not as chair, but as a member of the Commission. My proposal is to, uh, not give consent to ratify this Agreement for the reason it is stated that it is sought for its signing due to the concern of the growth of the crime rate between the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. No analysis has ever been done that would say so. So, it's a flat-rate rating that someone, here in this case, Minister Mektić has accepted as such. Secondly, the Ministry of Security has no operational jurisdiction over police affairs in Bosnia and Herzegovina, nor is it responsible for police institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, although they are as an administrative organisation in its composition. There are a few other things that are related to the inability to fulfil the obligations under this contract signed by the minister. Accordingly, in order not to cause unnecessary trouble and where we should not, because by signing the Agreement with the Kingdom of saudijski Arabija, it is more like a gesture of strengthening friendly ties than a real 65 need for a concerted fight against crime, I suggest not to give consent to the ratification of this Agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14773	Thank you. This concludes the debate. 15 minutes to the vote. Here, so make it 5:15, 20 minutes. Please take your seats to begin the vote. We're opening the voting process. First item – The adoption of the minutes from the 33rd session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. We're voting on the adoption of the record. For 34, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Point 4. – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Basicity of Traffic on Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02-02-133/15, since 25/01/2016 (first reading). We're voting on the bill's proposal in the first reading. For 27, v. 2, abstention 6. There's also the general majority and entity majority, we adopted the bill's proposal in the first reading. We are now voting on the adoption of the conclusion of the Transport and Communications Commission. For 30, abstentions, five, no. There is a general and entity majority we adopted the conclusion of the Transport and Communications Commission. Point 5. – Proposal for a law on providing free legal assistance – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02-02-1-1-1789/16, since 28.06.2016 (first reading). For 27, v. 2, abstention 6. There's a general and entity majority, and we passed the bill in the first reading. Point 6. – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Debt, Debt and Guarantees of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-1510/16, since 13.07.2016 (first reading). We're voting on the bill's proposal in the first reading. For 26, v. 2, abstentions 7. There's a general and entity majority, and we passed the bill. 66 Point 7. – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MP Damir Arnaut, Law No: 01-02-1-1950/16, since 18.07.2016 (first reading). For 23, v. 1, abstention 12. There's a general majority, an entity majority doesn't exist. [[/consultations in the College.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14778	Names, names you didn't say, we chose you and you just say it in the microphone...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-01-0.u14779	So Nenad Lalić, Mirsad Đonlagić, Predrag Kožul, Safet Softić, Ognjen Tadić and Zdenka Džambas were elected. Let's go to point 20. – Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia on co-operation in the field of the fight against crime, materials of the BiH Presidency, issue: 01,02-05-2-1974/16, since 20.07.2016. We're voting on giving consent to ratification. For 34, against 3 abstentions. There is a general and entity majority agreed to ratify the Agreement. I'm closing the 34th session of the House of Representatives. The next session is scheduled for 31 August 2016. Thank you. Session completed at 5:40 p.m.
