ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Honourable Members, I present to your attention the National Assembly's Work Programme in the period 17 June 2020: "1." First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Gambling Act. Importers - Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs, 4 June 2020; Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs, 5 June 2020. 2. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act. Importers.. Valentin Nikolov and a group of MPs, 29 May 2020. Adopted in the first vote on 3 June 2020. 3. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Offering of Securities. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 27 May 2020 4. Draft decision on the adoption of the Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for the proposal of the President and members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, outside the elected members pursuant to § 41 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act (promise, SG No. No. 17 of 2015, Dop., No. 48 from 2015), presentation, public disclosure of documents and hearing in the Energy Committee, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly. Importer supplier of the Energy Commission, 10 June 2020 Point 1 for Thursday, 18 June 2020 5. Parliamentary control comprising: 5.1. Debates on questions from the MPs Georgi Yordanov, Georgi Mihailov, Ilian Timchev, Desislav Taskov, Valentina Naydenova, Ivan Ibrishimov and Anna Slavova to the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a strategy for improving the working conditions and financial compensation for the Bulgarian medics. 5.2. Answer to a question by the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev "Thursday, 18 June 2020, after the end of this article. 5.1. 6. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Plant Protection Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 12 June 2020 Point 1 for Friday, 19 June 2020 7. Parliamentary Control "Friday, 19 June 2020" Please vote on the draft programme so submitted. They voted 177 MPs: 130, none, abstention 47. The motion is accepted. Bills and draft decisions for the period 10 June 2020: Bill for the annulment of the Social Services Act. Importers Desislaw Chukolov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the lead. Draft decision on the adoption of the Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for the proposal of the President and members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, outside the elected members pursuant to § 41 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act (promise, SG No. No. 17 of 2015, Dop., No. 48 from 2015), presentation, public disclosure of documents and hearing in the Energy Committee, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly. Importer of the Energy Commission. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Plant Protection Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Agriculture and Food is the lead. It has been allocated to the Committee on Environment and Water and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. A bill to ratify the Second Additional Protocol to the Universal Postal Convention of the Third Emergency Congress of the Universal Postal Union. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications is the lead. Mrs. Ninova, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u2	Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I'm making a procedure for Mr. Emil Dimitrov to be called to a hearing at the Minister of Environment and Leading Mr. Emil Dimitrov. Our motives for this are as follows: It is the duty of the state to guarantee the Bulgarian people clean water, clean air, food and land. [[Applause from DPS.]] The topic of nature conservation and environmental standards is one of the most important today. In recent years there have been dozens of cases of unregulated dumps in Bulgaria, where illegally piled junk from all over the world. In Haskovo and in many other cities water has been dangerous to people's health for years! Air pollution in large cities is above acceptable standards in times, and in recent days a clear example of illegalness and impunity is what happened in Varna and at the construction in Aleppu. In Varna, 5 million were poured out. EUR and tons of fecal waters.. No one is responsible for this. It is time for these issues to meet decisive measures by the state. Instead, yesterday the minister said it would not be an ecological bat! Dear Minister, obeying the laws of the country and exercising control over their execution is not a bat, but your first and irrevocable obligation! The Minister sent us to ask the investor what his intentions were and what he was doing to Aleppu. No, Mr. Minister, we shouldn't ask the person who is doing it, but the one who has allowed him out of the law and who is closing his eyes to this day for control of this building. Therefore, Madam President, on behalf of the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria, we would like you to call the Minister today and listen to him on these issues. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u3	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. You know what it's like to enter a proposal, I'll put it to the vote and we'll invite the minister if you want a hearing procedure. Otherwise, the procedure is to provide information. Colleagues, we're moving on to point one: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE COUNTERPARTY LAWS FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE HAZARD LAW. With the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance, Mrs. Angelova will introduce us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Before the report, I request a procedure for admission in the hall of Rositsa Velkova, Deputy Minister of Finance, and Ludmila Petkova, Director of the Department of Tax Policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u5	Please vote on the procedure so made. Vote 157 MPs: 153, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Mrs. Angelova, would you like to introduce us to the report?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u6	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Gambling Act, No 054-01-50, submitted by Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs on 4 June 2020, and a Bill amending and supplementing the Gambling Act, No 054-01-51, submitted by Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs on 5 June 2020. At a meeting held on 11 June 2020, the Budget and Finance Committee discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Gambling Act, No 054-01-50, submitted by Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs on 4 June 2020, and a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Gambling Act, No 054-01-51, submitted by Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs on 5 June 2020. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Finance: Mrs. Rositsa Velkova Deputy Minister, and Mrs. Ludmila Petkova Director of the Department of Tax Policy and by the State Commission on Gambling: Mr. Georgi Yordanov Chairman; by the State Enterprise Bulgarian Sports Totalist: Mr. Lyubomir Petrov Executive Director and representatives of NGOs and associations. The drafts received opinions from the Ministry of Finance, the State Gaming Association, representatives of the independent cultural sector, the Bulgarian Association for Entertainment and Gaming Games, 21 and the Association of Gamblers and Activities in Bulgaria. On behalf of the importers, a bill amending and supplementing the Gambling Act, No 054-01-50, was presented by Mr. Valeri Simeonov. He said that the submitted bill proposed amendments and additions to the current Law on Gambling, which continue the philosophy and principles of the last amendments to the Law adopted by the National Assembly (No. 14 of 18 February 2020) in order to limit gambling dependence and improve the regulatory framework. As the next stage in the fight against gambling addiction is offered gambling in casinos and gambling halls to be able to be organized only in five-star hotels, in the national resort complexes and settlements according to the application of the Law ( St. Konstantin and Elena,........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... All other casinos and gaming halls, outside those mentioned, will continue to operate until 2025. An improved version of the provisions on fees for gambling activities under art. 30 of the Law. The same are described in detail and the different sizes are defined in separate texts. The People's Representative Menda Stoyanova presented the reasons of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Gambling Act, No 054-01-51. The bill provides for a change in the form and organisation of the gambling regulator in the Republic of Bulgaria, namely the State Gambling Commission to be reorganized at the State Gambling Agency. The newly established agency will be a specialized state body of the Council of Ministers, which will implement state policy in the field of gambling and supervise gambling and related activities. The draft proposes to replace the currently existing partially fragmented regulatory authority legislation with a more detailed and clear regulation of its structure, functions and activities. The bill corrects some of the shortcomings and imperfections of the legal framework of gambling activities established by practice. First of all, the creation of a new para is envisaged. 4 of art. 5 of the Gambling Act, which will specify the cases where investments and means of organizing the game should not be proven by the organizers who have already proven it once. Next, a change of the current provision of art. 10a of the Gambling Act, which regulates contributions to socially responsible behavior. The proposal adds that such a contribution will be due for each licence issued. Measures and procedure for the protection of persons vulnerable to gambling activities in art. 10b to 10f. It is envisaged the possibility of voluntary self-limiting from gambling by individuals who have judged for themselves that this activity harms them. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 14 is proposed to extend the scope of gambling which can be organised by the State enterprise "Bulgarian Sports Totalizer" and provides the State enterprise with the opportunity to organize besides traditional lottery, number lottery games, momentary lottery, betting on results of sports competitions and racing with horses and dogs, also betting on random events, betting related to knowledge of facts and games online in a gambling casino. With regard to the early termination of a licence listed in art. 35, para. 1, t. 4 of the Gambling Act is added a new para. 2 which will regulate a ban on the submission of a request for early termination in cases where there is a forced administrative measure imposed on the organizer under art. 86 of the Law. In order to carry out wider and more massive control over the activities of gambling operators, the project provides for powers to carry out control activities under the Gambling Act to also have control bodies of the National Revenue Agency with a view to the use of the significant personnel and expertise of the NRA. In relation to the envisaged amendments and additions to the Gambling Act, some changes to the provisions of other laws should be made, the most important is in the Law on Corporate Income Tax, where the provision of art. 219, para. 4 which concerns the tax payable on auxiliary and ancillary activities within the meaning of the Gambling Act. This rule should be repealed as the transitional and final provisions of the proposed law provide for the repeal of § 1, item 1. 16 of the Additional provision of the current Gambling Act, which concerns the definition of aided and ancillary activities. The need for this annulment is based on the fact that the current Gambling Act does not mention any of the aid and support activities and, at the same time, there is a definition of them in the additional provision. It concerns a provision which does not find real application in the application of the Gambling Act, which in turn leads to the need for its annulment. The discussion was attended by the MPs Rumen Gechev, Nikolay Tishev, Christian Mitev, Valeri Simeonov, Nikolay Alexandrov and Menda Stoyanova. As a result of the discussion, the Committee on Budget and Finance with 5 votes in favour, without abstention and 12, suggests that the National Assembly should not adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Gambling Act, No 054-01-50, submitted by Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs on 4 June 2020. With 11 votes in favour, 6 against and without abstention, he proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill for amendment and supplement of the Gambling Act, No 054-01-51, submitted by Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs on 5 June 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u7	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. With the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports Report, who will introduce us? Mr. Atanasov, please give us the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u8	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe on the proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law of Gambling by Mr. Simeonov and a group of MPs The Committee on Children, Youth and Sports at a regular meeting held on 10 June 2020, discussed and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Gambling Act, No 054-01-50, submitted by Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs on 4 June 2020. The meeting was attended by Mr. Asen Markov, Secretary General of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, and representatives of the Bulgarian Sports and Public Procurement Company, Mr. Lyubomir Petrov, Executive Director, Mrs. Rada Gonova, Director of Legal and Public Procurement Directorate and Mr. Borislav Montenegro. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the National Representative Valeri Simeonov, who pointed out that the submitted bill proposes amendments and additions that continue the philosophy and principles of the last amendments to the Law adopted by the National Assembly in order to limit gambling dependence and improve the regulatory framework. The importers propose that gaming halls and casinos where gambling is organised should be located only in five-star hotels in the national resort complexes and settlements according to an application to the Law, as well as in a territory not more than 20 km from the road, railway, sea and river border crossing points. All other casinos and gaming halls located in places outside those mentioned in the Bill will have the opportunity to restructure their activities by 2025. The bill also proposes an amendment of the provisions for the fees for gambling activities under art. 30 of the Law in order to refine the texts. In the subsequent discussion took part the MPs Ivan Chenchev and Slavcho Atanasov. As a result of the discussion and on the basis of the vote held with 2 votes for... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u9	Colleagues, please, it's too loud!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u10	...without abstention 16 votes The Committee on Children, Youth and Sports suggests that the National Assembly should not support a bill for amendment and supplement of the Gambling Act, No 054-01-50, submitted by Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs on 4 June 2020. The first vote. And another report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u11	And the second report, yes, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u12	On 10 June 2020, the Commissioner for Children, Youth and Sports at a regular meeting held on 10 June 2020 discussed and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Gambling Act, No 054-01-51, submitted by Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova and a group of MPs on 5 June 2020. The meeting was attended by Mr. Asen Markov, Secretary General of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, Mr. Lyubomir Petrov, Executive Director, Mrs. Rada Gonova, Director of Legal and Public Procurement Directorate, and Mr. Borislav Chernev, Financial Director at the State Enterprise. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the National Representative Alexander Matsurev. In the part of the Bill which falls within the Commission's competence, protection measures are proposed, which include warnings of the danger of gambling addiction placed on gambling sites and on certification signs of participation in gambling activities. The bill also provides for the possibility of voluntary self-limiting from gambling by individuals who have judged for themselves that this activity harms them. They will have the right to declare to the Agency a wish not to be allowed to sites where gambling is organised. Those persons will be included in a register and the gambling organizers will be obliged not to allow the persons from the register to the relevant sites. The protection measures also include notification to the participants of the possibility to restrict themselves through the procedure under the Law of participation in gambling. Another change proposed by the importer is the extension of the scope of gambling in art. 14, which can be organized by a state enterprise "Bulgarian Sports Totalizer" by giving him the opportunity to organize additional betting on random events, betting related to knowledge of facts, and games online in a gambling casino. According to the importer, this will increase the revenues of the state gambling operator, which will provide a greater financial resource for physical education and sport. In order to carry out wider and more massive control over the activities of gambling operators, the project provides for powers to carry out control activities under the Gambling Act to also have control bodies of the National Revenue Agency. The changes aim at wider, more regular and more detailed control over gambling activities for compliance with regulations and guaranteeing the rights and legitimate interests of the organizers of gambling and activities. Under the Law amending and supplementing the Gambling Act in the Commission, opinions have been received from the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Youth and Sports, the State Agency for Child Protection, the Bulgarian Sports Analyst, the Bulgarian Trade Association of Producers and Organizers of the Gaming Industry and the Bulgarian Gaming Association. They all support the bill so presented. As a result of the discussion and on the basis of the 9-vote vote held, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Gambling Act, No 054-01-51, submitted by Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova and a group of MPs on 5 June 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. We move on to the next Report of the Committee on Culture and Media. You're welcome to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u14	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a bill amending and supplementing the Gambling Act, No 054-01-51, submitted by Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs on 5 June 2020. At a regular meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media, held on 11 June 2020, a Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Gambling Act was discussed, No 054-01-51, submitted by Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs on 5 June 2020. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Culture: Rumen Dimitrov Deputy Minister, and Vesela Shterevska Secretary. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Alexander Ivanov. The bill regulates a change in the form and organization of the gambling regulator in Bulgaria, with the State Gambling Commission being reorganized at the State Gambling Agency. The aim is to bring clarity to the status of the gambling regulator and ensure transparency in its activities. It shall be transferred from a college authority to a single body in order to ensure speed in the civil proceedings and personalisation of liability in order to make lawful decisions. The State-owned enterprise is given the opportunity to organize online gambling games and, in particular, an online casino that will lead to higher national income in the country. We owe taxes under the Corporate Income Tax Act and state taxes under the Gambling Act from organised gambling to be included in the budget. § 63 of the Law proposes the removal of § 32 of the Transitional and Final Provisions to the Law amending and supplementing the Gambling Act, which envisions in the budget of the Ministry of Culture the annual transfer of a target subsidy to the National Fund of Culture, amounting to 10 per cent of the state fee paid in the previous year under art. 30, para. 3 and the variable part of para. 4. In addition, § 72 proposes to waive the texts of the Law on Mescentage, which regulate the possibility for the State to organise the cultural support lot. The discussion on the draft took part in the discussion on the Law: Vecdi Rashidov, Krasimir Velchev, Ivan Chenchev, Velislava Krasteva, Todor Baychev, Lachezar Ivanov, Nona Yotova, Anastas Popdimitrov. The President of the Commission Vejdi Rashidov recalled that the proposal in the aforementioned § 32 was made by him in the 42nd National Assembly and received support from MPs from GERB, BSP and DPS. He also noted that he would propose a legislative change in support of culture by means of gambling activities. Ivan Chenchev, on behalf of the members of the Commission from the BSP for Bulgaria, pointed out that in a number of countries from Europe, funds for cultural projects, mecenat programs for art development and cultural organizations are supported by gambling. He said that with regard to the bill they would vote abstention and make proposals after the first vote. Velislava Krasteva said she joins the idea of searching for working tools to provide funding by way of acquittals to the sector. Following a vote, MPs from the Committee on Culture and Media with 8 votes for the Committee on Culture and Media with 7 votes for the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Gambling Act, No 054-01-51, submitted by Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs on 5 June 2020, submitted by Daniela Daritkova. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u15	Thank you, dear Mrs. Peeva. This was the last report on the two bills. Now they have the opportunity to present the bills. Do they have a wish? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u16	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The submitted bill proposes amendments and additions to the Gambling Act, which continue the philosophy and principles of the last amendments adopted by the National Assembly in order to limit gambling dependence and improve the regulatory framework. Gambling dependence is an example of a process or behavioral dependence that differs from drug-related addictions such as tobacco, alcohol, food, drugs. Behavioral dependence comes from a series of actions, behavioral actions. In gambling addiction euphoria comes from the social atmosphere or group that gathers in the casino, and also the excitement comes from taking risks. People with gambling addiction engage in different types of gambling or activities, the most common are so-called games of luck or happiness, slot machines, roulette, cards. Gambling addiction develops slowly over time. People can start with acceptable social and entertainment betting and gradually become addicted until they develop pathological disorder. In most cases, dependence develops in a few years, although there are cases when people have gambled for 10 years, controlled and under the influence of great stress such as divorce or loss of work, develop pathological gambling disorder. Pathological disorder is characterized by uncontrolled betting, outside any limit of socially acceptable or entertainment activity, so it has serious consequences for the person and the life of the better. People who suffer from gambling addiction can lose all their savings, get involved in murder crimes, suicides, thefts, robberies, check counterfeiting, embezzlement, money-related abuses to get the money they need for their habit. Many significant relationships and work can be lost as a result of this gambling addiction. Therefore, as a next stage in the fight against gambling addiction we offer gambling in casinos and gaming halls to be able to organize only in five-star hotels, in national resort complexes and settlements according to an application to the Law and not more than 20 km from the road, railway, sea and river border crossing points. All other casinos and gaming halls, outside those mentioned, will continue to operate until 2025. The positive aspects of the phased limitation of the activity of gambling operators to those sites for 5 years are as follows: smooth cessation of activity and loss of revenue for the state budget, the lack of legal claims to the Republic of Bulgaria for reimbursement of the costs of investments made and damage caused by the state, the gamblers would more smoothly overcome their dependence by minimizing the possibility of illegal gambling. The proposals in this project take into account the caselaw of the Court of Justice of the European Union that restrictions on gambling are permissible. Such restrictions do not violate the European Convention on Human Rights as they are in the public interest. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u17	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. We will proceed to a discussion if the importers from GERB do not want to present a bill? No. I'm opening the bill discussion. Here you go, Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u18	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm gonna go with the amendment to the 10 percent law on culture that was supposed to go from gambling. Five years ago, I was the importer of this bill and I was very pleased because we all voted both BSP and GERB and the other parliamentary groups, there was a good consensus on this issue. At the time, my argument was that at the Ministry of the Ministry of Culture there was a small amount of money, because there was no money, from the Ministry's budget. The "City" fund represented and represented a fund that serves primarily to assist beginners young debuting authors with the ability of their performance and to realize their talent. It is no secret, we all know that whatever we say, the budget of culture is very insufficient. In discussing this law in the Committee on Culture for the 10 percent culture, we concluded that for five years this did not work, for some reason why I cannot answer, but we decided to drop out in the Committee on Culture for now and between first and second readings to re-submit a better version together with the Legal Commission and Mrs Stoyanova's Commission, to make again a proposal for a real deduction of 10% to go to the Fund of Culture, but to be able to do so and to rely again, of course, on consensus. Because I told colleagues in the Commission that this is very important for Bulgarian artists, because neither the BSP would suffer from this if we did not accept and vote on the Law nor the others. Only Bulgarian artists would suffer if this help did not go to them. Therefore, I deeply hope that, between first and second readings, I will re-enter clear texts. I deeply hope that this time these funds will reach the Bulgarian culture. Of course, I would be very happy if we could come up with a common consensus on this 10% issue. Thank you. That's it!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Rashidov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u20	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I take the floor for a speech on the project submitted by colleagues from GERB to say in the very beginning that this will be an unsuccessful attempt to mislead the Bulgarian Parliament. Experts who have prepared these motives for you, knowingly or not, have misled you, honourable Members. The facts are as follows! Firstly, the reason for considering the new bill is that the Law adopted by this Parliament here in this building on 5 December 2014 has not been implemented for more than five years! On 5 December 2014, in Parliament, we decided and obliged the Council of Ministers in § 16 of the Final Provisions by 28 February 2015 to present a concept for the development of the gambling sector and a new bill. Today we are 17 June 2020 and the decision of the Bulgarian Parliament, contrary to the Constitution and the Law, is not implemented by the Council of Ministers, which is obliged in this § 16. And now, instead of fixing this mistake, they're putting us in some legal anti-European swamp. As we love the facts, I quote the motives of colleagues from GERB: The proposed change in the structure of the regulatory body is in sync with the world and with the European practices. The legal analysis shows that, in most countries worldwide, gambling regulation is carried out not by a college body such as the Commission, but by a single body because of the need for operationality in view of the dynamics of the gambling sector. Among the countries in which the regulatory authority is single, I keep quoting! They are: Denmark, France, Germany, Gibraltar, I open a clamp, here the importers have missed the geography lessons, Gibraltar is not a country, this beautiful rock is part of the territory of the UK, but this is a small issue. In a significantly smaller number of countries, including Belgium, Great Britain and Spain, have preferred the model of decision-making by a college body. Dear colleagues, our comparative analysis of the laws of the Member States of the European Union shows the opposite! There is no member state of the European Union where there is some gambling king appointed by anyone to manage gambling! And how do they manage in Denmark that you say they do? Ministry of Tax Administration, which means Ministry of Tax. In Germany, gambling decisions are taken by the interior ministers of the 16 provinces of the Federal Republic of Germany; in Austria, the Ministry of Finance; in Belgium, the Ministry of Economy. In order not to list 27 countries, I will tell you that the Ministry of Finance directly manages and controls gambling in Austria, Croatia, Estonia, Hungary, Lithuania, Poland, Slovenia, Italy, the Czech Republic and Sweden. In Belgium, gambling is regulated and the body is the Ministry of Economy; the Ministry of Interior in Germany, Denmark and Finland; the Ministry of Justice in Ireland and in the Netherlands. As gambling brings great income, I will tell you that this collective body, which you say is sole, in France how it is and you will be surprised there the choice of the collective management body is like the management of the National Bank of France. Since there are seven people, they have a six-year term of office and two other people are appointed by the President of the Republic of France, two people are appointed on a proposal from the Chair of the Lower Chamber of Commerce.. The National Assembly, and two people are on a proposal from the spokesperson, the President of the Senate of France. What one-sided power? Where did you read these materials? Are you joking with the Bulgarian Parliament?! There is no such king of gambling as you suggest! This is unique! So so far there are five people: the NRA, the Ministry of Finance, the DANS is inside, the Department of Justice, and they're gone 700 million!? You will now make it easier for the corrupters to put on just one person who will be some kind of alien!? And there is no king of gambling in Africa who will rule! How is that possible? What an insolence in Parliament to give us examples in an absolute lie of European practice! In addition, pay attention to other extremely strange things from these three pages with motives, here, honourable Members, there are no numbers. As long as we comment on just one sentence of this project. I quote, on the last page, this is shocking already, writes: The proposed changes to the draft act will not lead to an impact on the state budget. Very interesting. So, we're on duty now, the law is changing it by some rules outside the Milky Way, resulting in no budget changes. Which means what? First of all, this is a meaningless operation. And second of all, uh-huh, what do the importers mean? If there will be no budget changes, will the next 700 million be stolen again? Have a nice day. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Gechev. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Svilensky. And if anyone else doesn't want to, then Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I will again ask where is the Minister of Finance when we look at the Gambling Act? Because this guy, the same finance minister, didn't comply with the law for five years? Five years even the proposal, which has now been made to change the Law on Gambling, has not been made by him, but has been made by colleagues from GERB. Where is Mr. Goranov to answer why five years § 32 of the Gambling Act is not implemented? I asked him a question 2016, before that 2015, and he keeps telling me that the question will be resolved, he needs a new Gambling Act. Where's the new Gambling Act? I see there are representatives of the Ministry of Finance here... Where's the new Gambling Act, Mr. Goranov? Or someone has to earn $700 million, and you have to stay somewhere, watch us now, and maybe make fun of us. Why would culture be deprived of 10%? It was a contradiction between the Public Finance Act and the Gambling Act. But you're the one who's taking these laws, aren't you? Didn't they offer us the Council of Ministers? Do they not have the capacity to judge that when they propose one law, it is contrary to another law? Or here the MPs give, vote to deceive the people of culture that there will be 10% and then five years will not abide by this law? Then five years we won't raise 700 million so that our rulers can live well. That's not gonna happen! My question at the moment is: where is the Minister of Finance? Where's the 10% culture rate? Instead of looking for a solution to cultural problems, instead of looking for a solution to finance this sector, we are doing the easiest thing to say that this is contrary to another law. Well, why didn't you change the Public Finance Act to contradict it and change the Gambling Act where 10% should be given? Because 10 percent for culture is better to go in correspondence between the 60 million probably. By the way, it is exactly 10% of the 700 million uncollected money that has moved somewhere between Moskovska and probably some party plant. Colleagues, I urge you not to accept the proposal of colleagues from GERB. By the way, I don't see Mrs. Daritkova, who's importing the Bill. In other words, who protects GERB's Bill? Now perhaps Mr. Ivanov will be brought up here, he has no fault at all for what happened 2015 - 2016, and now he will have to defend them as Matrosov. Mr. Ivanov, don't try, it doesn't make sense. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Maybe alternate groups. If you don't mind, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In 2014, Vejdi Rashidov proposed and supported his proposal for a change in the Gambling Act, which was expressed in § 32 of the Transitional and Final Provisions, which entered into force from 1 January 2014, namely in the budget of the Ministry of Culture to transfer annually a target subsidy to the National Fund of Culture, amounting to 10% of the state fee paid in the previous year under art. 30, para. 3 and the variable part by para. 4. Then many of our country's culturtreggers gratefully took a breath in anticipation of this truly vibrant breath of air, such as years before and now maintains the sport in our country. Alas, with the next budget, the artists remained unpleasantly surprised that this did not happen. By the way, this also did not happen in the budgets of 2016 and 2017 and 2018 and 2019 and 2020. Unfunctioning remained the texts in the Gambling Act adopted in 2014, providing for discounts from online and offline fees for the Ministry of Culture, because no specific mechanisms and regulations for their implementation were developed from the two ministries to ensure that gambling is charged for the benefit of Bulgarian culture. It has long been known that the state budget leaves every year underfunded both the 12 programmes of the National Fund of Culture and the transfer subsidies in all other sectors under the leadership of the Ministry of Culture, the field excavations in the section of the Cultural and Historical Heritage and the preservation of the real monuments of our heritage. The lack of sufficient resources for the sustainable development of the cultural sector in Bulgaria has also been demonstrated, supporting fine art, cinema, talent development and the support of high creative events in professional and amateur creativity. The Fund itself has 15 identified possible sources for fundraising, but as we know, so far this is done only through the state budget. All the more reason to hope during these six years that the proposals recorded in the Gambling Act will eventually work and the two ministries will do what is necessary to implement the promised additional options, because this is also written in GERB's Management Program, and we would like to recall Objective 134 of it, namely the actual implementation of the provision of the Gambling Act of 10% for the National Fund of Culture. To this end, they follow: Measure 512. "Development of projects of the Law for Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Gambling and ZID of the Law on Protection and Development of Culture"........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Culture does have a critical need for alternative sources that provide real, substantial and stable funding. We hoped that, although Mr. Rashidov proposed so far and adopted in the Law on Gambling and the Law on Mescentage did not work, they would eventually work, but the imported ZID of the Law on Gambling finally burned our hopes. The proposed changes will harm the perspective for the development of Bulgarian culture and the ideas for its approach to the pan-European context. We also demand a concrete workout to become operational in the future. Moreover, we are now being offered state control over revenue and expenditure. As a comparison, we could point to the positive experience in 24 European countries, such as England, Ireland, Belgium, the Netherlands, Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Romania and Italy, where, by way of taxing from gambling, private or state-organised, the games of luck, Art lottos, national and regional lotteries, support funds for cultural projects and mecenatic programmes for the development of arts and cultural processes. In Finland, for example, even these funds are measured by almost 40% of the profits of such activities, such as lotteries and other games of luck, in favor of the development of arts and culture in the country. We accept that the final opinion of the Ministry of Culture on the proposed ZID is a hand in joint action in the direction of recognition of emergency aid for culture to understand that despite the recognized values they create, Bulgarian artists can hardly develop a purely market approach. In this regard, the Ministry proposes to seek new or to improve existing legal mechanisms to assist cultural organisations. Therefore, between first and second readings, we will make our proposals in the hope that you will support them, which will allow the achievement of an investment model for the development of Bulgarian culture with the possibility of ensuring sustainability in the development of the sector. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Chenchev. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? I don't see any other speeches. Here you go. I've seen that you've been going for a long time, but somehow you didn't raise your hand. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u26	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! It is very focused today on changing the form of management by a committee to become an agency, it is also focused on the 10 percent that should go for culture, and I think it is rightly focused on them. One part of what Dr Daritkova proposed and a group of MPs, namely our proposal, highlighted two quite important things for me that have been missed in the debate so far. One of them, colleagues, is a fine-tuning of the contribution to socially responsible behaviour, which is issued to a licensed operator. Now, in our proposal, colleagues, it is written to your attention to offer to collect for each license issued, which will certainly lead to more money to enter the Ministry of Sports for programs aimed at children. The other, fellow Members, which escapes your attention, although some have mentioned me from this tribune, was nice to really get acquainted with our whole proposal and look at the change we offer and the opportunities we give the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer to develop. Colleagues, we are missing out on a very important thing - one third of the revenues from the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer, which last year, if I am not mistaken, were about 180 million, this year 60 million more are expected to take place in the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer than the organized by him, one third of these funds go to the Ministry of Sports to develop children, young talents, go to schools and sports, so to say, facilities and construction, go to the Bulgarian Federations, go to prepare Bulgarian contestants for European, world and Olympic Games. And I think that accent here, colleagues, you missed it. For me the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer has its function, which we must support. It is in our proposal for me that this is precisely what we are asking about the development and technological opportunities and innovations that we are giving to the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer, because in the private sector they have obviously made quite good use of so far in the future, and all the full range of innovations, electronic, online, if you want, have been used, while the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer has had a little restriction, which we want to remove. Because, again, colleagues, one third of the proceeds from the organized games from the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer go to sports, young people and culture, which we need to wake up once again in young people, namely to strive to achieve high results thanks to the investments we will make in the Ministry of Sports. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Let me remind you that we are discussing two bills. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u28	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! If I'm not mistaken, this morning we made a kind invitation to the Minister of Environment and Water to appear here and explain his, to say the least, scandalous behavior. We want to show up here, in this room, in the next few minutes, hours to hear from the stand why you expressed such opinions, which are contrary to the expectations of Bulgarian citizens, to the expectations of the MPs. He owes an explanation to the MPs, so once again I ask you to look for Mr. Emil Dimitrov to come here and explain his behavior, which is, to say the least, scandalous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. We'll see if the invitation is made and what the minister's response is. We are continuing the debate on both laws. Here you go, Mr. Baichev. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u30	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! As I can see, the two bills have aroused a lot of controversy in society, but none in plenary. The other thing that makes sense to me is that there's only one of the bills that we're talking about, and there's two of them. There's a commonality between them, but there's a difference. I will start with what is common between the two laws, namely that both laws are equally unacceptable to society given the nature of the matter being examined. Also, the two bills equally shyly avoid taxation as it is in the world and in Europe, I would say, as we proudly thump in the chest that we are members of the European Union, but here is the time to say that the tax on gambling, lotto and lotto games is what individuals in the European Union are subject to. The other thing in common is that advertising is avoided, which is both in the European Union and everywhere the world's advertising is limited and strictly regulated, while our advertising continues to be widely advertised. Even the two new bills foresee an expansion of the activities of the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer. The next common among them is namely the expansion of the activity of the Sports Totalizer, of the Lotto and Lotto Games, of gambling. And here I can think of how it was said from this tribune that this is a vice that must be limited. On the one hand, we want to limit this vice, on the other hand, the state will already propose it, and even, I would say, in an expanded version. The version offered to colleagues from GERB includes horse racing, hound racing, random events and similar gambling. Here I would also like to add that both bills do not make a very important difference between traditional lottery, lotto and lotto games and gambling. There should be a rate of taxation of this kind of games here, because in Europe and around the world, to the highest extent and with the highest tax, gambling is taxed. Taxation in France reaches 50%, and in Korea and Japan up to 70%. I'm not going to comment on how modest it is. I would also like to add, here I will now make a slight distinction and I will enter into the two laws of the Law of the United Patriarchs and offer gambling games in general and such games to be offered in the five-star hotels, in the 20km border zone and in the national resorts. This, on the one hand, will lead to the bloom of illegal business and illegal betting and games inside the country, will also lead to a disproportion in the regional development of the country, as there are now poor regions, poor regions, but there are also resort settlements where there are hotels, but there will not be offered this kind, let's call it entertainment. I will also move on to the shortcomings of the GERB Bill, as it was said that too much attention is paid to the fact that there is talk about culture. I would like to say that in the GERB project, which offers registration of the so-called vulnerable first, colleagues, you have aligned people with addictions to minors, which I think is purely legally wrong. On the other hand, in this register everyone will have to go himself and register. Here I will give you an example of Singapore, where such registration also exists. In Singapore, which is in a kind of ranking of nations that are dependent on gambling, in second place, there are only 935 registered. It's allowed, except that you can register yourself, maybe a family member can go and file information for you that you're a gambling addict. And yet every year there are about 1200 violations of those who are addicted and continue to play. That is why the Singapore government has made another decision, namely that the $81 fee has been introduced, which is paid by those willing to play. Another thing that also impresses me, which I do not pay attention to. There has been a survey of Bloomberg since 2018, where research has found the following: people with lower incomes play more and spend more money than people with higher incomes. For the United States, people with incomes up to 10,000. The dollar, that is, the poorest, spend 30% more of their income than those who have an income of up to 50 thousand. The dollar. Next, I would also like to say, because the subject of culture has been raised. From this tribune was very often used the term that the nation through these games is simple. Okay, colleagues, but if the nation is being simplified through the games, with the expansion of the games, with the creation of opportunities for richer access to such games, how exactly will the common level of culture in the nation be raised? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u31	Thank you, dear Mr. Baichev. - What's the line? Here's a line for you, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u32	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Baychev, the majority of your arguments were also put out in the Commission. I have expressed my disagreements with them there, and now I will repeat them again for the wider audience. Firstly, with regard to taxes, we are not quite such specialists in the financial area, but we have nevertheless proposed one thing, I would say, clarification and clearance, if there are any coup d'état interpretations in taxes. It's in our bill, so this criticism of us I can't accept. I cannot accept the criticism that nothing has been mentioned about advertising, since there have been such calls from this tribune, yes, in 2018 and afterwards. We are categorically about limiting advertising and we have achieved it. We've achieved it with the Bill that was passed. It was about the changes in the Gambling Act and was adopted a few months ago and if anyone disputes this, it means that this person who disputes it does not live in Bulgaria. Where do you live, Mr. Baichev? Do you watch Nova TV, bTV, Channel 1? Do you see these ads, or have you very quickly forgotten how from morning till night, the happy, grinning faces of all sorts of people from rural areas were flooded by villages, towns, palanquins, where with big signs they showed how much they had won? Where do you see them now? It's gone, it's gone, it's gone, it's gone, it's gone, it's gone, it's gone, it's gone, it's gone, it's gone, it's gone, And this was the hidden effect and design of ending lottery games as a private initiative, as an opportunity for private property to exercise them. Now, by transferring everything into the hands of the Totalizer, this process is adjustable by the state and you can see that the ads are very limited so you can say that nothing is done, you're wrong. There may not be a specific text, but many things are achieved and not in the direct way. [[Heckling]] Yeah, in an indirect way, that's right! It is clear to you what is the reason why, for example, there is no fuss about this issue - purely political, from the point of view that perhaps texts would not have passed again, as happened in 2018.! By the way, let me remind you that you did not support this law a few months ago "the changes to the Gambling Act." And the fact that it was going to start an illegal business, disproportion in regional development, there's nothing like that. We don't forbid gambling. Gambling addicts who have money can travel 30 minutes or one hour to the nearest border point, or go to the five-star casino where they can invest their money, but we limit exactly what you were talking about as statistics about the growing dependence of the extremely poor social layers of the population, for those who take a pension from the five levs of the day, give 3 levs to turn the slot and as much money as they remain, buy to eat with them. In my line, I express my dissent mainly on these three points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u33	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. Come in for a second line, Mr. Atanasov. While you are on your way, to inform that Minister Dimitrov has said that after the meeting of the Council of Ministers he is ready to come to parliament to give information on the issues. Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u34	Dear Mr. Chairman, Members of the National Assembly! We are not so naive, none of you are naive to believe that gambling with a magic wand will disappear. It has been one of the most ancient occupations of some people since ancient times, so to speak. The point is, we want these things regulated. Bulgaria is ranked first in the world at the moment in the number of gambling halls and casinos per capita of 878 gaming halls and 27 casinos. [[Heckling]] Write it down, write it down! There are frappany cases of violation of the current law. Go to 100 m from the parliament.School Pushkin, Russian High School, 50 m away from it there is a gaming hall, and you know under the Law that should be at least 200 m of such gaming halls from educational institutions. We spit in each other's faces as MPs because only 100 meters we break our own law. Third, as some ancient people say: The dose makes the poison. There can't be gaming halls in the subblock spaces and at the base of the blocks. That's just ridiculous! You don't do that anywhere in the world. The most reputable, the most regulated, the most viewed TV halls in the world, you know, are in the notorious Las Vegas, and everyone thinks that's the way it is all over America. Yeah, but no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Only four states play gambling in California, Nevada, Atlantic City and another state. Thirdly, the most interesting example. You know where the oldest casino in the world is? Monaco. The oldest casino in the world is in the Principality of Monaco. However, I will tell you an interesting fact that the citizens of Monaco are not entitled, if they are citizens of Monaco, to gamble in the Principality of Monaco. They have no right to play and have no right to attend gaming halls and casinos! [[Heckling]] Including, a colleague, and their own prince has no right to attend such establishments, so, my friends, this is not about stopping gambling. It works in some respects, especially for football clubs, which undoubtedly, a huge part of them are financed, are seriously supported by "Efbet" and "Winbet" mostly. So the whole thing is to regulate this business because, for example, where I live, in one of the districts of Plovdiv, in subblock spaces within a radius of about 500. 600 m there are five gaming halls. And you all know it, and you know it best, as you are an intelligent person, that not only the World Health Organization, all health organizations in the world claim that gambling is bo-less. And she's much more dangerous, according to the doctors, I'm not a doctor, here some will confirm it, here Professor Mihailov is against me, even drug addiction. That's it! The job is to regulate this activity. And it's weird for me after all, but when it comes to 3 billion and 280 million just last year, it's not weird at all that there are lobbies to completely protect this business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u35	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. Third line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Baichev, for the back. To increase the time of the group.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u36	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! In line with the lines. First I address my colleague, Mr. Simeonov. Mr. Simeonov, yes, you are undoubtedly right, there is no way everyone could be specialists in tax law, but the problem is that there should have been a public discussion where interested people could be invited and, above all, the Ministry of Finance, which is currently absent, does not have a representative. [[GERB lines.]] Okay, they'll say later. And as we can see, there are no numbers in the motives of the submitted bills to show how much revenue will increase. When we were at the Commission, if memory serves, the manager of the Sports Totalizer for the first three months said that the increase in revenues was 300,000. lv. Up to 60 million in nine months, somehow with very large steps you will have to walk the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer to be able to catch up. And the other thing you said about the commercials and the happy people they were. Well, if you've paid attention, these games are gone. Now that the games are gone, who's gonna pay for some ad? So he's out of the picture. And the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer.Twice a week, I hope a Burgas TV will go, and you will see that it is launched and advertised there. So the ads go the other way, though. As for not putting it into bills, if I may otherwise, I would call that other way backroom arrangements, backroom arrangements and the like. I do not agree that something can thus be inserted and imposed, provided that there is no legal norm for it. Now to Mr. Atanasov. Just to tell you that in addition to the number of gaming halls, we are in the first place producing components for such machines, Mr. Atanasov. So one goes with the other, there's also production. [[Reply from OP.]] It may not be necessary, but it is. As for being in certain areas and giving an example that in the United States is only played in four places, I would give you an idea. For example, Strandzha-Sakar is the most depopulated area in Europe, eight people per square metre less than in Iceland, Norway, Sweden, in general, some icy areas. So maybe as an idea I'm telling you: to build a city where to gamble. [[Noise and lines.]] The infrastructure will be fixed, as the road Malko Tarnovo has not been repaired in a long time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u37	Mr. Baychev, you're way out of line. Please finish.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u38	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u39	Thank you. Mr. Tishev, a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u40	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! A brief commentary on the bill of colleagues from the United Patriarchs. The main motive in it is to fight dependence on gambling. Colleagues, if we do it the same way we did with the lotteries, that is, rubbing the tickets, consider the effect to be very controversial. There we limited private operators to printing tickets and gave full rights to the State Totalizer. That is to say, there are now again lotteries, and as has been mentioned in the Commission, very soon they will return to both food stores and other outlets. You can decide for yourself what the outcome of the legislative initiative is. This one first. And second, I made an elementary account in Sofia five-star hotels gave God, in Plovdiv too, in Burgas, Varna, Ruse are on the border. In these five district centers and in the districts around them, since from there every citizen can reach the district center in 15 minutes, live more than 60% of Bulgarian citizens, active citizens, with high purchasing power, not in some small village, where 80-year-old grandfather with low pension now, and then will not go looking for a casino. In other words, how do we achieve limiting the access of Bulgarian citizens to gambling, thus reducing dependence?! I've bothered to see it in smaller district centers. For example, there is no five-star hotel in Shumen, but they are 90 km from Varna in less than an hour by car. They are 90 km away from the border crossing. What comes out of it? That the objective laid down in the Bill is not even a financial objective, but there to combat addictions will not be achieved. And for the finale, however much the importers deny, these artificial restrictions that we impose will lead to an increase in illegal gambling, as well as online betting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u41	Thank you, Mr. Tishev. - What's the line? The line, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u42	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Mr. Tishev, what... [[(Reply from the National Representative Alexander Paunov:]] Dear Mr. Tishev! [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Dear Grounder, elected member of the Burgas region, it is my happiness to address you! [[Radio.]] Now get to the point. You're exposing your personal opinion, you're absolutely right. However, I cannot accept it as a serious remark, as there must be reasoned arguments in the reply against the main statement of the spokesperson. In this case, the main thing with you, if you allow me to make such a summary, is a personal attitude "You don't believe, you doubt. You're right. But if we speak with facts and arguments, I cannot agree with you in any way that the effect of the termination of private lotteries is controversial. It's not controversial for us. He's not controversial to me personally. I think that this effect is not controversial for the entire Bulgarian people either. There is no mass friction and most of all there is no mass supply in gas stations, shops, fruit-vegetarians and everywhere else. Don't you see it?! [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Okay, you disagree, but the facts I think speak against your personal opinion on the matter. There is no offering, and therefore there is no gambling dependence on a domestic, mass level all over the world, affecting, repeating, the low social levels of the pensioners, the people without income, even the students and children for whom there was no limit. This restriction was not respected in the Law precisely because of the mass supply and distribution of the offered service, thus making things blurry and the children also rubbed coupons, so I do not agree that the effect is controversial. You say: now there are lotteries again. There are lotteries, but they are in an immeasurably smaller volume about ten times. Ten times smaller is the volume of the Bulgarian Totalizer. And with regard to the proposal in the Bill of colleagues from GERB expand the opportunity to propose, vote against. We will vote against it, we also do not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u43	Thank you. Another line? Here you are, Mr. Tishev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u44	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Simeonov, I made a statement, so I didn't need to replicate anyone, but it's about stating facts. I think I was specific enough because the purpose of the Law is to limit addictions. To limit an addiction, you have to limit access to the object. With facts, I have shown that in fact the Bulgarian citizens - 80% of them - will have no problem if they want to play in a bingo hall or in a casino. I've pointed out enough facts. To fight addiction, there really must be limited contact. I don't want to set an example like this, but it's like the CIVID-19. It needs to limit human contact in order to reduce the infection. It is the same, but with this bill we do not achieve this goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u45	Thank you, dear Mr. Tishev. Mrs. Yotova, you have a request to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u46	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! However, there is talk of laws concerning culture, and many times the word "culture" has been mentioned. I'm also sorry that the Minister of Finance isn't here. The only person who's involved in culture has taken the floor. That was Mr. Rashidov. I'm sure none of my colleagues are watching us, but I want to tell you that all these people are waiting for the state to do something about culture. I've been working professionally with culture for 30 years now, and I remember that all the time we've been dreaming about some mythical law of mescentism, about some odds, about 10%, or how much in other countries there are a lot more. What tells us people who work abroad what happens? For example, in Holland, when a large company buys the scenery of a performance, it receives serious tax relief. When I started working here, I was very hopeful, and I thought that right now, something could start working on these topics, under the Law of Mescentia. What did it turn out to be? That none of these laws can work. I don't know if there's another country where you really don't pay attention to people who do culture and don't do anything absolutely real. I want to give you an example. Unfortunately, it was a few centuries ago, and I said it in the Commission. There was a Medici family. You know what they did, they raised, they looked for talented people, they looked for artists. And to this day, the whole world is traveling, going to Florence, and where there are works by Leonardo, by Michelangelo, by Botticelli, these are people who are supported by some patrons. Please, let us make sure that these laws, which can help culture in Bulgaria, really start working. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Yotova. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Gambling Act, No 054-01-50, submitted by the National Representative Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs. They voted 153 MPs: 22, against 4, abstention 127. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Gambling Act, No 054-01-51, submitted by the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. Vote 155 MPs: 99 against 43 abstentions 13. The motion is accepted. We continue with the next item of the Programme: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR ENERGY. Importer.. People's representative Valentin Nikolov and group of MPs. Dear Mr. Nikolov, please present the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "Report on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act, No 054-01-48, submitted by Valentin Nikolov and a group of MPs on 29 May 2020, adopted in the first vote on 3 June 2020. The Act for amendment of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law The Commission supports the text of the importer and proposes the following amendments to the Law: The Act for amendment and supplement of the Energy Act. Proposal of the National Representative Valentin Nikolov, made in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12, para. 1, t. 2 The words before the letter "s" shall be amended as follows: "Support a good professional reputation and not less than 5 years" and in the letter "supplier" shall be added after the word "supplier" shall be added.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u49	You want us to stop here. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u50	We'd better vote on them separately, Mr. Chairman, paragraph by paragraph. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take no part in the title of the Law, although perhaps we should have voted separately, and I take part in the proposal for a new § 1, in which, unfortunately, the impression is given that once again we are changing some rules for the choice of independent bodies, I hope it is not in quotes, members and commissioners with the taste that we are doing it for a certain person. There is no other way to explain that the current framework, which requires professional service for all commissioners not less than 10 years, of which 7 years will be in the energy sector or in the water companies, and in one of the two to be reduced to only five years, adding to the President a You know very well that the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission is one of the main objects of civil disagreements about its decisions. One way in which we can be convinced that this committee works as people is to be elected members of the Commission who have the relevant authority, the relevant professional experience, long-term, to have the appropriate way in which they can be independent. The introduction of only a five-year internship opens the door for the appointment of people comfortable with the ruling majority, with insufficient professional experience, which will eventually fill that legion of ladybugs, with which the Bulgarian administration abounds. There's no way only five years of service can be enough for a commissioner. Perhaps if you had made the proposal in the current legal framework........................................................................................... We would only agree that this would be the change for the President of the Commission to be in office, but only with this. Otherwise, the reduction of the total period of 10 years of service, of which 7 in the speciality, only 5 years old, once again gives us the impression that it is a change of the Law, so that we can appoint not who corresponds to the Law, but to make the Law corresponding to the one we want to appoint. This, unfortunately, does not raise the authority of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. Unfortunately, this happens exactly one day before we adopt the rules for electing new members. Once again, it's unacceptable! In my opinion, it is nice to consider how you will vote, because when in a committee on which it depends not only on what the prices will be, but also how ordinary people will live and whether they will be able to pay them, the commissioners must have authority, should be sufficiently proven professionals and have that work experience and life experience to make them independent, and not open the door to manipulative, young, inexperienced, but at the expense of this obedient staff. We will not support this proposal and we will vote against it, even though we have always sought in the field of energy to seek common solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u51	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Mr. Nikolov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me start from there: in principle, the procedural rules that have been voted by the Commission since the beginning of March and which we have to vote tomorrow, but I will propose that we vote on Friday and not tomorrow are, in principle, so that we can have greater scope than people we can choose. I assure you, we don't have a specific candidate yet. In any case, however, we do so in order to have a bigger palette than the people we have to choose, Mr. Ermenkov. Otherwise, I'll tell you: other regulators have a five-year internship in general, but that's not the point. That's not the point! The palette is really bigger. Provided that the National Assembly elects the members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, we will listen to them, in any case their reputation must be impeccable, because this will be visible to the whole society. Everyone can watch the hearing online, see the biography of everyone presented. After all, it is not necessary and mandatory that the entire KEWRC be in pre-retirement age. I hope they come in young experts after all. Now, as it is written, in reality, a hygienist with a higher education from the NPP, Kozloduy, could become chairman of the KEWRC. That's why it has to be management experience. I think that, as you have agreed, is correct. After all, let's make the palette bigger. Her internship in the Financial Supervision Commission, you know, is five years. As far as I know, I think the Communications Regulation Commission is also five years. Again, let's not focus on this, because that's not the point. The important thing is to have more choice. I see this is where some initials started to start. Maybe those initials are inside the palette we're looking at, but no one's chosen yet. In my opinion, this palette should allow more specialists to get in our sights so that we can have a choice of who to offer. It's not much drama, there's nothing hidden, covered up, provided we offer them. If someone else offered them somewhere else, if someone else wanted to put someone in the National Assembly who wouldn't be seen by people, they wouldn't see their biography, yes, something behind the scenes. Here we go out and say absolutely directly and correctly, we increase the palette. Yeah, we'll pick one person we'll offer, you'll also offer, everyone has the right to offer. Those are the rules. Then we'll listen to them and we'll decide together, so I don't see any drama in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u53	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u54	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Nikolov! The Commission for Protection of Competition President, with 10 years internship, not five, ten. The Personal Data Protection Commission is a member of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data for 10 years of service. It is true that in the Financial Supervision Commission, it says five years, but it writes from the last ten, which, if not explicit, at least suggests theoretically that they should have longer service than these five years. If we believe that these regulatory bodies are more important than the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, it seems to me that we somehow underestimate the role of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. I do not agree with the fact that if you put in 10 years of internship, of which 7 years will be in the field of the respective professional direction, we will have pre-retired age. I'm sorry, but nowadays people start working at 26. This means that, at 36, they can now become members of the Commission. Do not speculate on youth and old age. After all, experience is more important here. You don't have to be old and experienced or young and fit, it all depends on the individual. So I say to you again, let's not open the door. Let's leave them as they were, so we don't create any unnecessary impressions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u55	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Is there another line? Second line please, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u56	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to express my opinion on the rules for the election of members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, which are different from those tabled by the ruling majority, with the following reasons. First, extremely large, perhaps one of the highest public interests is focused on the work of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, because its work affects the lives of all Bulgarian citizens, its decisions depend on how the structural-determining industries will work. I quote the announcement of the request for a greater palette than the applicants........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ If the criteria are preparing for the choice of a particular person, then I warn you that the composition of the Commission, as is an independent regulatory authority, will identify as an indication the political interference in the future work of the body. And if the responsibility for the work is then for the independent body under the legislation, it must be clear that an extremely high political responsibility is being assumed by the current government. The Commission's expired mandate for energy and water regulation gives reason to think [[the President signals that time has run out]] that she also served for this period specific political tasks...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u57	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u58	I'm graduating, Mr. Chairman. ...and the haste was at the call of one who has no right to interfere in the independence of the body, namely the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u59	Thank you, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, I call on you for responsibility right now when we are going to put the future of this Energy and Water Regulatory Commission's work at stake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u61	Third line? You have the floor, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u62	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Nikolov, please explain to your colleagues once again because it has obviously not become clear or manipulated what has been presented from the stand that the reduction of the internship really gives the right to many more candidates and these candidates will be elected by the Commission and by the National Assembly. Therefore, I see nothing wrong with having more candidates who have the opportunity to choose all our colleagues, to choose the best of them. An office shall be placed in the field where the relevant specialist is also required to be elected to the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. The fact that two years is reduced internship in the respective specialty, I don't see anything wrong. It's still the basic five-year internship. As you said, but clearly it must be repeated once again, in all regulatory authorities the requirement is a five-year internship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u63	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. A hole, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to say that we are not in a hurry, but, on the contrary, we have slowed down because the Rules have been adopted as early as March of the Commission. It just happened that there was, you know, a viral pandemic that hadn't dropped out yet, unfortunately, but there was an emergency, and there were other factors that prevented it from entering the room and making the choice. Realistically, we follow everything that is written by law, we have adopted the Rules in the Commission. Now the time has come when they will be accepted in the National Assembly and everything will go step by step. Of course, it's used politically to show off some behind-the-scenes, but there isn't one. If there was a backroom, we'd all be quiet here. Apparently, there's no backstage, no agreements. Now the question is such a 10 years of internship we do not change, 10 years of internship has it, the point is that five years is professional. We are raising the criteria for five years there must be a leading post in energy. So, on the contrary, we increase these criteria in terms of professionalism. So I don't see any problem with that. But either way, with this candidate whether they meet exactly these conditions, whether they are made for him or not, or any other candidate who is not supposed to have external powers outside the National Assembly, eventually we will see his biography, we will see what his management capabilities are, we will see his capacity, we will hear to the Commission what his intention is and how he will work in the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. This is going to be absolutely public. So if anyone has anything to earn, or to question their competence, it will either shine and not be chosen anyone. So I think this is the most public way to evaluate candidates and to be transparent with their biography, with their weight, and with their professionalism. I don't see much of what's happened, that two years reduces the internship, but it increases the professional one, I mean, as guided. So I think it's a perfectly normal thing. The question is that the choice to become transparent is the more important issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u65	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. Any other speeches? Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I thought we would dwell on the essentials of this law, and we got stuck on the first term. Honourable Members, this proposal, in my opinion, is very correct and should, where necessary, make such changes to the laws in order to enable those young who have completed energy not to stand still at the lower levels and, when they have five years of leadership in the energy sector, to be able to take the rightful place in the relevant committees as well. Otherwise, in the circle of the joke, Mr. Taskov and I are talking a little while ago, if we leave those years in which we are still running 10 years of service, it will turn out that only Mr. Tasco Ermenkov has the opportunity to be appointed for the next one. So that's not a problem. My request is: let's not argue. There is an opportunity with this bill really not to remain those who have not been involved in energy for more than 15 and 10 years, and those young people who have developed as quickly as possible have taken up a leadership position, have been five years in the energy system in Bulgaria and why stop these people from taking up such a position? And as far as different letters are concerned, D.P., B.P. And so on, probably T.E. Maybe it's... Let's not play. Gambling passed before this point. Please put it to the vote and let's move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u67	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Is there a line? Any other speeches?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u68	It's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u69	Personal explanation Mr. Tasco Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u70	Dear Mr. Chairman, it's a good thing Mr. Atalay mentioned my name correctly the second time, because otherwise I wouldn't be able to get a personal explanation, because we don't know who this Mr. Taskov here is sitting, except maybe then Dr. Taskov should have taken the personal explanation. I am taking a personal explanation to tell you that I do not have any ambitions for the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, and what we are doing is not from the point of view of the specific requirements concerned. Once again, I would like to say that the requirement for 10 years of service does not make candidates for the KEWRC very elderly. Once again, I say that the final education is at the latest 26 years old, hence another 10 years old, turning 36. I agree that perhaps the requirement for the Chair of the KEWRC should be entered. I agree that he was in a position of responsibility, but only with this, not with the other. So please, very much, let us not make such insinuations that we are making an amendment so that we can bring in one of our people. On the contrary, these amendments that you make give the impression that you want to bring in one of your people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u71	Thank you, Mr. Tasco Ermenkov. If there are no other speeches, we shall proceed to the vote. I put to the vote the amendment proposed by the Commission for the name of the Law. They voted 86 MPs: 84, against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I am now voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 1 with a text according to the Commission report. Vote 97 MPs: 76 against 20, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u72	Allow me, Mr. Chairman, to make a procedure before that on the National Assembly's agenda, item one for tomorrow, which is scheduled for Thursday, to be item two for Friday. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u73	I put to the vote the procedural proposal for a change to the agenda. Please, voting mode.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u74	I'll explain, if I may, Mr. Chairman, until they vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u75	We're done explaining. [[Laughs]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u76	In order for this particular point to enter as part of the President's Election Rules. I mean, there's no cover-up. I say directly what it is about after the Law is published in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u77	Vote 96 MPs: 72, against 21, abstention 3. The proposal for a change in the agenda has been adopted. Continue, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u78	There is a proposal by Valentin Nikolov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 27a. A platform for comparing offers for the supply of electricity shall be established and maintained.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u79	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 2 with a text according to the Commission report. Vote 97 MPs: 95, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u80	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1, which shall become § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u81	Are there any statements under § 1, which becomes § 3? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 1 by importer, which shall become § 3. Vote 92 MPs: 90, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u82	Proposal of the MP Valentin Nikolov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Ramadan Atalay, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Valeri Simeonov, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to set up new paragraphs 4 and 5: ............................................ Section VI of Chapter Three establishes art. Art. 38i. 38k: Art. 38th. (1) The platform under art. 21, para. 1, t. 27a is a single, central, public web-based information system that provides access to up-to-date information on electricity supply bids. Final customers with an expected annual consumption below 100 000 kWh have free access to the platform for comparing offers for the supply of electricity, including offers for contracts with a dynamic price of electricity. (2) The platform under para. 1 must: 1. provides conditions for equal treatment of electricity undertakings when comparing offers for the supply of electricity; 2. provide criteria on the basis of which the comparison is to be carried out, including services which are public; 3. provide accurate and up-to-date information, including the date of the latest update; 4. is accessible to people with disabilities, easy to sense, functionally adapted, understandable and stable; 5. ensure an effective procedure for communicating the existence of inaccurate information on the published tenders; 6. make comparisons with the processing of personal data limited to the data necessary for the comparison. (3) The Commission shall be the operator of the platform under para. 1. (4) The platform shall cover the entire electricity market with customers under para. 1. (5) The conditions and arrangements for maintaining the platform under para. 1 shall be determined by rules adopted by a Commission decision to be published on its website. Art. 38k. (1) Electricity traders shall be obliged to provide the operator of the platform with monthly up-to-date information on their bids for final customers under art. 38th, para. 1. (2) Electricity traders shall provide information on the platform under art. 38th, para. 1 in the invoices of customers or in the annexes thereto. § 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 39, para. 1, t. At the end of the year, the amount of natural gas shall be added to the total amount of natural gas.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u83	Statements? You have the floor, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u84	This, I would say, is important paragraphs that define both the future of electricity market liberalisation and the rules in the gas sector. First of all, what do we arrange for § 4? With § 4 we arrange for this platform, which is respectively described in Directive 944 of 2019, to have access to the information to the licensed traders that will be required to be represented in that platform. On the other hand, we oblige them to submit absolutely up-to-date information about the bids that are described here and which, of course, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, which will create the national platform to submit the up-to-date information on these offers, that is to say, it will create both the platform and the criteria that will act in relation to the platform. These up-to-date offers will, of course, be monitored by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission and will be sanctioned by those who speculate with their offers, do not submit up-to-date or submit inaccurate information on this platform. It is a very important and essential part of being able to be equally informed about who are the persons acting in this market, as well as informed about the tenders, so that they can freely choose with whom to conclude contracts. This is an important part. Therefore, when we continue with the liberalisation of domestic consumers, this platform has already established itself, shown its action and domestic consumers, passing through the crowded path that we are now creating, so that they can freely, gently and calmly choose respectively traders of electricity to supply them with this service. I think this is an important part of the bill that we should do. Of course, there will be other platforms that are not described in this law, but which will have the opportunity to do so. Maybe that'll make it companies that will attract these traders. The more dynamic this is done, the better for the user. Such platforms already exist in England, in Germany, in all developed and liberalized markets of electricity countries, even such a platform exists in Northern Macedonia, and we do not actually have such a platform. That is why we must do this in this bill. The other thing we do in § 5 of the Law is that we license all participants on the gas market. All companies who want to participate in the gas hub platform "Balkan" must receive a licence from the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. Why are we doing this? Firstly, this is a trend throughout the European Union and, in fact, around both Greece and Romania, and everywhere, in reality, these companies are licensed by their regulators. When we created this platform, we intended to license them, but then we had a discussion and agreed on the following thing: not to create obstacles in the emerging gas market, where we do not have enough experience, but we learn from foreign experience, not to create obstacles to the licence, so that sufficient transactions and liquidity can be realised in this market. But after the contract with Gazprom exports and this reduction in the price of gas has been renegotiated, we have received a very big problem in relation to how Bulgargaz's customers, the public supplier who are not licensed, we can oblige them to make sure that they return to their customers the differences they have received from Bulgargaz. Actually, we didn't have that option. The only option for us to intervene on the free market would be sanctioned by the European Commission. We have therefore come to the conclusion that these companies must be licensed in order to be able, through their licence, to make appropriate steps which have previously distorted the market by overtaking, of course, not their fault, the amounts of their customers. I think from this point of view these are good things and good steps that we take for end users. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u85	Thank you. - What's the line? Mr. Ermenkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u86	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria will support this paragraph. I would just like to draw attention to the fact that the Law will be a good regulation for the way this platform will be formed, formed and functioning. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that it is necessary and this is not in connection with the Law, but also to the Commission for Energy and Water Regulation, and to the Ministry of Energy, that Parliament will not be able to carry out that information campaign that they are obliged to do. As they have so far relied only on Parliament.. we should adopt the laws, change the rules and regulate those relationships that the Ministry of Energy has failed to do, and once again save the situation in the field of energy, instead of looking at and following the government's policy, there is no way to carry out the information campaign. I therefore call on them: let them do their job this time and by 1 October 2020 be able to make those preparatory, explanatory, informational and, I would say, even training campaigns, so that the end user can know what this platform is, how it is used and what its benefits are. Otherwise, at the moment, we will adopt a text, I said, we will support it, which will hardly benefit consumers if they are not prepared for this job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u87	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line? Mr. Boychev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, these are really very important provisions. In particular, the creation of this platform with which we delegate the rights of the KEWRC to create it. In addition to the information that will be uploaded to this platform, in particular all traders operating on this market and offering such a service, there will also be something very important, namely an electronic calculator, in which each customer of the service will be able to insert its basic requirements as a profile, such as electricity consumption and, accordingly, the electronic calculator to draw out the five best offers offered to him on this platform from all electricity traders, which is very important. I would also like to join my colleague's call for the Ministry of Energy to promote this platform, because what we are doing as liberalisation of the electricity market is something new. The Ministry of Energy has plenty of time to promote what we are doing so that potential customers, who are not a little bit about 300,000 non-bit subscribers, have to come out on this platform by 1 October and, accordingly, enter into contracts with a electricity trader, have the capacity to inform themselves of this service, what they need to do and, accordingly, take advantage of all the advantages that the liberalisation of this market will give. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u89	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Are there any lines? Any other speeches? I vote on the Commission's proposal to create two new paragraphs 4 and 5 with a text from the Commission report. Vote 97 MPs: for 96, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Honourable MPs, at the request of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria and I will give the floor to Minister Emil Dimitrov to provide information regarding the construction of Alephu locality in relation to his speech on 16 June 2020. You have the floor, Minister, to provide the information.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I apologize for interrupting the item on the agenda. We had a meeting of the Council of Ministers, I was a little late. It was not disrespectful to the MPs. As soon as I found out, I came to you immediately and I'll give you information on your questions. From what I understand, one question is about Aleppu, and the other question is about Varna Lake. I'll start with Varna Lake. The information we have collected is from RIEW, you know that there are pre-trial proceedings, there are prosecutorial checks, and we do not interfere in the work of the institutions related to the judiciary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u91	Mr. Secretary, excuse me. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u92	Yes, well, then I will answer only for Aleppu, I apologize, Mr. Chairman, if there is no for Varna Lake. I will inform you of everything I know from the information I have received from RIEW Burgas related to the construction between St. Thomas Cape and the so-called driving beach known as Alephu. The procedure has started with a notification under art. 10, para 1 of the Studio Assessment Regulation, issued on 17 December 2016 for an investment proposal: "Development of a resort complex consisting of a "Alepu Village" in land plot No 67800.49.27 and "Alepu Breeze Village" in land plot No 67800.12.422, No 67800.12.420, No 67800.12.421, No 67800.12.422, as well as the activities of strengthening the registered landslide in land plot No 67800.49.27, Alepou locality, Sozopol locality, Sozopol municipality, with contracting entity "Alepu Village" AD, "Bris 2000" Ltd.,. According to the attached sketches issued by the Geodesy and Cartography Office, the land estate No 67800.49.27 has an area of 7 thousand. 568 sq. m, permanent purpose on the territory: urbanized, and a way of lasting use: for resort hotel Land estate No. 67800.12.423 has an area of 12 thousand. 612 sq. m, permanent use on the territory: urbanised, and a way of lasting use: for another resort-recreation site. Land plot No 67800.12.420 with area 492 sq. m, permanent use on the territory: urbanised, and a way of lasting use: for another resort-recreation site. Land plot No 67800.12.421 with an area of 71 sq. m, permanent use on the territory: urbanised, and permanent use: for electricity production. Land plot No 67800.12.422 with an area of 115 sq. m, permanent use on the territory: urbanised, and a way of lasting use: for another resort-recreation site. The land-owned properties with certificates No 67800.49.27 and No 67800.12.423, No 67800.12.420, No 67800.12.421 and No 67800.12.422 according to the resort complex of Sozopol, Alepu locality are examined in the amendment of the General Development Plan of Sozopol Municipality with a mandatory environmental assessment and assessment of compatibility with the object and objectives of the conservation of protected areas with an EC opinion No 22 of 2014 of the Minister for Environment and Water. I would like to remind you of this year. Part of the property falls within Area A territorial and spatial protection areas according to art. 10, para. 1 of the Black Sea Coast Construction Act, with a building density of 20%, building intensity of 0,5, percent landscaping 70%, the nature of the construction up to 7,5 m. The rest of the property falls into zone B with a building density of 30%, building intensity of 1,2, percentage landscaping 50%, the nature of the construction up to 10 m. The properties fall within the protected zone BG0001001 for the conservation of natural habitats and of wild flora and fauna and protected zone BG0002041 complex "Ropotamo" for the conservation of wild birds. The Regional Environmental and Water Inspectorate Burgas has conducted a procedure under art. 31 of the Biodiversity Act through a requested Report assessing the extent of the impact of the investment proposal on protected areas. The procedure was concluded by Decision No BC-10-OS of 29 December 2017, which agreed with the investment proposal. The decision was not contested within the statutory period and entered into force. I would like to point out that for the legality of the construction under the provisions of the Law on the Construction of Territories and for the Management of the Black Sea Coast MOEW, in particular RIEW, Burgas is not a competent authority and the questions should be addressed to the relevant competent authorities. On the occasion that I made statements yesterday and this caused the honourable Members to raise a question. The question was: how will I comment on the prosecution's activities regarding the protest made before the court? I said I can't comment on the prosecution, I can't comment on any decisions of the court, because we are in a judicial phase, we are in the rule of law, it wouldn't be right for me to give opinions in any direction. Whatever the court decides and comes up with a decision, we'll deal with it. We live in the rule of law! I have no right to comment on the activities of the institutions, as I said back then, I meant the judicial institution, the judiciary, and it is not right for me to comment on the prosecution. It's a strategy she's adopted, and it's to protest a building permit. We don't issue the building permit, I think Sozopol municipality gave it away. When we have a decision on this issue by the judiciary, we will take all subsequent and follow-up action. One cannot consider that a construction permit has been granted after the entire procedure has been carried out with regard to the Ministry of Environment and Water, respectively in the case of RIEW, the Decision has entered into force, there have been no objections, years after that someone would like me to give a reverse ruling on the activities of the Prosecutor's Office or the judiciary. That's what I said. To rule on the judicial system, then we will take absolutely everything they have said. I can't comment on the prosecution's actions, and it wouldn't be right. All the information I have collected is based on data submitted by RIEW Burgas. In no way have I tried to request data from the prosecution, because this would be perceived in an unacceptable way that the executive authority interferes with other types of authorities. Moreover, I would not like to ask the question of what you are going to do about it?........ in any way to influence a future process, to seize powers or to appear that I myself issue sentences..... this is in no way right to happen in our country. So I repeat my words from yesterday, I do not comment, I fully assist the prosecution in all its actions, and RIEW Burgas has adopted this tactic and is helping in every way. We have provided all the documents, we have found out about the protest, we expect the judicial procedure when it is finished, after establishing the facts and their legality by the prosecution and, accordingly, the court as a competent authority, we will rule on the environment in case of the need to issue a new building permit under the Law on Construction in the Area. Until then, it wouldn't be right to comment, it wouldn't be right to guess what would have happened or wouldn't have happened. All these activities that I've cited to you so far have been carried out long before I became a minister, you know, I'm from January. Of course, I believe that the prosecution and society are in their rights to show interest on every subject. I am also prepared to respond to any information you request in the future. I believe that at the moment, however, neither the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works nor the Ministry of Environment and Water have the right to carry out any activity until we hear the ruling by the court to make it clear that we are living in the rule of law. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u93	Thank you, dear Minister. I'll give you the floor in the manner of conduct. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Dimitrov! On the request to provide information about what is happening to Aleppu and rather about your words yesterday that there will be a very nice hotel, you did not reply today. Today you say quite another thing that you will not comment on the prosecution, you will not comment on the court...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u95	To me, Mr. Svilensky, to remind you that this is in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u96	Yes, Mr. Chairman, you have the procedure, as you have admitted this information. But you didn't say why there would be a nice hotel there. The Prime Minister said there would be some very nice bird cages there, and I'm asking, should we trust you or the Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u97	Mr. Svilensky, are you asking me? I can't answer your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u98	...who said there'd be bird cages, and you said there'd be a very nice hotel. What's going to happen after all?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u99	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u100	I am very sorry, I know that this is not the procedure and you are doing this on purpose, but in order that it does not appear that there is no transparency, thank you, dear Mr. Chairman, for giving me the opportunity. I don't want to take my words out of context, first and last, and draw any conclusions. I'm so sorry. I said, everything I've seen is on TV. What I've seen doesn't look like a protective brig support facility at all. It looks like a hotel to me, maybe it'll be a nice hotel, but I'm not saying whether it is or not, whether the court will rule or not, I didn't say: I expect a very nice hotel and I'm waiting to settle there. There was no such thing! You speculate with my words, take them out of context and oppose me to the Prime Minister. What I saw, I told the media yesterday. Maybe it's my fault that I'm talking to the media to get my conversation torn out of context. But the truth is that there is, and the footage from yesterday, if someone lets it all out, I'll tell you: what I saw on TV doesn't look like a fortification facility, it looks like a hotel, maybe it's a hotel. And what I added: I think it is not my place to comment on everything related to this, because it went to details of the designer who his wife was, who his sister-in-law was. Is that the question, is that the conversation? In my opinion, the person who should give the right opinion in this case is the investor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u101	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u102	I'm not an investor, I didn't authorize it, I'm not a chief architect, I didn't authorize construction, I didn't protest it in court. I'll follow all the instructions of the court. I don't know what else is in there, I'm waiting for the competent institutions to pronounce themselves, and it doesn't look like a shore support facility to me. I don't know what's gonna be there, it could be a nice hotel, but once the court has ruled.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u103	First Mr. Kostadinov in the manner of conduct. I'll give you my word, Mr. Genov. [[Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria "Declaration"]] If it's on behalf of a parliamentary group, please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u104	Dear Minister, dear colleagues! We at BSP are seriously alerted that in our country, thanks to the management of this coalition, a new serious epidemic has erupted. There is no way to protect ourselves with disinfectants, masks or social distance. It is about the insolence with which the Bulgarian nature is taken away badly. Laws, re-building of the Bulgarian Black Sea coast are under way. The deliberate inaction of the Ministry of Environment and Water is careless. Instead of the Ministry of Environment and Water taking quick and adequate measures to protect ecology, people and the law, we are all witnessing unprecedented ministerial insolence. Minister Dimitrov said yesterday with enviable courage that he would not stop the dubious construction in the Alephu area because, I stress, he had no intention of becoming an ecological bat. No, Mr. Minister, you are not a bat, but with the inaction and with the refusal to protect the Law, ecology and the huge public interest, you become a curling iron in the hands of questionable interests through which the nature of the Bulgarian Black Sea coast continues to be destroyed. The time has passed, Mr. Minister, in which you had to choose whether to be a minister and conduct frank actions in such a heavy portfolio, and it turns out that you will be a figurehead for the term of office. If you refuse to do what you are appointed to do, we at BSP advise you quietly, as soon as possible, to withdraw. The inadmissible arrogance with which it closes its eyes to the willow of criminal, scandalous schemes from Shabla to Sinemorets is worth tens of millions of levs. The Aleppu case really turned out to be the audacity you're trying to get away with. Really look at the society boiling. Mr. Minister, let me ask you, do you sleep peacefully? Do you dream of impressive hotel buildings in this place, on mysterious support walls, the same ones that your coalition prime minister vowed would be birdhouses inside?! Do you have elementary respect for the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office, which is already investigating the same construction that you are somehow trying to neglect?! Or do you forget why you're in this position and how he was unattractive?! Isn't it time to get angry at the environmental inspections on the ground, as well as the blind State building control that is squeezing its eyes so that it doesn't see the systematic violations of the construction of the Bulgarian Black Sea coast! Do we have a Minister of Ecology who has the courage to take a position on the scandal of illegal construction now near Sinemorets, who violates the Black Sea Coast Act, and the Biodiversity Act is built directly on the rocks, for which, Minister, you do not need to be an ecological bat, you should know that this is exclusive state property. Baggers are ruining the next dunes this time in Nature Park, near Ahtopol. And you, Mr. Minister, are squeezing your eyes out so you don't see the scandal that's going on in front of the media investigation of a dubious state exchange for St. Vlas. The ecological bat may have been convenient for you in your pocket, because 50 days ago the MOEW excluded some of this particular property from the protected area. We from BSP ask, Minister! We do not know who wants you to be an ecological bat, but the post obliges you to be a defender of the green resources of Bulgaria, not a helper or an involuntary witness to their destruction. If you do not know this, leave on time, because you have hardly forgotten that ministers are also responsible for criminal inaction. There is no way to spare you, Mr. Dimitrov, the inexplicable silence about the spectacular scandal of water pollution along the Bay of Varna and the Lake of Varna. We all know there who the mayor is from, so you don't see what you can see from space and from satellite images that pollution has already reached Kamchia's mouth?! As it turns out, that's not a problem for you. If you really, Mr. Dimitrov, want to remain in your post, let you have the courage to bear the responsibility. Where is the Ministry and how did it allow a nesting colony of large Cormorants to be destroyed on the North Black Sea coast? Nearly 200 birds have lost offspring after the forest in which they nest, Mr. Simeonov, on the coast of Durankulak Lake, has been cut down, even though it falls into the Natura 2000 and at the same time the state continues to sleep. The list of the most drastic eco-nauses to which the Minister of Ecology closes his eyes is still open. Other serious disorders may be added to it. Arrogance, Mr. Dimitrov, cannot be based on the coalition immunity with which you are so comfortably furnished. We demand urgent and open liability for all listed and unlisted environmental abuse and damage. And if you, Minister, don't take serious action, you should resign. Both options are better than in time, because of criminally professional lack of care, to take the path of your predecessor. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u105	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Time out for 30 minutes. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u106	Colleagues, we're moving on. Please take your seats. There is a procedure in the manner of conduct. Mr. Kostadinov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u107	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Madam President! The procedure is in the manner of conduct as echoes from the previous point of hearing the Minister. The clock just fell off and I couldn't get it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u108	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u109	I appeal to you, Madam President, in connection with the Law on the Construction of the Area and the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast. On this basis, I would like to call on you from the heights of the position, place and authority you have, to call, like the Minister of Environment and Water and the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, and the Minister of Tourism, to make their hearing, as we have a condition of binding competence. We know that this is a delicate issue, but I do not wish to be in a situation where, if we do not make binding competence in these hearings, we will create another smokescreen to cover up the activities of MRDPB and the Ministry of Tourism. Secondly, and that concludes, I know that it is a delicate issue because it is headed towards the small coalition partner, respectively his ministry, and not to the Minister of GERB, but, as I said, based on the Law on Structure of the Area and the Law on Construction of the Black Sea Coast, please use your powers, authority and position, which you are in order to listen to both the Ministers on Case Alephu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u110	Of course, Mr. Kostadinov. There is no problem and there is no taboo theme in this National Assembly. If you want, we can invite them to provide information. [[Relations from the National Representative Atanas Kostadinov.]] You want information on this subject? If you don't mind, I can warn them to come tomorrow. All right, they will be warned and I will return the answer we will receive for giving information tomorrow on the topics Mr. Kostadinov outlined, respectively, by the ministers. We continue with the Second Voting of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u111	I'm continuing as far as we've gone. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2 which shall become § 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u112	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 2, which shall become § 6. Vote 71 MPs: for 70, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u113	Proposal of the National Representative Valentin Nikolov, made in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is In the case of initial registration on the electricity market, with the delivery contract, the customer shall authorise the supplier to conclude contracts on his behalf and on his behalf with the relevant network operator and with the last resort supplier and to submit the application for initial registration. The contracts may also be concluded by electronic signature. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3, which shall become § 8. Proposal of the MP Valentin Nikolov and a group of MPs: ##7 is being created.##7# The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Ramadan Atalay, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 199 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 5 texts before t. 1 is amended as follows: The distribution network operator with a written motivated refusal, a copy of which is sent to the Commission, may refuse joining the distribution network when it is missing: 2. In para. 6 sentences are created second and third: "If you refuse under para. 5, t. 1 The distribution network operator shall be obliged within three months of receipt of the customer's refusal to provide the required capacity. The distribution network operator shall not issue a subsequent refusal to the same customer on the same basis.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u114	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u115	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Nikolov, dear colleagues! Commenting on the proposed text in § 9, art. 199 at the moment, if I'm honest, I'm considering making a proposal, but I'd rather share with you a few considerations that lead me to the logic of a proposal of this nature. In the way the text is written after.. it can refuse accession to the distribution network..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I am not saying that this recording, which the Commission proposes, is not good, but I will try to motivate my proposal or my reasoning with the following facts: we are adamant to have in energy regulations, to have rules. I see everyone's efforts. With one law, however, we will not be able to clear all that is in terms of regulation and we have as a concept of justice. The coin always has the opposite side as it has regulation, so there should be freedom for the business initiative. The reason for these reasoning is as follows: according to initial data, gas distribution networks have built at least twice the gas distribution network compared to Bulgartransgaz. Also according to initial data, nearly a quarter of a million households, and you know that in Bulgaria only a percentage and a half of households are connected to a gas distribution network, have access to gas infrastructure, but do not use gas, because the policy of the Bulgarian state is to subsidize electricity in a certain way and so is not priority distribution of gas and its access to households and the economy, which for me is not correct, but this is not the subject of this law. Next, we can say that the state is working against gasification, because it is in such laws that we do not create incentives, but we create somewhat administrative obstacles. So if there is text or writing, but I am inclined if there is a debate on this issue in the next amendment of the Law in this part to be better thought out, to make it clear that we are not only continuing to punish the gas distribution companies for the activity they are carrying out and which we have restricted administratively and that we cannot refuse them to join a gas distribution network if this is within the scope of their already established business plan. Colleague Nikolov understood my argument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u116	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. You won't be making an editorial amendment for now.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u117	I'm holding back.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u118	You're making an opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u119	It's not typical for a second reading, but I'm sorry I did it that way.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u120	You're right, of course. Colleagues, lines? I won't. Mr. Nikolov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u121	Thank you, Madam President. I do it as a statement because I will not have enough time in the line, otherwise I absolutely agree with Mr. Kostadinov. What we are provoked to accept this small step in the fact that we are trying the licensing officer, when making a motivated refusal, first, this refusal to be known, respectively, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, because this has not been the case so far. Secondly, to oblige the licence holder to the licensing territory in which it is, when motivated, that there is insufficient capacity, to give it a time limit to remedy this capacity problem and not be able to follow a refusal within the next six months. Let us explain what is the current state of licensing and licensing territories that they actually manage and have to invest. First, anyone who is a gas distribution company must be licensed by the Regulator. It shall issue this licence and therefore have requirements in relation to that licence and the responsibilities it must, of course, carry out separately, be granted to it by licence territories. The problem is that in these licensing territories, a licence territory is usually a village, a city is also divided into licensing territories, the licencer or operator of this distribution network, makes the relevant central pipeline and from then on we see that there is not enough ambition to exploit, attract households to it and starts to make refusals that allow it the Law. One of the refusals he may make is when there is no economic appropriateness in relation to this investment. The Law describes what this economic advantage is when the return on investment is less than 8 years. Notice, the investments made in the transmission network and in the distribution network of electric companies, the return is between 15 and 25 years, which are accepted and here is only 8 years. There we do not take regard at the present time, but try to have enough statistics as to how many rejections there are in this case. In fact, the problem is that some licence holders have licensing territories and do nothing about it, that is, they hold them for a future period when SOCAR, for example, comes, not to advertise after the Greek connection is built and wants to settle in the market, at some point to start bargaining and sell their licence and the licensing territories in which they are. Which means we don't have enough investment in this network, unfortunately. There is an example of a large village near Sofia, where the licensed person will not say who is not to cause him problems, because it is not sufficiently verified, but he gassifies the main pipeline and tells the household that wishes to be connected: you find me 10 more customers and then I can join you, otherwise I will make a refusal for economic reasons. At some point, those who want to be connected become some sort of company collaborators, start advertising it, gather neighbors, so that they can actually be connected to this gas distribution network. And we have a lot of rejections. When we asked the KEWRC why there were such refusals, they said: well we do not know about it, we generally do not keep statistics. If they want to, let them make a request to us, and we will oblige the license holder to do so, because that is his duty. And that is why we are making this amendment, that is, when there is a motivated refusal of the licencer, it is to make a copy of it to the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. Firstly, we will know this statistics as to why and how it was done and, secondly, the Commission can self-serving and oblige the licencer where it considers it is not sufficiently motivated, precisely this economic appropriateness, to fulfil its obligations. Of course, in capacity there is no point in talking, because in its business model, which he has defended to the Commission, it has been spent and has had to provide capacity on its licensing territory. So there's no problem with that thing, which means the licensing territory is all in this business plan. What's the problem with the business plan? The business plan is usually five years old, which protects the KEWRC. The KEWRC generally confirms it, does not interfere with business plans, removes other costs that reduce them, but in reality, this is a five-year business plan. On the basis of this five-year plan, the price of the service which the licensee, in fact the gas distribution company, takes from its subscribers, is formed. That is, he starts to take the price of the investments he will invest in advance. After three years the CEWR is re-evaluated the business plan and usually, I usually say, it is not implemented and for this reason... [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u122	I'm coming, Madam President. ...he's being reviewed and reviewed and priced. So we need to do everything possible for these gas distribution companies to fulfil their business plans that they have protected and not to refuse, because this low price of gas that they have can reach maximum consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u123	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. - What's the line? I won't. Come in for a statement, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u124	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Kostadinov raised a cardinal question, a problem that we cannot solve with this paragraph. And what Mr. Nikolov has explained to us right now is on one side of the medal. I am convinced that the state must have the control mechanism. There's no way that, with the license, or after that, he could check to see if he's running his business plan. But when the business plan is presented, our regulator's intervention is so substantial that it never accepts this business plan with those investments that are presented so that it can shape the price of the gas that will be delivered once. Secondly, there, in the business plan, there is a requirement of them to gasify, Mr. Nikolov. But see now the anomalies that occur in the cities take, for example, one street of 1000 m or 2 km, it is gasified, but there are deviations for 100 families, and there is only one family connected. And here we can't blame the licensing officer. The experience we are currently trying to make, I only agreed that it concerns the territory of the licencer, is not about the main pipeline, which should be spent from one licencer to the other 20 km pipeline. But once we put this thing down, we also reduced sanctions, here we need the KEWRC very seriously and clearly to look at and say yes, you, following your business plan, when you gasification, make sure that, first of all, you organize those customers who will join us. It is either a question of raising the price of gas supply, the KEWRC should determine it according to the business plan, not to reduce the price of gas supply, or to create a common system with the KEWRC, with customers and licencers, so that gasification can go according to the rules, so we apply it. Please, let us not enter the essential part, but leave only what is proposed as control by the KEWR about the capacity they offer and move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u125	Thank you, dear Mr. Atalay. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u126	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I am very glad that there has been a serious debate on these provisions in the Law, because at this point, what are the facts? All colleagues agree, and there has been a serious debate in the Commission that below or around 3% there is domestic gasification, which is extremely small in terms of at least what it should be, that there should be a much greater interest in this gasification. Most refusals are on the part of licence companies due to lack of economic appropriateness or therefore lack of capacity. It is much less comparable to the other refusals that we have tried here, which turned out to be very strange when the licencer refused economic appropriateness. This information is not in KEWRC, it is not going to KEWRC. In the debates, when we were thinking about the texts, we definitely wanted to introduce a lot more restrictive texts from the point of view of not having the possibility, because the licences in one territory have protected the price on the basis of the investments they will make to the KEWRC, and there should not be any refusals on the path of logic for economic inadequacy or therefore for the lack of capacity, because they have put it into the business plans they presented to the KEWRC, and therefore on the basis of these business plans there are certain prices. So I wanted to be much more drastic about the texts, but this is still an attempt to sharpen the attention and try to get a statistic, naturally for the future time, at least to see what the withdrawals from the licence holders are. At this point, it is a fact that the price of gas is reduced by 42%. This is a fact and there is already a market component introduced in the pricing of the gas. So from now on, gasification will become more and more up-to-date, and from the point of view of the problems that we have with ecology about this, I think the direction is very correct. I think we need to take a bolder step further to get the licencers to at least carry out their business plans that they have presented and defended to the KEWRC, and therefore have certain prices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u127	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. Do we have lines? I can't see. Mr. Ermenkov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u128	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We will also support this proposal as a first step towards this gasification, which we are talking about as I remember it in my energy internship since 2003, we are talking about gasification. I just want to say that the problem is much deeper than what we are currently changing, and this is the first step really. It will not be enough, but at least to go in the real direction, because when we talk that the licencer has defended his business plan, unfortunately, in his license his business plan involves gassifying the territory, but not the defined specific, accurate person in the sense point. That's why right now we have settlements where the relevant distribution pipelines have been spent on the main streets, he has implemented this part of the business plan, there is no... But in this business plan and in all the conditions of his license there is no requirement but to spend 5 km of an example gas pipeline, to have four points connected to it, and that is actually the main problem that we have to solve. In fact, we do, I say again, the first step and I think this step is in the right direction. I hope that we do not limit ourselves to this, but to move forward together, to really look for an environmental way of heating, which will replace the lowest efficient way through electricity, which in many places currently exists and leads to large bills and problems in the system and environmental problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u129	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the new § 7 created, the text of the importer for § 3, which shall become § 8; and the new § 9 created. Voted 103 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted. Here you go, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u130	Thank you, Madam President. Proposal by the MP Valentin Nikolov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Ramadan Atalay, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Tasco Ermenkov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 10: ..................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 206a: Art. 206a. (1) To an energy undertaking, a gas distribution network operator which has failed to fulfil its obligation under art. 199, para. 6 sentence two, a penalty of 20 000 to 100 000 BGN is imposed. (2) In the case of a repeated infringement, the penalty shall be three times the penalty under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. Proposal of the MP Valentin Nikolov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Tasco Ermenkov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to set up paragraphs 11 and 12: ..................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 224h: Art. 224z. (1) To an electric energy trader who does not fulfil an obligation under art. 38k, a penalty of 5 000 to 50 000 BGN is imposed. (2) In the case of a repeated infringement, the penalty shall be three times the penalty under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. § 12. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 225, para. 2 the words "and 224g" shall be replaced by "224g" and "224h." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4, which shall become § 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u131	That's it. Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the new § 10; paragraphs 11 and 12; the text of the importer for § 4, which shall become § 13. They voted 104 MPs: for 104, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u132	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the division of the Law. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5, which shall become § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... (1) In the proceedings under art. 1 of the proceedings initiated until the entry into force of this law. 30, para. 1, t. 9 for the price/regulation period ending on 30 June 2021, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission pursuant to art. 30, para. 1, t. Art. 9, Art. 94a, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 97, para. 1, t. 4 approves prices as follows: 1. for domestic customers for a period up to 30 June 2021; 2. for non-bit customers supposed for a period up to 30 September 2020 (2) In the proceedings under para. 1 open meeting and public discussion shall not be held if they are held until the entry into force of this law.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u133	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the name of the division of the Law; and the version of § 5, which shall become § 14 of the Commission Report. They voted 101 MPs: for 100, against 1, no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u134	Proposal of the MP Valentin Nikolov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Valentin Nikolov, made in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 15: ...... 15.................................................... (1) Within 30 days of the entry into force of this law, final suppliers shall notify each non-bit final customer of the termination of the supply of electricity from 1 October 2020 of low voltage grid-connected entities in the relevant licensing territory. (2) If, by 30 September 2020, including a client under para. 1 has not entered into a contract with an electricity trader at freely negotiated prices, the supply of electricity is carried out by its current supplier, as a licence holder under art. 39, para. 1, t. 5. (3) The supplier under para. 2 enters into a type contract with customers who, until 30 September 2020, have not entered into a contract with an electricity trader. The type contract shall have a period from 1 October 2020 to 30 June 2021. Until the type contract has been concluded, the supplier under para. 2 provides the supply of electricity, provided that the customer pays all the amounts due in relation to the delivery in due time. (4) By 31 August 2020, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission shall establish a model of the type contract under para. 3 governing the rights and obligations of the parties, the conditions for the supply of electricity and for the termination of the contract. (5) The replacement of the supplier shall be carried out under the conditions of art. 95, and the client does not owe a penalty and the change is not accompanied by additional obligations for him. As of 1 July 2021, customers who have not chosen a supplier shall be supplied with electricity under the conditions of art. 95a.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u135	Statements? Mr. Atalay, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u136	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, in fact, the paragraph establishing the platform and § 15 resolve the issue of market liberalisation for non-resident consumers. All that is recorded in the platform, I wish that the KEWRC will also be able to fulfil that obligation that is necessary in order not to create shocks by creating the platform and the possibility that everyone can enter and receive that information that is necessary, of course. And here is my request: the MPs, the Ministry of Energy, electricity traders, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission to participate in a powerful information campaign so that most of those customers can enter the free market. Here with § 15 we create a very great comfort for those in charge what was expected is that eventually on 1 October 300,000 customers and from them somewhere around 200,000 do not appear under the Prime Minister's windows, and we have created an opportunity without any shock to receive the relevant electricity from the final supplier. But I ask you, colleagues, not to happen that of these 300,000 customers on the free market to come out only about four or five thousand. If you want us to be useful, if you want to make sure that competition is obtained on the free market so that everyone who has gone to the free market can receive a lower price of electricity provided to him, get involved in this campaign and support § 15. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u137	Thank you, dear Mr. Atalay. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Ermenkov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u138	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In fact, § 6, which became § 15, in the way it was introduced into the original proposal at first reading, was the reason why we abstained when it was voted on, because there were dangers that traders would not be found to supply small businesses and small consumers and they would eventually go to the last instance supplier. The developed in this way § 15 largely corresponds to what we talked about and discussed before it was imported, and we believe that the appropriate mechanism is being created where there is no consumer, regardless of the amount of energy it consumes, cannot find the supplier concerned. It's a good thing we're imposing obligations on final suppliers to continue delivering energy to micro and small consumers. It is good that they will enter into a type contract based on the licenses they have as energy traders, i.e. they will take energy from the stock exchange. However, the issue that exists is that I pay attention to the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission for the validation of the model of a type contract. Let them be so good at developing a type contract that is both the obligation of a supplier and of a consumer to create conditions that are not worse than those currently having. If we want to achieve the objectives of market liberalisation, we need to show that those who have come out at the moment, these 300 000 enterprises are in a significantly better state and receive better energy than when they were on the regulated market. If we do not achieve this goal, if we do not make the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission similar type contracts which, in some ways, guarantee this thing, if we fail to convince that the things we are doing are for the benefit of consumers, and not simply because the European Commission wants us to liberalise the market, this law that we are adopting at the moment will remain another law that will enter the analytes of the unfulfilled, or even vice versa, will compromise the idea of liberalisation. Therefore, once again, I pay attention to how the type contracts will be made so as not to achieve the opposite effect of the one we are aiming for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u139	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line? Any other speeches? Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u140	Dear colleagues, this is an important point. Why are we making this transition period? First of all, I want to make it clear that we don't do it for socially weak, poor, underprivileged and so on. These are generally companies, these are natural and legal persons who are registered under the Commercial Law, and who should have the initiative, should have the courage, should look for a way to reduce costs, be proactive in their search. However, we are still making this transition period. Why are we doing this? Very correctly in the previous statements and Mr. Atalay, and Mr. Ermenkov said that in small towns, they set an example with barbershops, hairdressers and whatnot, these are really people who have created some company as much as to make a living and basically patch their livelihood into this small settlement. They may not have enough initiative, maybe they have some account that the Commercial Law requires them to submit to the tax office, but they do not use it. They go to the Post Office and pay for electricity. At some point, they didn't realize that they were on the free market, although we oblige the final suppliers to notify them within 30 days, they failed to read the invoice well enough that they were going out on the free market, at some point they had already been transferred to someone professionally and had to somehow pay for their electricity. He goes to the Post Office and it turns out that the Post Office says you don't have an account, you can't pay. Accordingly, if we transfer them to a trader according to some methodology, this trader will not know how to notify him that he already has an account that he has to pay by bank transfer. For this reason, we studied foreign experience in Germany, in the Czech Republic, in Austria, in Romania. In fact, they go on a territorial principle to these end suppliers. However, the final suppliers we have done our best not to enslave them with any contracts. That is why we are making a Blanc contract that the Commission will establish and, accordingly, we are making sure that if they decide to leave the final supplier, they do not owe any penalty. That is, we have made the system as open as possible and their initiative at some point to work. We give this transition period, firstly, to work the platform, to be able to navigate people; secondly, the information campaign, if it has not reached in these three months, to continue. As Mr. Atalay said, we all need to get involved in this thing, because this will be a prelude to domestic consumers afterwards, who need to be familiar with the crowded path of what we are doing now, in reality, to take place. What we are doing is very important, in my opinion, and we are giving the opportunity to create enough maximum competition to fight even for those who go to the final suppliers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u141	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. A line? Are there any other speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 6, which shall become § 15. Vote 91 MPs: 87, against 3, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u142	Proposal of the MP Valentin Nikolov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish § 16, §17, § 18 and § 19: ......... 16........................................... From 1 January 2021, natural gas traders shall submit to the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission applications for the issue of a licence under art. 39, para. 1, t. 5. § 17. From 1 October 2021, natural gas trade shall be carried out on the basis of a licence under art. 39, para. 1, t. 5. § 18. Within 30 days of the entry into force of this Act, final suppliers of electricity shall publish on their website a list of non-resident end customers under § 15, para. 1. § 19. The Energy and Water Regulatory Commission shall establish the platform and lay down the rules under art. 38th, para. 5 by 31 December 2020
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u143	Can we stop here, because Mr. Ermenkov wants to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u144	No, let me talk about the next one.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u145	He wants to vote separately on the paragraphs.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u146	§ 16 to § 19 separate votes. Okay, let's stop. We'll vote them out and move on. Are there any speeches on those paragraphs? I can't see. We're going to vote separately for each of us.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u147	No, together. Next one separately.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u148	It's clearer now, Mr. Ermenkov. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create paragraphs 16, 17, 18 and 19 with a text under the Commission report. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u149	The Commission proposes to establish § 20: .................................................................................. The full liberalisation of the wholesale electricity market shall take place by 1 July 2021
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u150	Thank you. Statements? Mr. Ermenkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u151	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Yesterday in the Commission when examining the Draft Law at second reading, the Minister of Energy explained to us that this paragraph is vital because without it we would not be informed about Bulgaria's inclusion in the capacity mechanism. At the risk of repeating myself from what I said at first reading, the problem that exists with this law is that this liberalisation is doing it not so much following the directive which obliges us to do it as forced by the circumstances to do it now quickly so that we can receive notification of the capacity mechanism so that our thermal power plants can work. Unfortunately, this commitment of liberalisation to the appeal I have said several times and I will continue to speak to it is the result that the Ministry of Energy did not do its job and by the end of last year did not send an application to the European Commission to receive and be included in the capacity mechanism. This happened at the beginning of this year, gave the Commission reason to make us hurry with liberalisation as a condition for receiving this notification, and as you see every time something new comes up first, to bring out the non-bits, now to bring in that wholesale electricity will liberalise sales by 1 July 2021. And with all this, unfortunately, we do nothing but turn into the eyes of society the European Commission as a gendarme that should punish us because we are not doing our job. I do not believe that this creates pro-European moods in Bulgaria. And it is not the Bulgarian Socialist Party that creates these anti-European moods, if they exist, namely such mistakes and omissions of the government of the Republic of Bulgaria, which we then justify with the European Commission that we are taking certain measures that are wrong. Unfortunately, this practice continues. Moreover, the way in which it is written further that full wholesale liberalisation will take place by 1 July 2021, I am very worried that we have written it down with the clear awareness that maybe this will not happen or maybe then we will have another government of the state to think about what it will do on 1 July 2021. I am not convinced that this is the right approach when it comes to serious changes in the system of functioning of energy. I am not convinced that this is a serious attitude towards the requirements and European directives which we are obliged to transpose into Bulgarian legislation. And I am not convinced that with this mode of action we will improve the European Commission's trust in what we are doing. In this regard, unlike those things that we have supported, in terms of liberalisation so far, we will abstain. We will not vote against just and simply because this paragraph is really necessary, at least that is what the government says so that our coal plants can function, but we believe that the way it is done, the reasons we need, and especially the problems that the Ministry of Energy does not solve in time, do not give us reason to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u152	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line? Statements? Mr. Nikolov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u153	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! You're essentially absolutely right, Mr. Ermenkov. This text should, in principle, be accompanied by a single plan, to actually know how and how the wholesale market will operate after 1 July 2021. Is this a requirement of the European Commission? Basically, no one's forcing us to do it, which means they're not driving us around. We do not have any set dates, but in the end we cannot give State aid to those enterprises, which Mr. Ermenkov also said, coal plants, if we do not have full liberalisation of the wholesale market. However, total liberalisation of the wholesale market must happen when there is some consensus in society. In general, thank God, in this committee we are creating consensus and we are very much solving them on a piece of paper, but we see that we are reaching consensus even with the decision of the National Assembly, which we have achieved, in relation to the increase in the capital of TPP Maritza East 2 and that we need to achieve a mechanism for capacity for others and for this liberalisation. You can see that BSP and DPS colleagues are very helpful, including proposals. That is, we are looking for the way to this consensus so that Bulgaria's energy does not suffer, and it can really suffer from any decision of ours that has not been considered. Why is this text necessary? This text is, of course, necessary to show our intentions to the European Commission, because there is currently a diligent dialogue between the Ministry of Energy, the Electricity Operator, all the companies involved in this connection and, respectively, DG Energy and DG Competition to the European Commission, so that we can work out both the capacity mechanism that should enter from 1 July next year and liberalise the wholesale market accordingly. In fact, I read good news today, I will get to know you a little better, of course, with this, but in the Council of Ministers there was a meeting between the partners, we are talking about employers, trade unions and respectively the ministers and the prime minister in relation to the plan, which should take place months, perhaps a year later. First, to be able to help business in these difficult times, but also to prepare a plan that corresponds to this green deal and the money that the European Commission gives, which we are so talking about, and therefore to give perspective to the Marishka Basin. It is this plan that fills me with confidence that, by the end of the year, we are obliged to take steps together for market liberalisation and the rules under which the capacity mechanism will be operated, and we will do so. This text starts what we will do by the end of the year so that all who fall or are subject to changes in the Law and liberalisation can know what will happen, how it will happen. To enable the people of the Marishka Basin to know whether there will be a mechanism for capacity, this state support, and it will only happen when we make this liberalisation of the wholesale market. For now, at least two types of wholesale market liberalisation are being debated, but this is a subsequent issue which we will describe in the Law. Now that we have fallen into this state, we better write this text to the European Commission so that we can really move forward, and together. So there is no politics here anymore, and we really need to save what we can and give direction for future time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u154	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. The line, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u155	Mr. Nikolov, I completely agree that there must be a plan and that this cannot just write a date and expect that things will happen properly. But I would just like to draw attention to you, except that there must be a plan to highlight the steps in which this liberalisation of the wholesale electricity market will take place, we have been talking for over a year now that measures need to be taken to identify those so-called energy-vulnerable consumers who must have guaranteed access to electricity regardless of their income, because they are either poor or dependent on the need for electricity to maintain appliances that sustain their lives. So let us think in the direction together and together except how to liberalise the market, what to do for those socially vulnerable groups and health dependent on electricity, so that we know that there will be no dropouts and that everyone will be guaranteed the right to a decent life, regardless of their income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u156	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Another line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Nikolov? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 20 with a text on the Commission report. They voted 93 MPs: 73, none, 20 abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u157	Under § 7 there is a proposal of the MP Valentin Nikolov and a group of MPs: The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7, which shall become § 21: .................................................................. Paragraphs 3, 6, 8 and 13 shall apply from 1 October 2020 and § 4 concerning art. 38k shall apply within one month of the adoption of the decision under art. 38th, para. 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u158	So far, so much for stopping. Mr. Veselinov's suggestion is that we do not mix them.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u159	Yes, I wanted to propose a procedurally new § 22.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u160	We will then vote on Mr. Veselinov's proposal, and then you will be able to make a proposal to supplement the text. Colleagues, you have a say in this. I don't see anyone who wants to. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 7, which shall become § 21. They voted 93 MPs: 92, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u161	Proposal of the National Representative Iskren Veselinov. The Commission does not support the proposal. ................................................................................... For non-bit consumers who have not entered into a contract with an electricity supplier and coordinator of a free market balancing group until 10.09.2020, a quota random allocation will be made to licensed electricity traders with active standard balancing groups. § 9. The distribution of the business users under § 8 will be regulated in a special methodology prepared by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, which will reflect criteria relating to the serviced ITN and price.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u162	Please submit your proposal for an addition.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u163	I want a new § 22 to be created, which reads as follows: "The service shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal."
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u164	You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. There are no speeches. I put to the vote first the unsupported proposal of the MP Iskren Veselinov. They voted 93 MPs: 11 against 21, abstention 61. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal to create § 22 with a text which was presented by Mr. Nikolov. 90 MPs voted: 88, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next point of the program: FIRST VOICE OF THE COUNTERPARTY FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE PUBLIC PRESENTATION OF PRINCIPAL SECURITIES. Importer: Council of Ministers. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism Mrs. Saveklieva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u165	Mr. Chairman, I'd like to do a procedure first. On the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to be admitted to the Chamber: from the Ministry of Finance: Marinela Petrova Deputy Minister, Tsvetanka Mihailova Director of the Directorate of the Financial Markets Regulation and Hristina Penditcheva State Expert in the Directorate of the Financial Markets and Financial Supervision Commission: Maria Filipova Vice-President, Petya Dimitrova Director of the Directorate of Regulatory Investment Activities.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u166	Please vote on the proposal for admission to the Chamber. Vote 72 MPs: 68 against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u167	Thank you. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Offering of Securities, No 002-01-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 May 2020. At its regular meeting on 10 June 2020, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Offering of Securities. The draft, presented by the Deputy Minister of Finance Marinela Petrova, aims to introduce into the Bulgarian legislation measures implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/1129 on the prospectus to be published in the case of public offering or admission of securities to trading on a regulated market; facilitate access of small and medium-sized enterprises to finance through capital markets without being prevented by unnecessary costs while maintaining a high level of awareness and protection of investors in securities; improve regulation and investment environment, including remedy of deficiencies and identified practical problems in the implementation of the Law, and complete harmonisation of our legislation with European Union law. The new regulatory framework at European Union level imposes measures on the implementation of the regulation in several guidelines: 1. In all cases, the provision of securities and/or admission to trading on a regulated market requires the preparation and publication of a prospectus approved by the Financial Supervision Commission. 2. A prospectus shall not be required only in the cases referred to in Article 1 (4) of Regulation (EU) 2017/1129. In this respect, amendments to the Commercial Law are proposed specifying the applicability of art. 205 where the issue of non-available bonds falls within the exceptions to the obligation to publish a prospectus referred to in Article 1 (4) and (5) of the Regulation; 3. A threshold shall be introduced at national level below which the prospectus shall be replaced by a document of admission under the rules of a multilateral trading system, respectively from a public offering document. This threshold is the remaining equivalent of EUR 3 million, and the public offering of securities below that threshold, without a published prospectus, can only be carried out on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and is not subject to passport under Regulation (EU) 2017/1129. 4. As regards the requirement to designate a competent administrative authority by each Member State, the Financial Supervision Commission shall be designated as such by granting it the relevant regulatory and supervisory powers. 5. Changes to the fees collected by the Financial Supervision Commission under Section III of the tariff in Annex 1 under art. 27, para. 1 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act. In accordance with the Capital Market Development Strategy, fees for confirmation of a prospectus for public offering of securities will not be charged until 1 January 2021. In relation to identified deficiencies and problems in the practical implementation of the Law, amendments are proposed with the proposal for amendment and supplement in order to refine and improve existing provisions. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 100b, para. 4 of the Law provides that the decision on the implementation of changes in the conditions under which the bonds were issued, including the specific parameters of the bond issue, is not to have retroactive effect. An amendment is proposed in art. 100d, para. 3, by introducing a limit on the acquisition of up to 20 percent of the issue bonds where the bondholders' trust is also a bonder on the same bond issue. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 116c, para. 2 is intended to provide for the members of a management or control body of the public company to provide a guarantee of their management when acquiring the status of a public company. In order to increase investor interests, it is envisaged that the members of a management and control body of the public company for which the general assembly has determined a remuneration but has not determined the amount of the management guarantee, the amount of the management guarantee to be considered to be equal to the three-month gross remuneration of the persons. A requirement is also introduced to update the guarantee when changing the remuneration of the respective member of the management or control body of the company. Transitional and final provisions provide for amendments subject to European legislation. In the Financial Instruments Markets Act in art. 77 Three categories of persons are created to whom different requirements of knowledge and competence apply. A person offering financial instruments, investment consultant and broker of financial instruments are established. At the same time, the provision of surveillance services under certain conditions is permitted. A new article shall be created. 227c, which introduces a delegation for a Financial Supervision Commission Regulation. The Regulation will introduce additional requirements to be met by administrators of non-significant benchmarks in relation to the monitoring function under art. 5, the input data under art. 11, transparency of the methodology under art. 13 and the management and control requirements for contributors under art. 16 of Regulation (EU) 2016/1011. An amendment to the Insurance Code has also been proposed in order to ensure that the national component effectively mitigates the consequences of excessive bond spreads in the country concerned. An appropriate threshold for the country's risk-adjusted spread should be set for the activation of the national component and it is proposed to change from 100 to 85 basis points. Directive (EU) 2019/2177 introduces an obligation to enter into force this change with effect from 1 July 2020. Written opinions on the Bill with specific remarks on some of the texts were received by the Bulgarian Industrial Association, the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria, together with the Association of Directors for Relations with Investors in Bulgaria, the Confederation of Employers and Industrialists in Bulgaria and the Bulgarian Association of Licensed Investment Mediators. During the discussion, the people's representative Rumen Gechev asked whether there was sufficient administrative capacity for the Financial Supervision Commission to fulfil its obligations under this law and how the threshold of EUR 3 million for the public offering of securities below that threshold without a published prospectus was set, giving for example the thresholds in other Member States. After the presentation and discussion of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: 17 votes for the draft, without the opposition and 1 vote abstention. On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, in the first vote, a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Public Offering of Securities, No 002-01-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 May 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u168	Thank you, Mrs. Saveklieva. The Budget and Finance Committee is welcome.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u169	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Your attention: ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Budget and Finance on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Offering of Securities, No 002-01-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 May 2020. At a regular meeting held on 11 June 2020, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that bill. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Finance: Rositsa Velkova The bill was presented by Mrs. Rositsa Velkova. The proposed draft is intended to introduce measures for the implementation of Regulation (EU) 2017/1129 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 June 2017 on the prospectus to be published in the context of public offering or admission of securities to trading on a regulated market and repealing Directive 2003/87/EC and to improve national legislation in relation to identified deficiencies and problems in its practical application. The main points in the bill are: - A requirement is always introduced when offering securities and/or admission to trading on a regulated market to draw up and publish a prospectus to be approved by the Financial Supervision Commission. An exception to that rule is the cases referred to in Article 1 (4) of Regulation (EU) 2017/1129. - A threshold of EUR 3 million equivalent shall be introduced below which, in cases where a prospectus is required, the prospectus shall be replaced by a document of admission under the rules of the multilateral trading system, respectively, by a public offering document. The public offering of securities below that threshold without a published prospectus may be carried out only in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and shall not be subject to passport under Regulation (EU) 2017/1129. - In the case of a public offering of a securities issue of a total value less than the equivalent of EUR 3 million, without requiring admission to trading on a regulated market or multilateral trading system, the issuer shall, instead of a prospectus, draw up and publish a document for a public offering of light form and content. The bill proposes minimum content of the public offering document. - The Financial Supervision Commission is designated as a competent authority under art. 31 of Regulation (EU) 2017/1129 and the relevant regulatory and supervisory powers are conferred on it. - Administrative criminal provisions and other measures applicable under the circumstances referred to in Article 32 of Regulation (EU) 2017/1129 shall also be introduced in respect of persons responsible for infringements of the provisions of the Regulation. - Changes are proposed in the fees collected by the Financial Supervision Commission on the basis of art. 27, para. 1 under Section III of Annex 1 to the Financial Supervision Commission Act, in relation to the national measures introduced for the application of the requirements of Regulation (EU) 2017/1129. The Financial Supervision Commission shall not charge fees for the confirmation of a prospectus for the public offering of securities by 1 January 2021. - There are identified deficiencies and problems in the practical implementation of the Law on the Public Offering of Securities, proposing amendments in order to refine and improve the existing provisions. The proposed amendments aim to facilitate access by small and medium-sized enterprises to finance through capital markets. The measures provided for in the Bill are expected to develop small and medium-sized enterprises without being hindered by unnecessary costs, as business resources in the current difficult situation are focused on ensuring continuity of business. At the same time, a high level of information and protection of investors in securities is maintained. The application of the proposed amendments to the Law on the Public Offering of Securities is not related to additional costs, transfers and other payments. It is not expected to increase the cost of debtors, but, on the contrary, the easy access of small and medium-sized enterprises to capital markets will lead to a maximum reduction in their financing costs. Following the discussion of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: 17 votes for the draft, without the opposition and abstention. On the basis of the above, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, at the first vote, a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Public Offering of Securities, No 002-01-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 May 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u170	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Who will present the Committee on Legal Affairs Report? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u171	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I would like to present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Legal Affairs on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Offering of Securities, No 002-01-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 May 2020. At its meeting on 3 June 2020, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Offering of Securities, No 002-01-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 May 2020. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Finance: Mrs. Tsvetanka Mihaylova, Director of the Financial Market Regulation Directorate and Mrs. Hristina Penditcheva, State Expert at the Directorate of the Financial Markets and Mrs. Elena Petrova, Director of State Expert at the Directorate of the Financial Markets and by the Financial Supervision Commission: Mrs. Petya Dimitrova, Director of the Management of the Investment Activities Directorate, Mrs. Petya Hantova-Georgieva, Director of the Directorate of the Investment Activity, Mrs. Lydia Valchovska, Director of the Directorate of Legal Affairs, and Mrs. Milen Milev, Head of the Department of Normative Activity and Methodology. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mrs Mihailova, who indicated that the proposed draft in national law introduces measures for the implementation of Regulation (EU) 2017/1129 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 June 2017 on the prospectus to be published in the case of public offering or admission of securities to trading on a regulated market and repealing Directive 2003/87/EC (Regulation (EU) 2017/1129). Ms. Mihailova noted that the draft law improves the legal framework in relation to the preparation, approval and dissemination of the prospectus, which issuers, offerers and persons requesting admission to trading on a regulated market, published on the public offering of securities. A national exception to the obligation to publish a prospectus when offering securities publicly in order to allow for easier access to the capital market of smaller and emerging companies is introduced. Public offering of securities below the remaining equivalent of 3 million. EUR can be carried out without a prospectus published only in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and will not be subject to passport under the Regulation. The administrative burden is to be reduced by dropping the requirement to submit documents which are available in an official public register with free access. The terms and conditions of publication of a public offering message shall be facilitated, providing that the communication is to be published on the issuer's websites where the securities are offered by the issuer and the investment firms involved in the offer. An obligation to introduce procedures to enable employees of financial service providers to signal actual or potential infringements within the employer's undertaking in a special, independent and independent order shall be established. Administrative criminal provisions shall be improved by introducing certain specific disclosure requirements. The possibility to reverse changes in the conditions under which the bonds were issued, including their specific parameters, is removed and a limit on the acquisition of up to 20 per cent of the issue is introduced when the guarantors' confidant is also a bonder on the same issue. It is proposed that the disclosure obligations of the issuer be terminated by the decision of the C.F.R. for its discharge from the register, respectively with the entry into force of the decision declaring the issuer in bankruptcy. An obligation shall be established for the members of the management and control body of a company that has acquired the status of a public company to declare a conflict of interest and to provide guarantees for their management that will be updated upon any change in their remuneration. The amendments to the Financial Instruments Markets Act introduce certain requirements for investment consultants, brokers of financial instruments and persons who will offer financial instruments and specify administrative criminal provisions. The proposed amendments shall designate the Financial Supervision Commission as the competent administrative authority to which the relevant regulatory and supervisory powers in relation to Regulation (EU) 2017/1129 are conferred. The Financial Supervision Commission shall be given the opportunity to give consent to the information representing professional secrecy provided to bodies of a Member State and a third country carrying out financial supervision to be provided to foreign investigators and judicial authorities. The fees charged by the Financial Supervision Commission shall also be changed and fees shall not be charged for the approval of a prospectus for the public offering of securities until 1 January 2021. Changes are also proposed in the Commercial Act resulting from the change in the definition of public offering under Regulation (EU) 2017/1129. The proposed amendments to the Law on the Public Offering of Securities are not related to additional costs, transfers or other payments, and no increase is expected for debtors. Following the vote, the Committee on Legal Issues with 12 votes for........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-17.u172	Thank you, Mrs. Ilieva. My fellow Members, I am opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Second time: are there any who wish to speak? I won't. I'm closing the debate. We're going to vote. Anyone who agrees to adopt the proposed bill, please vote. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. The bill has been passed. Tomorrow, 18 June 2020, the regular plenary session is at 9.00. Due to the exhaustion of the agenda, I am closing the meeting, honourable Members. [[PHONE RINGING]]
