ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! [[PHONE RINGING]] There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Dear colleagues, as Minister Taneva will not be able to participate in parliamentary control on Friday due to an online meeting of the European Union's agricultural ministers, I propose that today we include Mrs Taneva's parliamentary control with the relevant 11 questions she has to answer. I will put this proposal to the vote. Please vote on the proposal to supplement today's parliamentary control with Ms. Taneva's participation in it. They voted 170 MPs: 151 against 1, abstention 18. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the first item of today's agenda: REPRESENTATIVES OF PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVES GEORGI JORDANOV, GEORGI MICHAILOV, ORIAN TIMCHEV, DEVOYSLAV TASAKOV, VALENTINA BYDAYN, IBAN IBRISHIMOV AND ANNA LAVOUR TO THE MINISTER OF THE HEALTH PROTECTION KIRYLANIUM ON THE STRATEGY OF THE TRUD AND THE FINANCIAL COMPENSATION OF THE BULGARIAN MEDICS. Members of parliament Georgi Yordanov and a group of MPs were answered at the meeting on 5 June 2020, Friday. At the next meeting 62 MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) submitted a proposal for a debate on the questioning, together with a draft decision. The debates are scheduled by the President of the National Assembly for the next parliamentary control meeting. At the parliamentary control meeting of 12 June 2020, Minister Kiril Ananiev was prevented from participating in it due to an urgent international commitment. The questions have been redirected to the next parliamentary control meeting and are included in the plenary agenda on 18 June 2020, Thursday. The proposal for debate on the inquiry and the draft decision were sent to the Members of the National Assembly in electronic form on 5 June 2020, Friday. Project for a decision to be voted on is introduced. The draft for a decision submitted by 62 MPs from the Parliamentary Group of the BSP for Bulgaria, No 054-00-39, from 05 June 2020, registered at 13.57 p.m. Colleagues, I give the floor to one of the importers to present the proposal for a debate and the draft decision. Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u2	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! More than three months have passed since the announcement of the emergency situation in Bulgaria in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic. This period is sufficient to analyse and re-evaluate the measures taken. Today, we want to discuss the treatment of medical professionals with regard to their working conditions, safeguards and incentive payments during the pandemic so far. We must immediately say that the medical community was put in a state of stress by an inexplicable decision for us. Probably frightened by information about the outbreak in China and Italy, the National Operations Headquarters made a very controversial proposal to the Minister of Health and he issued the order immediately. There is a strong reduction in access to hospital care and the actual exclusion of outpatient assistance from the complex of events concerning the reception, triage and treatment of sick, virus carriers or suspected of CIVID-19 without verified statistical data and refusal of testing, albeit the only appropriate method. As a result, a small number of carriers, with or without clinical symptoms, blocked Bulgaria's hospital system. Less than 200 patients with clinical symptoms seem to have been deliberately distributed by three, four in the largest hospital complexes in the capital The quarantine introduced also for medical professionals has further complicated the situation. Colleagues in hospitals in contact with a carrier have been quarantined at the hospital. During this quarantine, they worked 24 hours each because they were not excluded from the work schedule. They were deprived of contact with their families and finally paradoxically received a salary less than in the months before the pandemic. What do we think should have been done and what should not have been done? First of all, general practitioners should not have been recommended to discontinue their intake and contact patients on the phone alone. A sufficient amount of personal protective equipment and additional funding had to be provided for colleagues from outside the hospital. The monitoring of individuals in quarantine and the treatment of carriers with mild or moderate clinical symptoms could have been carried out in their home. It was not by quantitative criteria that medical staff in hospitals should be divided into one on the first line to be financially stimulated and one who spends his time in idleness because due to the restrictive reception there were not enough patients. The amounts paid out s 1000 BGN. a medical professional involved in the course of the pandemic, according to the Ministry of Health caused numerous disputes, quarrels and discontent in hospitals and among their staff. The population should not have been put in a state of intense stress due to daily morning or sometimes late evening reporting of statistics that could easily be obtained on the Internet. It was never clear why hospital beds were deployed in large sports halls according to a scheme suitable for a flood or earthquake situation, but not for medical treatment. Just had to do the maximum to ensure insufficient protective masks, helmets, gloves and protective clothing. The piercing made by incompetent manufacturers without appropriate medical certification led in some cases to comic situations. The adopted National Plan of Conduct in an epidemic influenza situation should be respected and the possibilities of nearly a thousand available infectious beds in the country should be used as much as possible. A second expert group should not have been set up, but should have used the opportunities of the National Expert Specialized Councils of the Ministry of Health in the relevant specialities............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Separately, we want to raise the issue of the financial situation of the Bulgarian hospitals during the epidemic, because it is in direct connection with the funds for the Fund. As I have already said, their activities were severely limited by the Minister of Health's order. As a result, the number of patients admitted in them moved between 20 to 50% of those received in the months before the pandemic, and this had a negative impact on their financial revenues. We had long to convince ourselves together with the Bulgarian Medical Union and the Bulgarian Dental Union to understand and do something in the Ministry of Health, in the National Health Insurance Fund and in the Parliamentary Health Commission. As a result, the National Health Insurance Fund and the medical institutions signed an annex to providing the medical institutions with 85% of their funds paid in the months before the emergency. However, these anexes are not regulated in time. The funds paid by the National Health Insurance Fund according to the interpretations should be returned in the coming months under a scheme. If this were to happen, it would lead to an acute financial deficit and practical bankruptcy of the majority of Bulgarian hospitals regardless of their property. Recently, we are subject to numerous calls from colleagues from hospitals across the country, who say that de facto the return of these 85% to the Health Insurance Fund will lead them to bankruptcy and to their cessation in order not to do so, we have proposed a legal addition to the Health Insurance Fund Budget Act for this year and we hope it will be adopted. Honourable Members, we would like to convince you, in accordance with the foregoing, that it is only with the clapping of evening time that is not working and that we would like to propose that we take the following decisions. First, within three months, the Minister of Health will prepare and submit to the Council of Ministers a proposal for legal changes to regulate working conditions and financial support for medical professionals and medical institutions in the event of an emergency epidemic situation. Within six months, the Minister of Health shall review the activities of the infectious wards in the country and prepare a plan for increased effectiveness in declaring an emergency epidemic situation. Colleagues, the situation in countries outside Bulgaria, in China, shows that we will probably be witnessing a long-term situation in which we should exist together with the COVID-19 virus. I therefore think that we should, in our experience, identify a plan of action and measures that allow us to deal with it as effectively as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u3	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Colleagues, I'll read you the time distribution. In connection with the application of art. 105, para. 2 of the Rules for the Organization and Activities of the National Assembly, the parliamentary group of GERB has 20 minutes, the Bulgarian Parliamentary Group You have the floor to speak. Here you go, guys. Here you go, Mr. Timchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! The theme of CO-viral infection has occupied the world for more than half a year, and in our country more than four months. The pandemic has put the health systems of the various countries in the world to the test and has not passed ours. This gave the opportunity to shed light on the problems of our health system. They were the fastest and brightest in the emergency system, which had to deal with them in an emergency order and on the move. We can define them as organizational, personnel and financial. In organizational terms, he found the system unprepared and unarmed with elementary protective equipment. That's why the first infected medical workers were in the emergency system. They gave the first victims. The infected were taken into quarantine for 14 days, the patients after healing for 28 more days, and in their place there was no one to stand. This put the system to the test for a long time the employees closed for 24 hours for disinfection, during which time the emergency cases were taken by other affiliates and in the absence of testing of much of the workers in the emergency care centers, which caused a wave of discontent among them. Some of the dissatisfied quit their jobs and asked for additional remuneration. Mr. Minister, I think you were also stressed by the Prime Minister's statement that all those working in the first line system will receive a thousand leva extra for their work. This has somewhat reassured those working in the system, but after a few days, after your statement that you have developed criteria for which you will receive from these bonuses, and one of them is the 12-hour contact with a patient with a coronavirus, automatically shut down the people working on the first line, and those in emergency care. Some have yet received from the so-called bonuses on a list, but under what conditions and criteria I do not know. In a state of emergency, you worked on the principle of sample error. And although you claimed that this was the best, we have repeatedly stated that we do not approve of this style and method of work. Dear Minister, I'm not telling you these facts to pick on you. The point of today's debate is another one to tell each other the mistakes and omissions made, to learn the lessons from our actions. Life after the CO-viral pandemic will not be the same, but life will continue and we must learn to live with the COVID-19. Therefore, in addition to modern and modern equipment and a new fleet, projects that you boast about so much in the forthcoming and next budget should be put in place means of elementary protection: masks, gloves, protective clothing and protective helmets and disinfectants for about seven thousand army of medical professionals and medical workers from the emergency care system, which is funded by the state and is part of our national security. Develop a system by which you will supply regular emergency medical care centres with the necessary protective equipment and fill in the state reserve! Finally, in order to understand you and the noisy room, I will tell you a case in the history of emergency medical care. There is a call at one of the emergency medical centers for an accident that occurred in a mine and injured gassed miners. Three E.R. teams are heading for that mine. Two of the teams died because they didn't have gas masks. Only the third team managed to save the possible rescue patients and victims. So let us protect the lives and health of medical workers from the emergency medical care system in order to save people's lives and health! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Timchev. - What's the line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u6	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, honourable colleagues! Dr. Timchev, in your statement, as well as many times in recent months, we have found that with protective equipment neither emergency medical centers, specialists, hospitals or personal doctors, no one was provided and there was no readiness. It also became clear that the money that we promised as a state and as the Ministry of People who struggle on the front line or are in contact with the crown sick did not receive it, and some of them also came out in the media. We know of ridiculous writings that they received a banana as a reward. But from your statement, Dr. Timchev, it didn't make any sense to me what you mean by the fact that organizationally unprepared we were caught by the coronavirus in the emergency medical care system.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u7	Thank you, dear Mrs. Slavova. Second line? I can't see. Mr. Timchev, come on in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Mrs. Slavova, in modern society, it is the organization that is the engine of good practices, and a society that has an organization that develops and develops. The relations between emergency care and hospitals in Bulgaria are regulated in a regulation and it is said that the branches of emergency medical care revealed on the territory of the hospitals use all the equipment and the medical staff of the hospitals and the provision of this emergency care is at the expense of the hospital. The commercial status of hospitals in some ways allows them to change these rules and criteria and to invent, as in the case of the epidemic, the emergency patients and the other chronic patients to enter with a preliminary PCR test. This creates tension in the system, allows hospitals to football patients and people working in the emergency care system to wonder which hospital to accommodate both chronically ill and emergency patients. That's what I want to answer your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Timchev. Colleagues, we are continuing with our speeches. You have the floor. Mrs. Jaffer, come in, Mr. Mihailov gives you his turn.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u10	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! The unprecedented crisis associated with the COVID-19 has tested numerous systems, and not only in our country. The challenge was scientific, medical, but also economic, there were social dimensions and financial. If conclusions could be drawn from the development of this pandemic to date, they would be as follows: First of all, Mr. Minister, there are no more important and minor specialties in medical science. Underrated specialists in infectious diseases and epidemiology have proved to be some of the most important specialists in recent months. Secondly, there are no less important and more important hospitals. It turned out that not only are the medical establishments located on the yellow pavement in Sofia, or at least they are as important as those in Vidin, in Yambol, in Sliven and in many other cities on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. Therefore, in relation to the wording of the debate by BSP colleagues, I would like to comment on a few things today: safety of working conditions, something that has also been underestimated over the past decade; nosocomial infections for which there were previously plans for hospitals to protect themselves from them. There were epidemiologists who dealt with anti-epidemic measures in hospitals, and turned out to be extremely low-paid or missing plans. Next, the precautions to be used under all conditions of work and contact with the patient have proved to be extremely underestimated as a tool to combat nosocomial infections. It turned out that in a critical situation, in order to control especially at the beginning of the pandemic, this situation had to be reacted, almost to a fire to seek quantities left somewhere on the reserve, notice, since 1984, or to import from third countries that also had problems and could not provide the necessary quantities. That is why here I join the call of BSP colleagues that the state should analyse the situation. For me, it is a nonsense infectious hospital not to be able to react and take over patients, to be allocated to multiple medical institutions, which then prove critical because the staff were also infected with the CIVID-19 and the actual treatment process excluded entire units from these hospitals. As for the financial motivation of the people who were on the front line, there is still much to be refined there, Mr. Minister. It turns out that the teams, the people who worked on the front line, for example, from RZI, did not receive their repeatedly promised additional funds. They received one amount for March, April, May, June do not have such funds. Most of them are already positive for the COVID-19 because they were really on the front front. They're the people who quarantine, check, take the tests, and they really need to be on the field every day. Here are the questions that are worth analyzing, and today in the course of this debate, I expect answers to some of these questions that are being asked. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u11	Thank you, dear Mrs. Jaffer. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Mr. Mikhailov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u12	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! It is quite depressing for me to see the half-empty room against a debate that concerns an issue that we have not faced in the last 50 years. I don't know why that is. I do not know what the responsibility of the Bulgarian Parliament is, but I cannot be disappointed I suppose you too, of the so-called interest in a problem that has been at the heart of the world's attention over the past two months. I'm not going into small matters because they're really small, for the financial compensation of this or that medical facility, for where there was, where there was no protection. The conclusions have been made, the actions have been taken, what has happened is yet to be fully analysed. But I would like to look at the issue of managing the system at difficult times from a general point of view from which BSP looks at and presents to you during your entire management and your predecessor for the last three and a half years. Three and a half years the Bulgarian Socialist Party reminds you, Dear Minister, and you, in the first months when you were still enthusiastic like any young minister, said: yes, the system is sick here, from this tribune, changes need to be made. We are already on your third year, there are no changes, but this crisis is now a health crisis, economic crisis, psychological crisis, social crisis, here colleagues have very well outlined its different parameters, put the absolute nonsense health system to be managed through slots from clinical pathways, through turnover as a restaurant, as a shop, as a trade chain. Because these two months have put the health system without absolutely no income in the way it is financed legally, and it was proposed, I don't know by whom, I don't know on what basis, the figure 85%. I have deliberately ironized in the media why it is 85, why it is not 86, 83, and on top of that, this afternoon we will look at with our colleagues from the Health Commission our legislative proposal, as it turns out that under the laws of the Republic of Bulgaria the Health Insurance Fund can now require some of these funds, for they are not used according to the rules that are for the management of the health system. And I would like to ask: after the Bulgarian hospitals, the truth is that the system was not overloaded, it was emptied of content these two months, Mr. Minister, the figures that it presents every day before the headquarters, now the National Statistical Institute, are incompared with the capabilities of the Bulgarian healthcare system. But the health system lost a lot, lost the workers in it, lost the Bulgarian patients because they were delayed whole diagnostic sequences: cancers, vascular diseases, cardiovascular diseases, autoimmune diseases, diagnosis, timely start of treatment. And all of this with this financial management system makes us think and offer it to you that it is high time, even at the end of this term, repeating the same mantras, that e-health will finally come, that there will finally be some reform to start at least one conversation. You're an extremely prepared economist. Problems are largely also economic, of course, but also medical, but also social. And this discussion, which was supposed to happen here, I do not know if it will happen at all, as colleagues from GERB are mostly watching in smartphones and waiting for the time to run out to finish it. It should have really guided us here in this room, which BSP has been proposing for a long time now, to an ongoing discussion on the problems of the management of the health system. Thank you, Madam President. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u13	Thank you, Mr. Mihailov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u14	Madam President, honourable Members! It is clear that on this subject we can talk infinitely much, as is clear and that from now on there are infinitely many conversations ahead, however, we are currently discussing a draft decision submitted by BSP colleagues, which represents two points, and at first point you wish the Ministry and the Minister of Health to draw up legal changes to regulate the working conditions and financial support for medical professionals and medical institutions in the event of an emergency epidemic situation. I'm reading it on purpose because what does that mean? Let's do a little analysis. You want to create a line of work in an emergency environment in an emergency environment. So order and emergency are two mutually exclusive concepts. This in the Bulgarian language is called oxymoron, as is terribly beautiful and so on. This is an emergency! So there may be principles for working under certain exceptional conditions, such as the principles of work that are sufficiently known to all doctors, in an epidemiological hazard zone, a biological infection zone or any other such emergency situation, but an order in an emergency situation simply cannot be found. These are principles that every doctor knows. Isn't that why we study medicine for six years and then everyone takes some specialty; isn't that why medical professionals who have this education are different from people who are not medical professionals, and that's why other people are informed by hoping that medical professionals are competent to respond?! And you now want the Minister to make legal changes to regulation?! I won't use the word that comes to mind, but at least it's too much. In this sense, right, the strict restrictive measures to which you generally had resistance are part of the anti-epidemic events, thanks to which we have and continue to have a relatively low incidence of morbidity and viral transmission! And that's exactly why we didn't load our health care system. Colleagues have just spoken that the capacity of our health system has remained incomplete. Of course it is incomplete, because in every country, if you think about it, in such an environment, the planning reception and the planned treatment are stopped. But speaking of planning treatment, we also need to make a distinction as to what planary treatment means, what emergency treatment means, and what emergency treatment means. Cancer treatment is an urgent treatment, and it has not stopped, as has been said, that treatment has almost been stopped in oncology facilities. It hasn't stopped, I can tell you from the first point of view, from the first person. Cancer treatment is when a patient is prepared for surgery. You know, I don't need to go into details, but in general, when you're prepared for surgical treatment, it can happen so that this guy gets six months of chemotherapy, radiation therapy, and needs to be operated within 10 days. There's no way to stop this and it hasn't been stopped. I don't know why you're saying there were times like this when you stopped something that was necessary. Yes, very often in hospitals at first there was a lack of personal protective equipment. Well, there was a lack of it everywhere. Who would have thought such a large number of protective equipment would be needed? Such gaps were found in the most developed healthcare systems in the most developed countries. Think about what we've seen on the news and in the media. So this cannot be blamed on the Bulgarian system because we almost didn't predict or the Ministry didn't predict to provide myself with what amount of protective equipment, because, you see, there will be such an epidemiological situation. Well, it's reacting right now. Nobody said there were protective equipment somewhere that were kept in reserve and not released to hospitals. Was there anything like that? There wasn't. About financial support. I agree here personally, and if there is any opportunity to support this draft decision, it will be in this particular part because I agree and I am sure that there is no doctor who does not wish the amount of financial support, as you say, this payment is not of the highest degree possible. Personally, I do not agree with the word "assisting." This is an additional payment for additional work, it cannot be assistance. About the amount of this extra charge. In the end, it all depends on the state's capabilities at this time. Either way, it's a fact. When it became clear that we were going to have this debate, I, for example, informed myself of the hospital in Shumen, in no way had there been any problem with this payment. In point two, you wish the Health Minister to prepare a plan for increased effectiveness in declaring an emergency epidemic situation. In this way, personally formulated to me, this desire is very vague. The amount of efficiency at worst shows the ratio of the result achieved to the target. I think that we should agree with this, all of us, that efficiency shows the appropriateness of the actions, that is, are the right things done to achieve the goal? What's the purpose here? The goal is to heal the sick. In this way translated, what is the purpose? We're formulating your point again. What does it mean that the health minister should prepare a plan for better treatment of patients in such an environment, i.e. a plan how should doctors treat better?! Personally, I can't imagine what such a plan would look like, but it also means automatically that if we are not in this environment, doctors do not treat as effectively because in such an environment they need to treat more effectively. You have, I suppose, heard that from our parliamentary group there is a colleague who voluntarily went to work on the front line because his specialty was very sought after during this period. He can now, if he wants, share his view of this period and of its impressions. But if we go back to the effectiveness or inefficiency of treatment in different settings, it is absolutely uncooperative to all our colleagues and, secondly, it is not serious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. Replices, coworkers? I can't see. Here you are, Mr. Ademov, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The unprecedented COVID-19 crisis found health systems all over Europe, and why not worldwide, unprepared, unprepared, unprepared in terms of dealing with a serious challenge that requires specific personnel, specific human, specific resources that are related to specific equipment, if you will, with additional financial resources. Why am I saying this? Because the Bulgarian health system is no exception to what happened in Europe and in the world. The Bulgarian government reacted with one financial resource of 500 million. Dear Minister, we are still waiting for the public report on how these funds were spent because this was the beginning, this was the basis on which the health system in Bulgaria relied on financial support. The systemic health problems in Bulgaria have shown particular importance in terms of human resources, as regards working conditions, to mobilization of individual healthcare systems. After 2000 a number of governments exercised on the topic of health reform, anyway, this reform did not happen and if I could use this word, the disability of Bulgarian healthcare appeared particularly clearly in the slumber of this crisis, in other words: in human and personnel potential. The rapid restructuring of human resources, the rapid provision of personal protective equipment gave the health care system a breath of air to cope with the challenge. But the main thing that we need from now on, based on a serious analysis after this crisis, is to do everything possible to solve the problem of human resources, and not only in the most important areas of Bulgarian healthcare, but in all spheres, because it turned out that a specialty such as Therefore, my request is: on the basis of this analysis, to take decisive measures so that the Bulgarian health care system can be even more prepared, not to be surprised, as it was now, so that Bulgarian citizens may feel at ease that there is a system that can protect their health. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Last but not least, I would like to say that, Madam President, despite the difficult situation, despite the difficulties the Bulgarian healthcare system has faced with the challenges that were ahead of it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Ademov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches, colleagues? Here you go, Mr. Taskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u18	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! The previously spoken colleague from GERB commented that order and emergency are incompatible concepts. I do not agree when we talk that it is our proposals that aim to have some order in the action and in the work of the system, more like prevention of an emergency situation and chaos. That's the problem with not being like this. Ten days ago, we spoke from the parliamentary group again with the minister. He was very hopeful of the opportunities we will have for restructuring the health system precisely with European solidarity, with our opportunities. Once again, I would like to ask: what will happen, what measures are envisaged, what new opportunities to be ready for action in such a situation, for the health system to be operational and not blocked? In this regard, I again take up the issue of infectious clinics and wards in Bulgaria: Is there a change in the funding of these wards? We have to get used to having a problem that can be long-term and we can't put a time limit on it. Will there be any possibility of a different funding for these infectious wards, as it was a long time ago, to think about them becoming a little bit more, how to say, to guarantee their financing and thus to ensure their existence? Because I see that at the moment the low values with which the clinical pathways are funded are simply not liked by the system. We have seen that they exist in certain places that are not even. [[Heckling]] Do we work on them, like we did with psychiatrists? This would really lead them to be in a much more guaranteeed distribution on the territory of Bulgaria and to have a real opportunity to react. And I say again: to be able to work, not to block the entire health system, and hence the health of the nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Taskov. - What's the line? Here's a line for you, Mr. Ibrishimov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, colleagues! Dear Mr. Taskov, you are absolutely right, and your question is, of course, correct, but you forgot to tell us about the dozens of signals that we received from managers of diagnostic consulting centres and dental offices, through which no patient has passed, and these hospitals will not receive the 85% promised. They didn't work, yes, they didn't work, but it's not fair. They didn't work because they closed, didn't use this measure 60/40, didn't release their workers and nurses and labs. They didn't work because there was a panic in patients, and you all know very well that there was an effusion of patients from hospitals not just because there were restrictions on the minister, but just because there was fear in people to visit these hospitals. Mr. Minister, that's not fair. If a hospital, such as a dental office or a DCS goes through a patient, will receive 85% if not one of them passes. It's a very thin line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u21	Line, please! A line to the colleague, not to the minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u22	Correct this injustice and do not create a sense in society and in the sense that there are close to the authority hospitals who have been warned to release one patient, and those who did not know there would be such a measure and remain without funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u23	I couldn't figure out the line to Mr. Taskov. You mostly spoke to the Minister. Second line? I can't see. Mr. Taskov! There's not gonna be a duvet. Come in, Mr. Tonchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u24	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! After the announcement of the state of emergency on 13 March, I volunteered at one of the hospitals appointed by your order to treat patients with Covid-19, and I can share with you immediate impressions of the medical aspect of the crisis. Initially, there was a lack of protection. As my esteemed doctor Ademov mentioned, no health system in the world, including the richest European countries and the world's, but this shortage in Bulgaria was specifically controlled relatively quickly. Thanks to the actions of the National Operational Headquarters, of the National Logistics Headquarters, the government was quickly organized the production of protective equipment, including multiple suits of the highest class, which took place in a timely manner in medical facilities. Here is the place to mark the role of municipalities, these silent heroes in the fight against the COVID virus, which have made a great effort to secure the material health care facilities. I can't help but thank the numerous donors, anonymous or not, who, in the form of money and equipment, helped the system. And despite these initial insufficient supplies of supplies, I would like to point out that no medical examiner from our medical establishment, probably from the majority of the country, did not abdicate, remained at his place of employment and fulfilled his duty. Gradually, things have also worked out in our Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment, Razlog City, started the reception, treatment of patients, and to date I can share that we have nearly 30 cured. Furthermore, I would like to assure you that with regard to the additional financial incentives all medical professionals from our medical facility who participated in the treatment, follow-up, diagnostics have received their additional financial incentives under the clearly defined rules of the Ministry. Finally, I would point out that I would support all the additional support and stabilisation measures in order to work even more effectively from now on. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Tonchev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u26	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I will begin my speech, first of all, with great gratitude to all medical personnel who participated in the still ongoing medical crisis, to all doctors, nurses, nurses, all laboratories and all who directly or indirectly participated in the fight against COVID-19. I would like to express my gratitude to the Operations Headquarters, which worked 24 hours a day at the RZI, which also spared no energy, no nerves, so that they could master this unheard crisis throughout the world, this epidemic, which actually came as a thunderbolt for absolutely all systems. I would like to say here, from the high tribune, that the healthcare system in Bulgaria has been criticised extremely many of all directions, but I believe that in such a crisis period, at such a critical time, a system is best tested how it works. We have heard the overrated English, Danish, Swedish, Scandinavian, in all developed Western European countries how we praise them here and how we pour ashes on our head, but I think the time has come to say that our system has passed the test, the great test and the challenge to fight the coronavirus. I also want to share something here in front of you, I think it wasn't accentuated enough, and that is that in this crisis our system managed to contain itself, managed to organize itself. Moreover, the state took measures to come out of the shortage and the deficit of protection by doing and organizing its own production of both protective equipment, and we started producing at that time the proven preparation for the treatment of COVID-19. Moreover, the Ministry of Health should not be criticised here either. I think they also managed to create a good organization for everyone so that the system could endure. Whatever we are talking about here, the weather and the organization have shown that with our doctors the system has managed to contain precisely this epidemic in Bulgaria in size, as we have seen in developed countries, for example, we have all seen what is happening in Sweden. I think that our scientists should also be grateful for the challenge. As far as financial remuneration is concerned, what I have as information is that all the RGIs they filed, right here is the Minister, the lists for the people who were working with the infected by the COVID-19, to all the absolute remuneration has been paid. Here, I open a large clamp, I think that we all, the whole society, are in debt to the people who work with white aprons and take care of the health and tranquility of our citizens. I will quote once again an old English proverb that says: "The economy is the mirror of a country's financial system. That is, we should all be aware of what funds, what our budget is and what can be allocated to our health workers, as was once said. I would like to say that the time has not yet come to account for how we have dealt with COVID-19, as the crisis is not yet over, but to date we can be proud of what we have achieved in the fight against COVID-19. You can see that far more developed countries from Bulgaria in the economic aspect were placed on their knees. We must not hide the fact that all of us here can see in the media that people in Western European countries are left behind, not accepted. There are people who are also left to be treated alone at home and died in their homes. Bulgarian citizens have been rejected and have not been accepted in European countries, have not been accepted for treatment and have sent them away to be treated in Bulgaria. We have enough information on this matter. I could talk for hours. I would like to say the following that we must give what we deserve to all who have managed to organize and fight this unheard and untrained epidemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. A line? There won't be. Any other speeches, colleagues? Here you are, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Conscious of the importance of today's hearing, the analysis we need, and this to be useful within the framework of the crisis that is still around us, I propose a small revision of the draft decision by BSP colleagues so that it can really be in line with the regulations, namely: Point 1 to be edited as follows: The Minister of Health shall, within three months, prepare and submit to the Committee on Health Action Plan for the organisation of the work and financing of the medical institutions in the event of an emergency epidemic situation. Point 2 to be edited as follows: "In up to 6 months the Minister of Health shall carry out and submit to the Commission an analysis of the activities of the infectious wards, clinics and hospitals in the Republic of Bulgaria and shall draw up a plan for its effective functioning in the event of an emergency epidemic situation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u29	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? Here you are, Mrs. Slavova. Two minutes and forty seconds have BSP.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u30	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, colleagues! We will agree with the corrections made by you to the draft decision. In fact, what you are proposing is not legislative changes to be made, but to adopt an action plan for the organisation of work and financing of medical institutions. What we are calling on you and we hope that you will comply with and use is the National Plan, which has already had Bulgaria ready for influenza epidemics since 2006, and that this will be discussed in the Committee on Health, which we are members of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u31	Thank you, dear Mrs. Slavova. Any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! At the outset, I would like to thank all the MPs who have spoken about the two topics which are the subject of the draft decision. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u33	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u34	I accept this responsibility and I will implement the decision that you will vote on today and will present everything that is written down as a requirement in this decision. The emergency epidemic environment has put to the test all health systems throughout the world, of course, including our system. I would like to say immediately that after the initial difficulties we had in the first weeks, we found the necessary organisation, the necessary actions, the necessary steps that we had to take to ensure the normal functioning of the health system in the situation of COVID-19. You know what measures we have taken with regard to the precautions, with regard to the equipment and equipment that was needed for the wards in which people carrying the COVID-19 virus are treated, for all the care that had to be provided to the medical facilities in order to be able to function normally. In the same situation were the other countries in the world. I would like to share with you that, in the original version of the new financial framework of the European Commission 2021, 2027 it was envisaged that there would be no separate programme for health. I would also mention that for the last planning period, the entire resource that was allocated to health was about 400 million. Euros. The epidemic, which found the whole world unprepared, and the problems that are facing all health systems around the world, has led the European Commission to change its decision, and we will preserve our program in terms of 9 billion. 400 million. EUR 400 billion. EUR 9 billion 400 million. Euros. You can see how huge growth is foreseen for the next health plan period. [[Noise and lines.]] Questions were also raised about the 500 million. BGN, which are intended to deal with the individual consequences of the crisis in our country. Of that 500 million. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. are for healthcare, of which 60 million. lv. Are... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u35	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u36	...under Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" where we use the resources to finance medical and non-medical personnel on the first line and the remaining 40 million. lv. are under Operational Programme "Regions in Growth" and there are provided funds for the purchase of protective materials, equipment, equipment that is necessary, and also tests that are necessary for the healing process. On June 5 I had the opportunity to analyze the spending of these funds, as well as the donations received by the Ministry of Health, and the DMS account we found about the directions in which we made the relevant costs and provided the medical facilities with the necessary protective equipment. The question was that hospitals are almost managed as a restaurant. Excuse me, however, in this situation we are in, we made a meeting with the Bulgarian Medical Union and the Bulgarian Dental Union and the methodology that was approved was approved jointly. It is indeed a very important tool to enable medical institutions to manage to preserve their administrative capacity and financial resources, which is necessary to cover the other costs that the medical institutions have. Remember that these hospitals that have an activity higher than 85% receive the resource that they have earned during this period, that is, this is not the ceiling that must be respected. Where more work is done, of course you will get those funds that have been earned. Moreover, once again I say it and last time I said it: no funds will be returned, no compensation will be made. This is an emergency epidemic situation in which the state reacts in an adequate way to protect its medical and non-medical personnel in order to preserve hospitals, because they must once again assume all other functions, all other treatments, all other problems that may occur in the autumn. We had to take these steps. In fact, I will share with you, as we know that summer is a period that has less activity for hospitals, and we are also aware that the recovery of the reception is a much slower process and it is not a matter of.. We stop the emergency epidemic situation and from tomorrow everything is fine and the reception is the same as before. We understand that this is not the case, but this process will continue for a longer period of time and we intend to propose the It was mentioned that regional health inspections did not receive their funds. Dr. Jaffer, I understand that not everyone should know the whole regulation. Officials in regional health inspections are civil servants, they receive their additional remuneration quarterly. They're due every month, but they're paid quarterly. In July, they will receive their additional remuneration for the previous three months - both the additional material incentive provided for civil servants and 1000 BGN, which are provided for as work in such difficult conditions. Finally, I would like to say that we really need to bow our heads and thank the medical and non-medical staff in all the medical institutions that have put their hard work into risking their health, who have done everything they can to help the Bulgarian citizens who have been in trouble and who have been infected with this coronavirus. I would also like to thank all the state institutions involved in this process. These are regional health inspections, this is the National Center for Infectious and Parasitic Diseases, this is Emergency Aid. And thanks to all the volunteers who joined this battle, I'd say, with a COVID-19. They really showed that in an emergency situation the Bulgarian people can be united and we can go with success to achieve what we are looking for, and what we are looking for right now is very important the health of the Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u37	Thank you, dear Minister. Colleagues, we're going to vote on the draft decision. First, I will put to the vote the editorial amendment made by Dr. Daritkova. They voted 152 MPs: for 152, against and abstention there is no. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The motion is accepted. I am now putting the draft decision to a full vote, along with the editorial amendment that was adopted just now. They voted 161 MPs: for 161, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. It's a decision worthy of applause, fellow Members. [[Applause.]] Thank you, everyone. We are going to answer a question to Minister Ananiev from the MPs Krum Zarkov, Georgi Stoilov and Desislav Taskov about refusing to pay additional remuneration for work on the first line in the fight against COVID-19 for specialists from the Complex Oncological Center of Ruse. Please, Mr. Taskov, ask the Minister the question. [[People's representatives stand and others leave the Chamber.]] Colleagues, please take your seats or leave the room. Make sure there's no movement in the room. Here you go, Mr. Taskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u38	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, with your order of February 25, 2020... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u39	Wait. Colleagues, please, let's get this room in order. We're waiting for the room to calm down a little bit, for the coworkers to take their seats. Mr. Ivanov, Mr. Pawnov, Mr. Ermenkov, I can't see the colleague who he is, please take your seats! Mr. Lazarov, Mr. Rashidov, please take some of the seats in the Chamber so that we can continue with parliamentary control. Mr. Lazarov can't hear me. Here you go, Mr. Taskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u40	Dear Minister, by your order of 25 February 2020, issued in connection with the World Health Organisation's public health emergency of international importance with regard to COVID-19, you are revealing temporary border control units at border crossing points, including the Danube Bridge. A working meeting is held at the Regional Health Inspectorate on 26 February 2020, discussing the organisation of 24-hour missions at the Border Control Post. The same should be borne by employees of RZI, but also by other units, including the complex oncological center of Ruse. As a result, by order of the manager of the Centre, six specialists from the Oncology Centre in Ruse were appointed to watch the Border Control Post It is clear from correspondence between the manager of the Oncological Centre Ruse and the ministry in charge that the six specialists who provided the necessary duty can not receive additional remuneration for first-line work in the fight against COVID-19, as the administrative structure for which they are working does not enter the target group under the Project Support of workers in the healthcare system under conditions of threat to public health by COVID-19. In this way, the employees of the CDC Ruse who have done their duty conscientiously in accordance with your order and according to the organization that is composed of the RZI in charge of you, and who have been exposed to the same risk as their colleagues from the other units, are unjustly wronged by refusing to pay them additional remuneration. In this regard, my question to you is: what are the opportunities of the Ministry of Health to provide additional remuneration for these six from the Complex Oncological Centre.. Ruse, who were on duty at the border checkpoint..Danube Bridge................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Dear Minister, we are really only talking about six Bulgarian doctors, but your decision on this case will show us the attitude towards each of the Bulgarian doctors.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u41	Thank you, dear Mr. Taskov. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u42	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Zarkov, Mr. Stoilov, Mr. Taskov! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll be very brief. This is one of the very few cases where a failure related to volunteers has been admitted to perform the functions assigned to regional health inspections. I can assure you that there is a mechanism and we will provide the remuneration of these six of our colleagues from the Complex Oncological Center. They will understand it very soon and I think they will be pleased that they have done really important and responsible work during this period.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u43	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u44	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, I will also be very brief because, as far as I understand from your words, you will take the necessary measures and this is indeed the right decision. Thank you for this reaction and we will monitor its performance. I draw attention to the fact that in your statement on the previous point you said to bow our heads and thank the doctors. We're joining this appeal. You expressed your gratitude to all state institutions and volunteers. We also join this appeal, but this gratitude, whenever and wherever possible, must have its dimension. Therefore, I draw your attention to the fact that, for example, in Ruse at the border crossing, a Danube bridge in the different difficult tasks to take into account also included medical specialists from health offices of children's institutions and others who are municipal employees, who should also be paid attention. In a city like Ruse we are talking about 8 such people, 6 people are from the center we talked about, that is 13 people who were on the same front line we are talking about, and who, God forbid, if this happens again, we will look again. Therefore, please also pay attention to them as far as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u45	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Mr. Minister, the doppelganger? You won't use it. That concludes the questions to Minister Ananiev. Thank you for your participation today, Mr. Minister. Dear colleagues, Minister Avramova is already with us on issues from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. Dear Minister, please provide information regarding the construction in the Aleppu area as a stage, procedures and permits. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In relation to the issues concerning the construction in Aleppu locality, I will provide you with the facts and data with which the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works has and which are within its competence. A check was carried out on 4 June 2020 by the Supreme Administrative Prosecutor's Office of the Directorate for National Construction Control on 4 and 5 June 2020 in Sozopol Municipality and in the Regional Directorate for National Construction Control, Burgas, where the following findings were made. First, by Order No 635 of 5 June 2006, the mayor of Sozopol Municipality approved a detailed development plan for changing the use of agricultural land for the purpose of building fork buildings for its own use. According to the explanatory note to the amendment of the Detailed Development Plan, the construction plan with No 000799 is located in the middle between the two owned by the property Aleppu, the property and given the sketch issued by the Ministry of Agriculture and Forests of 27 October 2006 is reflected as another non-profit category owned by the municipality of Sozopol. The property is integrated by an addition to the detailed planning plan in the predictions of the newly accepted urban planning, and is included in the regulatory boundaries of the own of the village of Aleppu. 15, para. 3 of the Law on Structure of the Area. Decision No 33 of 2007, assessing the environmental impact of the RIEW Burgas, approved the investment proposal. By Decision No 9 of the Committee on Art. 9, 2007. 17, para. 1, t. 1 of The Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m pm m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m pm m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m pm m m m m m m m m pm m m m m m m pm m m m m m m m m m m m m pm m m m m m m m m m m m m m pm m m m m m m m m m m m m m pm m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m By Order No Z-1148/2007, the mayor of Sozopol Municipality has partially amended the Detailed Development Plan According to an opinion from 2017 by the "Geosaprotectata" Ltd. of Varna, in the area of land properties is registered an active landslide and to ensure the sustainability of the coastal slope it is necessary to design and implement anti-slide and anti-abrasive fortification activities. By letter dated January 2017 of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works on the grounds of art. 96, para. 3 of the Law on Construction in the Area is given prior consent for carrying out geo-defense measures and activities. According to the written opinion of the Swimming Directorate of the Black Sea Region, the investment proposal is eligible for the River Basin Management Plan and the Flood Risk Management Plan and its implementation will not have a significant impact on water and aquatic ecosystems subject to specific conditions listed in the opinion. By Decision of 29 December 2017 on compatibility assessment by RIEW Burgas, the director of RIEW Burgas, agreed on an investment proposal. The main architect of Sozopol Municipality on 10 September 2018 agreed and approved investment projects, on the basis of which a building permit was granted No 100 from 10 September 2018 under the name of Aleppu Village. In an inspection carried out by the employees of the RDNCC Burgas, in the beginning of 2019 violations and omissions in the issued building papers and building permit were detected: In this regard, by letter of the Head of the RDNC Burgas, the Mayor and the Chief architect of the municipality of Sozopol were given orders to supplement the building permit to distinguish the stage of the construction. By the head of RDNC "Burgas," on 14 February 2019 was issued an order to stop the construction, concerning only the second stage. The implementation of the shore support or anti-scathement facility should be implemented within the duration of the construction permit in accordance with the approved construction papers. An order was issued by the Chief Architect of Sozopol Municipality on 1 March 2019 to supplement Building Permission No 100 within the scope of the material deviations within the meaning of art. 154, para. 2, p. 5 and so on. 6 of the Law on construction of the territory on the sequence of construction: the first stage of construction of a landslide with approved investment project of 10 September 2018 by the municipality of Sozopol and the second stage of the construction of the building, the first implementation of geo-defense measures and activities to strengthen the landslide, taking into account the effect of implementing the measures and activities to stabilise the landslide through the monitoring under art. 95, para. 3 of the Law on Structure of the Area. In the case of construction controls carried out following an order of 14 February 2019, no execution of construction works beyond the intended activities within the first stage of the construction of a landslide has been established. The first stage of the construction was put into operation with the permission to use No 118 of 13 February 2020, issued by the head of the DNCK. The second stage of construction and assembly works have not been started. There's no construction equipment on the site and it's surrounded. In connection with a prosecutor's examination of the Supreme Administrative Prosecutor's Office on 11 June 2020, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works has been ordered through its subordinate structures to carry out a construction inspection of Aleppu Village, carrying out a geodetic photographing with a view to establishing the circumstances identified by the Prosecutor's Office, drawing sketches, explanatory notes and a report. In this regard, I have ordered the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadaster Agency to immediately entrust the activities described in the provision, to draw up the necessary documents and to provide a detailed report. As you know, as of now, the prosecution has protested the issued building permit. We continue to cooperate. We have provided all the documents requested so far, the reports of the inspections of the DNCK and the RDNC and we are currently carrying out the above described and described by me for geodetic filming. From this point forward, we will wait for the ruling of the competent authorities and the ruling of the court on the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u47	Thank you, dear Minister. In the manner of conduct you are welcome, Mr. Kostadinov, but I will ask you really in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u48	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I thank you for the opportunity that was given through the hearing of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, because yesterday my motives were for conditions of binding competence between the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, the Ministry of Tourism and the Ministry of Environment and Water. Mr. Chairman, I would like to call on you to understand that Minister Angelkova is committed to this matter, it is urgent, in the same order to ask for such information in order to clarify the picture within this bound competence which concerns this complex case. Thank you once again for the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works told us what the Ministry of Environment and Water did not tell us yesterday. We had a simple question: what are the documents issued so far? We got that from the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u49	Thank you, dear Mr. Kostadinov. Minister Angelkova will come. I can't determine exactly when, what time, but will be present and will answer your question. Colleagues, we are continuing with Ms. Desislava Taneva, Minister of Agriculture and Food, with a question from the National Representative Alexander Sabanov on the upcoming protests by fishermen in the Danube. [[Heckling]] Here you go, Mr. Sabanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u50	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! I will start with the first question, which is in connection with meetings that I have held with fishermen from Silistren region along the Danube River, with their problem, which has actually been reflected in the media. They wanted to close the navigable route of the Danube River, which is by your order to prohibit fishing for Danube mackerel in the Danube River until 30 May. At the same time, in my information, until 4 May the fishing of the Romanian side was banned, which places the two guilds of fishermen... the Bulgarian and Romanian, disadvantaged, as the Romanians and Bulgarians hunt in the same river at the same time and the passages of the Danube mackerel feed both the Bulgarian and Romanian fishermen. In this regard, if this order you have given really aims to preserve the species of Danube mackerel, so that it can throw its caviar and breed, how is it that in the same sections Romanians do not keep this species, and we keep it? Since we were told by the IRA that there was actually some arrangement with the Romanian side to synchronise this ban, in the end what happened that it was not synchronized and Romanians were fishing and our fishermen were deprived of that right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u51	Thank you, Mr. Sabanov. You have the floor for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u52	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Sabanov, my order, which increases the deadline for banning fishing in the Danube River of the species of whitefish and Danube mackerel including, has been issued on the grounds of art. 32, para. 5 of the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture on a proposal from the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture, based on scientific data and a request from the World Wildlife Conservation Fund in Bulgaria to optimize the periods prohibited for business fishing in the Danube. The proposal is supported by scientific institutions and organizations working in the field of fisheries, the Department of General and Applied Hydrobiology and the Faculty of Biodiversity, Ecosystems and Research at the Institute of Biodiversity, Ecosystems and Research of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. The opinions of scientific and non-governmental organisations are taken into account, with the aim of the ban introduced being to reduce the negative impact of fishing activities with net instruments in the places for natural reproduction of spring-summer breeding fish which are prohibited for catch in this period from 15 April to 31 May in the Danube. One of the most important measures, which largely have a positive effect on the fish population, is their non-disturbation during the breeding period. In carrying out the whole fishing of pike and whitefish with net gear when catching specimens of the group of spring-launch breeding fish, it represents a huge percentage of the quantity caught over 90%, according to scientific data provided. Even if the legal procedure for immediately returning to the water of unwanted catches is respected, mortality is too high given the specific nature of fishing with net gear. Following a consultation and analysis of the catch data of caragez in the period 2015 - 2018 from the information and statistical system of the IRA, it was found that annual catches of caragoz on average amounted to only 1.4% of the total catches carried out by Bulgarian fishing vessels in the Danube River. An agreement was signed at the end of 2015 between the IRA and the National Fisheries and Aquaculture Agency (IARA) Romania to carry out joint control activities in the Danube River, which has not yet been amended or terminated. The main objective of this agreement is to carry out joint fisheries control activities in the common section of the Danube, to harmonise the standards of inspection and control on both sides. The Agreement provides for action to be taken on uniformisation of the period of prohibition of fishing in the common section of the river. Since the ban has been established by law in Bulgaria and in Romania the forbidden periods are determined by a joint order of the ministers of agriculture and the environment, in recent years the practice has been adopted for the Romanian authorities to comply with the time limits laid down in our legislation, because the legislative change procedure is quite prolonged and, on the other hand, it is not appropriate to undertake annual amendments to the law. Specifically this year, as early as January, the IRA has notified the Romanian agency of the time limits for the ban laid down in our legislation and requests that the same deadlines be taken into account when setting the ban on their part. Actions have also been taken by the control administrations of the two parties to coordinate measures in the following calendar year in order to take management decisions, balance between the conservation of fishery resources and protect the interests of the fishing parties. We should also note that the Romanian side introduces various prohibitions, including for different sections of the Danube, and they are of national competence. We respect the agreement we have signed between the two parties.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u53	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Sabanov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u54	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, the concerns of fishermen are not only that this year actually happened. We really hope that next year you will at least divide the orders for each individual type to be a separate order, because in this way, if you can react, the state in your person should do so. In the end, I appeal, as I have spoken several times to the head of IRA Galin Nikolov, who promised to go to see these people, to explain to them in detail what is happening and why it happened this year. But the most important thing about these people's concerns is that really in the same river both sides are not equal. Of course, there is no way to influence Romanians to obey our laws or our orders, but ultimately, when they do, that is, when they do not follow these orders, it is right for us also to adhere to the realities that flow at any time along this river. Let us say that I do understand what has happened this year, but I hope that measures will be taken next year not to get this precedent and not to get such a mess for fishermen in the Danube. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u55	Thank you, dear Mr. Sabanov. Mrs. Secretary, the doppelganger? No. We will continue to provide information about the construction in Aleppu locality by Ms. Nikolina Angelkova. You have the floor, Mrs. Angelkova, to provide the information on the topic stages, procedures, permits.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u56	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! With regard to the requested information about Aleppu's construction, I would like to stress that under the Black Sea Coast Construction Act, the competence of the Minister of Tourism is entirely linked only to the territory of the sea beaches. The Minister of Tourism has no competence relating to the construction and issue of a building permit regarding the construction of sites falling within the scope of Zone A and Zone B of the Black Sea Coast Construction Act. In Chapter 3 of the same law, in art. 9 and the next are clearly described the competences of all responsible institutions related to construction along the Black Sea coast. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u57	Thank you, dear Minister. Colleagues, we will continue with information that will be provided at her request by the Minister of Energy Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova on the development of the negotiations on the nuclear power plant. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u58	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I asked for the floor and the opportunity to inform you about the procedure for selecting a strategic investor for the NPP project. You know that the renewal of actions related to the search for the possibility of realization of the NPP project is in implementation of the Decision of the National Assembly of 2018. This decision confers certain obligations on the Minister of Energy and he has the obligation to inform the Bulgarian Parliament about the course of all events related to the procedure for selecting a strategic investor. We were informed by three of the companies that are included in the short list for participation in the NPP procedure Since this is a new essential element, I think it is important that this be reported immediately to the Bulgarian Parliament. The unification of the efforts of these three world leaders in the field of nuclear energy is indeed a very clear sign that the procedure relating to the selection of a strategic investor will be extremely contested. The fact that we have come to this point shows several things that these three world leaders in the field of nuclear power have united their efforts shows that they believe in this project and the possibility of realization of the project is becoming increasingly tangible within what has happened today and which has already been made public today by these three companies. There's something else I'd like to pay attention to here. The fact that these three world leaders in the field of nuclear power united their efforts shows that they believe in Bulgaria, believe in the Bulgarian government, believe in the Bulgarian Parliament. And here is a major role to come to this unification, there is also the Bulgarian Prime Minister, who, with his efforts, with his reputation in the international community, has actually inspired confidence and it has been possible for these three companies to join their efforts and to state their desire to participate together in the procedure related to the project for the construction of the nuclear power plant. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what I would like to bring to your knowledge, as this is an essential point in the procedure. Of the five companies that were included in the short list, three of them are united in a consortium that will participate together, and from now on the procedure will go on in this move. I think this is good news for Bulgaria, for all of us, shows confidence in Bulgaria, in the Bulgarian government and in the Bulgarian prime minister, without whose support and without which fair, objective and partnership we could not boast of such a result. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u59	Thank you, dear Minister. That was the good news of today. We continue with the next question to Minister Taneva. He is once again from the National Representative Alexander Sabanov on subsidies for vegetable producers. You have the floor, dear Mr. Sabanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u60	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mrs. Minister! At the end of April this year after talks with the Prime Minister, Mr. Karakachanov, Deputy Prime Minister, and the farmer Krasimir Kunchev at an extraordinary press conference with your participation you announced the new measures for the subsidy of vegetable producers for the production and implementation of the amount of production. It may have been two months since then and it is not clear what is happening. In this regard, my question is: where did the realization of this publicly announced idea come from and, ultimately, when will vegetable producers be able to benefit from it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u61	Thank you. Madam Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u62	Thanks for asking, Mr. Sabanov. Vegetable producers are part of producers that are in the category of sensitive and underfunded sectors. Both for them and for all other sectors of this category Bulgaria has been fighting on its initiative since the end of March in the European Commission to receive the opportunity for additional support. This is what I announced at the press conference quoted by you in the presentation of the matter. Where are we? I would like to say that after many communications, thanks to the MEPs from all the parliamentary groups that are represented in the present National Assembly, including those from the opposition, because there has been a debate at the previous meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Food, we are at the final of this initiative of Bulgaria and we expect that tomorrow at 14.30 there will be announced results of the final vote to amend Regulation No 1305 What do we expect tomorrow at the finish line? To be able to programme a measure COVID-19 with 2% of the budget under the Rural Development Programme, a measure of income reduction and additional costs for farmers from the COVID-19 pandemic, with the ceilings for a farmer being 7 thousand. EUR at the moment, and for small and medium-sized enterprises there are 50 thousand. Euros. In the Ministry of Agriculture and Food we are ready and developed a design of the measure and until tomorrow we communicate with all industry organizations, including vegetable producers, to prove the additional costs. Within a few days, we will announce to them the specific compensatory rates of each type of production that will be communicated to the European Commission in the course of the debate on programming and approval of this exceptional compensatory measure after, of course, the final vote, which we expect tomorrow to be as it has been at all stages so far, namely unanimously so far, all member states. If all this ends this way, we plan at the beginning of July to actually conduct the relevant Monitoring Committee, to launch the relevant notification, because this will be part of the scope of the Rural Development Programme. What does 2% mean for Bulgaria? That's close to 100 million or about 100 million. lv. a resource that can be provided under this compensatory measure. So we're at this point. If all this goes according to plan, in practice it means that by the end of summer, early autumn they will also receive their payments. With regard to the concrete proposal I announced at the press conference, it was the announcement of the criterion that he proposed and we accepted it to be a more realized income, not a hectare, quantity and so on. This criterion will also be offered to the sector "vegetative production" as we announced at the press conference.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u63	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Sabanov? You don't want a line. Thank you. We move on to the next issue by the MPs Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova and Veska Marinova Nencheva regarding the financial support and protection of the small and medium-sized rose producers in the context of the crisis related to the pandemic of COVID-19. Here you are, Mrs. Nencheva, for a statement of the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u64	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister! Our question with Professor Bachvarova has been on May 20th. In that time, we learned that he has provoked in you a attitude towards rose producers. We expect this attitude to be in favor of all rose producers and not just part of them. This campaign is over. She went into an emergency situation and a new law. You've been through a lot. Not a few rose producers have eradicated their crops, and even more decares have been abandoned without robbing the flower of the rose. I want this to be heard from this tribune because you have already heard the opposite view that people are calm and there is no tension in the sector. But you are a minister and you must have full information, you are responsible for decisions taken or taken. We expect your objective assessment of the 2020 campaign to give fair support to each participant in the process. The contrary means deepening the chaos and uncertainty that are caused by the lack of information about what will happen in the long term with rose production. Inevitably, the law will be corrected. Within a month, the picture of how much real rose producers will be more complete through the register. However, good changes need an in-depth analysis of what is happening in the sector and a violation of the political ego. Work is needed for fair care and support for all rose producers. The country's policy for rose production must be consensual and transcending narrow sectoral ambitions and political pleasing. We expect you to seek everyone's cooperation and opinion. Dear Minister, the Rosoproduction Sector is one of the directly affected by the crisis related to the CoVID pandemic 19. In this context, support for the Rural Development Programme is to be provided, as you said just now, at the rate of 50 million. Euros. Our question to you is: on what basis will financial support and protection be determined for small and medium-sized rose producers? Please keep in mind the expectations of people to talk to them on the spot. I received many calls and expressed disappointment from many rose producers that they failed to meet you in the town of Klisura last week. Next time you come, look for them and meet them. Accept my invitation for an official visit on their behalf. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u65	Thank you, Ms. Nencheva. Mrs. Taneva, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u66	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mrs. Nencheva, dear Professor Bachvarova! First, I will give, of course, preliminary data. I never said the sector was calm, on the contrary. I would like to express my gratitude to all the rose producers for the fact that, despite the most difficult period they have gone through and have not yet passed, as the rosober is still going on somewhere, they have shown responsibility, attitude. We had communication, but eventually we had one, how can I say, brought up and normal human dialogue. The truth is that in terms of the decline in income for rose producers it is statistically clear, appreciated and most sensitive of all other sectors. I really have no problem meeting with whomever a farmer wants, but you understand, any minister, that on applications submitted from last year, they are 106 thousand in number, we are actively communicating with the relevant branch organizations. They are in their right to join them and take part in the formation of the opinions of the branch organizations, because the measure on which I have already spoken on the previous question, not to repeat myself in order not to take the time, was clearly stated what the approach would be. We and industry organisations in the sector speak from the earliest in terms of proving how and how much to be formed their composite rate. Since I have spoken this with the branch organizations, I can announce it, as this will not be news to them. According to all the data we have, we take two approaches to programming and establishing the size of the composite rate. These are the additional costs incurred by the Minister of Health's anti-epidemic measures. They are very clear because we, before the European Commission, have to prove every single digit that we present, according to all the data on employment and the costs that we have been provided, plus data on the reduced return price. So we will fight to defend a rate between 80 and 90 levs. the decare of rose plantation. These are the accounts that can be proven. Again, we must and can only step on data that has an official source to protect them before the Commission. This is for the sector. This was announced at my meeting on Friday, which was planned with two branch organizations where I was and in the gardens of relevant rose producers. Let me also say a few preliminary data on the implementation of the Law. We expect the officials to finish them by next week. The applications submitted for identification of rose plants are 2 thousand. 243 pieces, of them checked on-site is 2,000. 009 or 89,6% of which 64 applications, which represents nearly 3%, do not meet the requirements of the Law and their Rosa Damascena has impurities with other roses. Furthermore, I would like to point out, in the name of the truth, that all the pink plantings for which information has been submitted on the eradication and verified by our services are neither Damascena nor Alba, and these are Serbian and other varieties and impurities, which will not be covered by the support that has been announced and is currently in procedure. The areas identified with Rosa Damascena and Rosa alba are 42 thousand. 300 acres. The total area of identification we have is 47,000. Dka. These are the data from the identification that was carried out. With regard to payment deadlines. I've announced what mode we work in. Tomorrow we are waiting for the final vote, the official decision and, at the beginning of July, the Monitoring Committee, where we will, of course, present all these measures. The Commission's requirements are to make the measures as simple as possible, as fast as possible so that farmers can apply and be paid in the fastest possible way, and these are the shortest terms. I think those were the questions I had to answer. I would like to emphasise here that a requirement under a regulation is possible support and possible application to be for registered farmers. It's a regulation requirement!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u67	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mrs. Bachvarova, you have the right to a line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u68	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mrs. Minister! In practice, one of the questions is who will receive this assistance. We are talking about small and medium-sized rose producers, registered farmers from this group, which has been identified so far, how many are there? Because if the dominant group is in the field of identification, they're registered as rose producers, but you don't think they're registered farmers, how big is this group? From now on, conclusions can be drawn on whether there will be any support at all. Why do we make an identification of the rose producers and it will not be sufficient for them to receive appropriate support under European regulations? In any case, a third year has problems with the Rosoproduction sector and this required the adoption of the Law. We hope that this law has its reasons and the opportunity to be upgraded, because despite the regulations that are being offered, despite the requirements for rose producers, they were virtually left to the elements of the market. This market is extremely difficult, the crises in it are difficult to come out, but they can be managed. The rose oil production sector in 7 years has been in a crisis state. It is very difficult to get out, and it still requires some programming and measures that the state can take to protect both those producing and those processing. From this point of view, what is happening in the sector is no surprise. But rose oil can be kept for five, six, seven, eight years, not realized in order to look for the best market realization, but during that time the rose producers produce annually and they must be in some form protected. The additional questions I would like to ask you are also related to how, how the control for the production of Bulgarian rose oil will be carried out accordingly according to the protected geographical name. When will we finally be able to know how much rose oil is imported from third countries and from outside? When I asked that question two years ago, I was told that there was no such statistic, no such code. This means that the final product, which is produced, is not very certain whether it is only the production of rose oil from Bulgarian roses, if this import is nowhere reflected and is not in any form monitored in a way to make subsequent decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Madam Minister, you have the right not to answer any further questions. If you're ready, you can answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u70	Order of the questions of Professor Bachvarova. Firstly, just to make a reply that all producers, as a matter of fact, not only agricultural raw materials, are practically on the market. It has its crises, its elements and so on, and they do not differ in this way from any other manufacturer on the market. I would just like to point out that in the end, the last three years are the only years in which something for this sector was first done, including the granting of de minimis aid. This is the first time since we are members of the European Union since we are in a market-functioning economy after the 1990s. It should be taken into account, including that the Oil Rose Act, in particular in the light of the planning of this crisis, because we predicted it, it was expected to take into account the pandemic, the markets and some other factors, including the overproduction of rose oil in the world, and it has its genesis, but not to open another topic and to go back a lot further in the years why it came to the market as a whole with rose oil, not only in us, but also in the world. We predicted it, we expected it, and it was my idea at all that we needed to make the identification in this short time so we could save the Damascena because we predicted this crisis. She's not unexpected, she has her reasons. So that's what I mean as a line. Regarding your question about registered farmers. For the 2009 campaign they received payment under the single payment scheme 1328 registered farmers of rose plantations. That's the number. Currently, 2000 producers of pink color have declared identification of their areas over 2000 which I announced, 2008 have been identified with Rosa Damascena and Alba. That's it. We have a register for rose producers. I am telling you that any aid under a regulation, including State aid, must be granted to a registered farmer, a clear requirement under a regulation is. Based on your communication, I have placed the task of explaining to the Commission what situation we are in, but this is the requirement by regulation, and I cannot at the moment give another announcement before such communication. Yes, we have a register of rose producers, it will establish these areas, but the possibility of any support on a European line or on a national, as required, strictly, unconditionally by the regulations is for a registered farmer. I would also like to say that, in principle, the compensatory support for COVID-19 for farmers is at a ceiling of EUR 7000. I would like to say that it will actually serve small and medium-sized farmers. I could give you some additional data on the area registered, but you probably know it. In Plovdiv is the leader with 865 applications, followed by Stara Zagora with 637, and Pazardzhik with 532. These are practically the three areas that give this production. With regard to the control of rose oil, because we, in order to have a price, ultimately have to keep both this variety and the good quality of rose oil as it should be. In talks with industry organisations, including processors, even by themselves there are ideas and suggestions on how to make the entry control so that we can ensure that there are no operators on the market who can actually provoke a drop in the price due to the lower quality and this debate after the end of the campaign is coming, including here in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u71	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The next question is related to the problems in the beekeeping sector and their resolution. It is set by the MPs Svetla Bachvarova, Chavdar Velinov and Vasil Antonov. Who's gonna bring it up? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u72	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues, dear Minister! In recent years, beekeeping in Bulgaria has suffered significant losses from poisoning in plant protection events. According to the data of the service, more than 20% of the bee families die annually at your Ministry in Bulgaria. In early May 2020, there was a mass death of bees in Pleven County. The losses are over 30% of the bee families, even more so for the third consecutive year of 2018 and 2019 and 2020. Please, I know that during this month, when we expected your response at the beginning of May, you did the necessary actions, you did the checks, but I ask you to answer: what are the causes of the poisoning based on laboratory tests? What lab was the research done? And let me ask you something further: do these research results give the necessary prerequisites for applying the so-called cross compliance procedure, established by the Minister's order for the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency? What measures will the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forest take to compensate the affected beekeepers because these are three consecutive years in which... [[M Minister Desislava Taneva's reply.]] That's right. And to prevent future poisoning, what will the Ministry do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u73	Thank you, Mr. Velinov. You're the first to get involved in today's control. You have the floor to answer, Mrs. Minister. I wish you the same.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u74	As I have answered this question to the previous parliamentary control, I will answer much more briefly, including keeping the note from the President. As I have all the data, I announced them in the answer to the previous question how we actually have five samples in total on signals and complaints and only one of them establishes the same active substances from bees and plant samples, none in all others. Both plant and bee samples are found to be prohibited for use active substances, including those that are not, for example, plant and bee products. I explained all this in detail. How are we doing right now? Where corn was sown, plant samples are currently being taken to further identify a similarity between active substances that can cause this process of dying bees. After all, until these samples come out, we cannot give a firm opinion. According to the data, we have an opinion, including the Centre for Risk Assessment. With regard to the case in Pleven on all complaints, one or more have been withdrawn, so far the samples without those that are the last plant, cannot prove the causal link between the plant protection products used and the mortality, but we expect the others, with which we will close the case and announce. The truth regarding your cross-compliance with the relevant sanctions is not a breach here, that there is no notification or that only one of them has an established use of an unauthorised preparation. There will be a penalty imposed and there will be a corresponding penalty on subsidies. With regard to alerts for detection of infringements, what is the statistics? In 2019 we have received 102 signals, we have identified 32 violations of the signals submitted and we have issued 24 penal orders. [[Reply of MP Chavdar Velinov.]] No, we even got paid. There is an appeal, of course, but there is also a paid question of judgment. With regard to this year, to date, we have only 27 signals, eight detected violations and two penal decrees issued at BGN 1500. That is at the moment the situation on which I can give an answer. When the plant samples come out, again, I said, we'll put it all up on the publicity website on this case. How will they be helped? [[Reply of MP Chavdar Velinov.]] Yes, it is a fact, by the way, of the... some senders of complaints and beekeepers who have this submarine were also beneficiaries of de minimis, again because of mortality. How do we move on? Depending on the determination of the results of the plant samples. Where are they done? All of them in accredited laboratories, and at the moment one state is in accreditation procedure and we are waiting for accreditation at any moment.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u75	Thank you, Madam Secretary. You're entitled to a line. Mrs. Bachvarova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u76	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mrs. Minister! True, issues of beekeeping problems, adverse weather conditions, sprays are an extremely serious problem, because they are virtually out of control, and there should be control, creating problems in the sector not for a year. Somehow I was under the impression that there almost had to be a signal to do a check. Provided that there are commitments in the Law, they are linked to a specific procedure that needs to be followed when spraying is carried out, it seems to me that it is not logical to wait for signals, but must be a continuous control process that implements the preventive policy in relation to this uncontrolled spray. You said now that there are accredited laboratories. As far as I know, there is no state-owned one, it has literally been in the process of accreditation for a year. [[M Minister Desislava Taneva's reply.]] Okay, so state is probably the only one who can give information about what the bees were poisoned with. No farmer can appear in court and look for his responsibilities because he does not have a document to show what the poisons are, therefore these poisons have caused mortality and from there to receive compensation for the sprays carried out by unholy farmers. There is only one more private laboratory, but in the order of BGN 400. this cocktail of plant protection preparations seems almost impossible and no farmer resorts to such services because, again, we are talking about small and medium-sized farms that do not have these financial capabilities. The additional question that I have for you and I want to get an answer, if possible, is: what is envisaged to change Regulation No 13, which, as far as I know, is in public discussion? There are some fantastic things in there, like night sprays, which, accordingly, prevent bees from being poisoned as a result of these sprays. The second question is: Has the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency in Pleven referred to the prosecution about these violations and these signals to make the necessary steps in the direction to establish exactly these signals whether they are correct or not? I could not find information in the media regarding this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. You're using the opportunity to ask further questions again. Madam Minister, if you're ready, you may answer. If you don't have one, you don't have to answer. [[Reply from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova.]] That's the rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u78	What amendments are provided for in Regulation No 13 of 2016? Firstly, improving the notification mechanism by setting up an electronic platform for disclosure of plant protection disinfection and disinfection activities. By the way, piloted this platform was launched at the end of May. Secondly, the introduction of more restrictive time limits in carrying out treatments. Thirdly, increasing the effectiveness of official controls by making employees available on weekends and holidays. In practice, this was done in such campaigns, including this season there were such groups. Fourth, funding analyses of plant samples from BABBH in case of pesticide residues in samples, bees and others. What you just put in there. The proposed Draft Regulation amending and supplementing Regulation No 13 aims to ensure better protection of bees and bee families from poisoning. A prior public consultation with interested parties has been held. Within the framework of the preparation the project was published for public consultation of the site. Offers were received by April 9th. As they were very diverse, in the framework of the public consultation, the Ministry requested scientific advice from the specialized institutions of the Agricultural Academy, the Centre for Risk Assessment and the Academic University of Agraren, Thracian and Lesotechnical. We have received these opinions. At the same time as the work on the Draft Regulation, the development of the Electronic Disclosure Platform, which is also point one of the Ordinance, was also launched and it was demonstrated on 21 May as functionality. All opinions received as part of the public discussion are now being sent back to the interested parties, as these are in practice opinions of science on any proposal in order to obtain full conviction from everyone on this chain about what the scientific approach is and how it should be handled. This was also part of another matter, they are several on the case.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u79	Thank you, Madam Secretary. For the next question related to the protection of bees and bees in Bulgaria, I give the floor to Mr. Christian Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! You might say that I have received an answer to some of my questions on your previous question. Perhaps they should have been united in a joint response, but that is how the leadership of the National Assembly assessed them anyway. However, to ask my question, as there are some more specific things. I save myself the introduction that every year the problems with poisoning bees and bee families arise. First, in particular, you gave information about the sanctioned companies about the illegal use of pesticides, but still how many are they for the Yambol region, if any, and where are the most sanctioned offenders? For the adoption of the amendment and supplement of Decree No 13 of 2016 you have already spoken in the previous question, but still, if you have anything else to add, I would modify the question: is not the adoption of this regulation now meaningless, as the season has practically passed and whatever is now coming into force, will it be sooner for next year? And the third question: are you providing for new legislative initiatives and measures to improve the organisation and control of the implementation of existing provisions, because in many cases it is not about the need for new measures, but rather about strengthening control, and what measures do you intend to take in this direction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u81	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Madam Minister, order an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u82	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Vigenin! The extra questions. Since, yes, some of your questions are covered with Professor Bachvarova's questions, I have already answered. In order not to repeat myself, I will only try to respond to the additional ones set out to me. With regard to Yambol District for last year there are only three signals from 102 which I announced in the previous question, for the past year in all districts, and for 2020 there is currently only one signal for the village of Ovchi Kladenets The treatment was carried out with a herbicide authorised for use in sunflower and leaf manure. A notification letter has been submitted, the legislation has been respected. A sample of the bees was taken, but the owner of the apiary refused to pay for the study and was not given for examination. With regard to sanctioned ones. For 2020, I told you that this was just one signal for Yambol, which has been checked. For 2019, no acts of administrative misconduct have been issued in Yambol District. In the issued ones I announced, a total of 32 of them are not available for Yambol district. With regard to the penalties suffered for compliance with cross compliance. I can provide aggregate and decent data for 2019, where more than 1000 farmers are sanctioned under the rules, they are not deprived of a subsidy, but are only sanctioned for nearly 2 million. lv. To the question of additional control measures. I have announced in detail what we foresee as an amendment to Regulation No 13 and it is at what stage it is. We do not think, of course, that something is unnecessary, as the next season is yet to come. Either way, it's a principled regulation and it's not made season for season. What lies ahead, especially in the face of the announced Green transaction and the development of the strategic plan, is where to find the symbiosis between farmers and beekeepers, so that we can with the instruments and with the much higher budget for this deal we can support, including the preservation of this diversity.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u83	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Vigenin, you're entitled to a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since you're not solving any further questions, I'm just gonna make a comment.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u85	Or asking. If it was a question, you're right, but...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u86	That's right. Thank you, Madam Minister, for your answer. The theme of beekeeping we will have to continue it. These were specific issues related above all to cases of bee poisoning, but anyway, this is a unique sector that is under increasing competitive pressure, most often not quite loyal, so we must also have a special attitude towards it, all the more so that the benefits of this sector far exceed the yield of honey. Even I would say that the extraction of honey is a sort of by-product to the other benefits it benefits from, namely the strengthening of yields in other sectors of fruit, vegetable grain production, and from this point of view, it seems to me that the approach of confrontation of beekeepers against other farmers is not correct and a partnership must be sought and the mutual benefits in this process must be sought. Secondly, at times it seems to me that somehow also because of the European rules probably at times the Ministry of Agriculture sees beekeepers, as well as other agricultural sectors as some channels for absorption of euro funds. It seems to me that we need a broader policy here, an element of which these funds should be. Unfortunately, this kind of corrupts the sector, as it is no secret that some of the beekeepers, fortunately the smaller one, sees this sector as a way to absorb some funds. And thirdly, as you have noted, scientific methods of protecting bees and bees should be sought to a greater extent, because, as in recent years, some pesticides have a direct effect, lead to poisoning, but others lead not to poisoning, but to disorientation of bees, others are harmless at first sight, but with the accumulation at the end of the season die precisely the strongest bee families and other such elements. Therefore, from this point of view, I believe that a broader approach to this problem should be encouraged. And as for Decree No 13, I believe that you had the opportunity to accept it at an earlier stage, and that would save some of the problems. I agree that it is a good thing that there will still be these changes, but it is really a pity that this could not have happened sooner. I hope, after its adoption, that there will be sufficient time for producers to adapt to its regulations, as well as for beekeepers, and let us do so, as I have started, to seek agreement and joint work, coordinated work, and not opposition to these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u87	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Madam Minister, are you going to use your right to dodge or not? Yeah, I didn't hear a question either. Thank you, thank you, colleagues. I'm adjourned until 12:00. 30 minutes. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u88	We're continuing the hearing. Dear Minister, you must answer a question of the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova and Mr. Nikolay Penev on the support for small farms in the sector Mrs. Bachvarova, come in for your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u89	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, my question is provoked and it is important that we receive an answer from you regarding the discussions that were in the National Assembly during the crisis and the proposals that have been made to support small farmers in particular. They are a large group not only as registered farmers, but also as family and personal, which are outside the scope of support. When we proposed measures, in particular for the sector "Fruits and vegetables" related to crisis management and income support, in general, what was given to us as data was how many million in European funds are provided, how these millions are respectively supporting all sectors in this case for 2019. However, the issue remains open, and my deep conviction is that small farmers, especially those who deal with the sector, are given inadequate, insignificant support. From this point of view, they are a disappearing species because of the extremely great difficulties they face not only in terms of production, but in terms of the realization of the market and the requirements for them, and also in terms of the support that the European funds and state support provide. The question that we have for you is: can you give relatively accurate statistics for 2019 for small farmers in the sector "Fruits and vegetables".. what is their number, what support they have received, and therefore already your analysis to address problems that have arisen and continue to be created for the economy of the sector as a whole? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u91	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Professor Bachvarova! First of all, I would like to start from the fact that the right to support with European, national funds have only registered farmers that must be clear. In this regard, if a family garden, a family vineyard are not registered as farmers under the common European regulatory framework, we do not have the right to a national decision to finance such producers. True, they are accounted for for the needs of agrostatism, but as financial support we cannot provide one, and that must be clear. I'm continuing with your support. We can, of course, provide very accurate information. In general, as a common framework, I would like to say that Bulgaria has taken all possible national decisions within the scope of direct payments, on the basis of which sensitive sectors of fruit, vegetables, animals, receive the maximum percentage of the European Regulation, the percentage of the direct payments for support. Secondly, we have taken such a decision as is permissible under the general regulatory measure to apply the redistributive payment. These are higher payments per hectare for the first 30. Within the scope of the tied support, we have introduced and modulated a rate again for the first 30 hectares in plant farming and by category of animal, large ruminants or minor ruminants. There are different norms for a smaller number of animals to receive high support. In this context, I say that all possible national decisions that can be taken within the scope of the common European regulatory framework are taken to provide higher support to small and medium-sized enterprises. A little statistic: According to the reassignment payment scheme for the 2019 campaign, 105 million applications were authorised for 56 505. 190,000. 942 BGN, or 137,22 BGN per rate. Scheme for payment of agricultural practices favourable to the climate and the environment. For green direct payments the applications are 56 632, or 122,67 BGN/hectar per rate. Scheme for young farmers. For 3858 applications 3 million were authorised. 701 thousand. 570 BGN, or 97,29 BGN per rate. Perhaps I should have started with the single area payment scheme, where the authorised applications were 56,726 with 712 million. 483 thousand. 23 BGN, or 194,58 BGN per rate. The rate is final. A commitment scheme for support for fruit, a major group. Authorized applications are 5968 with 3 million. 824 thousand. 83 BGN, with a rate of up to 30 hectares are 1820 BGN/hectar at a rate and 1213.90 BGN/hectar at a rate of over 30 hectares. Binding aid scheme for fruit slopes and table grapes. The authorised applications are 3228 with authorised payments of 6 million. Eight hundred and BGN 542, with a rate of up to 30 hectares on the farm are BGN 1040.7/hectar per rate and over 30 hectares are BGN 693.8/hectar per rate. Linked support scheme for vegetables.. tomatoes, cucumbers, gherkins, eggplant. Authorized applications are 2061, with 5 million. $863,000. BGN 101. authorised payments under this scheme, with BGN 1361,01/hectar per rate of up to 30 hectares and over 30 hectares with BGN 907,36/hectar per rate. Linked support scheme for vegetables.Pull pepper. The authorised applications are 1377 with a budget of 4 million. Seventy-eight thousand. £44. with a rate of 1942,72 BGN/hectar at a rate of up to 30 hectares and with 1295,15 BGN/hectar at a rate of over 30 hectares. Linked support scheme for vegetables - potatoes, onions and garlic. The authorised applications are 2839 with a budget of 11 million. 908 thousand. 87 leva. with a rate of 1351,36 BGN/hectar per rate of the first 30 hectares and 900,91 BGN/hectar per rate of over 30 hectares. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Linked support scheme for vegetables: carrots, cabbage, watermelons and melons. The authorised applications are 2791 with an authorised budget of 5 million. Seven hundred and BGN 146, with a rate of BGN 888,05/hectar per rate of the first 30 and with BGN 587,37/hectar per farm rate of more than 30 hectares. Linked support scheme for greenhouse vegetables. 927 are authorised applications with an authorised budget of 7 million. 781 thousand. 69...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u92	Madam Minister, you can provide this statistic. I don't think she'll be remembered. So many numbers will hardly be remembered.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u93	Last one. Well, I can introduce her. I mean, in all the applications I read in the tied support, more than 98% of these applications have received a higher rate and 77% of vegetables. Everything that... Yeah, I can provide the statistics. There are more statistics, but globally I said in my exhibition, and the rates for tied support are ultimately not final due to the completion of the respective procedures for...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u94	Okay, thank you. Mrs. Bachvarova, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u95	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I realize that the numbers from your point of view lead to the conclusion that the support is immensely high and there is no need for anyone to seek assistance and opportunities to change the model we have with regard to small farms. According to the data from the Ministry, 60 thousand are small farms that are registered as farmers, and they receive about 3.5 of all direct payments and European funds. State aid. Some serious structural differences that lead to a lack of aid through State aid. For 2019 The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. for the whole sector "Employment" and everything else is in the sector "Employment." The disproportion "Employment" is dramatic in Bulgaria. For 2019, according to statistics, the plant production is 75%, the livestock production is 25%, including fruit and vegetable producers have a 15% share in the gross added value in the sector These are disproportions which, if we do not have a vision and an idea of how we can overcome them, how small farms can be in the focus of any policy to be sustainable, we will not have an opportunity to develop them in the next programming period. These are intensive industries that have high added value. During the crisis, measures were announced again with State aid... for 2% interest, credit for fruit and vegetables. Do you have any idea that a producer with 10 decares of fruit will receive 500 leva, but its costs will be 160 leva. With special bets, insurance, walking twice or three times? This scheme was again made for the big producers. I would very much like to see this group being dealt with separately when we are discussing the future. This 300 acres of fruits and vegetables is a large amount of holding in these sectors. Small farms are 15, 20, 30 decares. They must, in some form, otherwise be monitored and tolerated, in the good sense of the word, to solve their questions and to remain on the Bulgarian market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Mrs. Secretary, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u97	Dear Professor Bachvarova, I am obliged to make a duplicate in order not to manipulate the information regarding the division of the sectors. When you export data on the relative share of the sector "Employment" in the value added, I think you exported, or gross domestic product from the Agrosector, this is where grain production comes in. We shouldn't forget that. And the support data that I export on commitment, they exclude grain production. So we cannot compare this share here at all with the sector of grain production, which is practically the main one in Bulgaria, to refer them as an extrapolated share in tied support, which is only for the sector of fruit and vegetables. These are virtually unparalleled shares. Secondly, as far as small farms are concerned, I don't know where you get the information that 60 grand is coming from. I reported a lot smaller numbers. If we follow the typology of holdings calculated in accordance with Regulation 2015/2020 when using standard production, statistics are as follows: with less than two thousand euros standard production volume are 104,898 farms, of which vegetables, flowers and mushrooms are 2081; vineyards are 9700; fruit crops are Of these 104 thousand by two thousand MPs, how registered as farmers is a very separate topic. From two thousand to four thousand CPO Bulgaria has 34 956 farms and from four thousand to eight thousand Euro CPO are 22 955 farms. This is the data with typology in relation to the quoted regulation. With regard to State aid. Believe me, really everything that is possible has been done in the scope of the budget that we have. And everything that was done and state aid were aimed at these sensitive sectors and at the realization of their production, which was a first condition for us, in order to reduce the damage from the closed HoReka channel and the pandemic. And the last thing I could have done was maybe give it to you at the beginning of my douche bag? How the budget was allocated, which is formed under the commitment support in practice of the economic analysis of the yield, without subsidies of the sectors of "Life" and "Employment" in the part of fruit and vegetables, I say again, the committed. We can't compare the relative share of the sector of the plant which includes the grain and extrapolate it to the budget of the tied support. It's a manipulation. These were calculations on the principle of two approaches both cost and income, in order to compensate income, because in practice support supports the farmer's income. This is what the data showed, I think in 2015, when the first practical distribution was made on the schemes. In the individual years thereafter, regardless of who is a minister, there were separate movements, including more schemes, with the aim of greater fairness on the various costs that each type of production makes and, of course, individual yields. These were the two data approaches used according to statistics, as discussed with the industry and so on.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u99	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Professor Bachvarova, first of all, I would like to say that we should not complain that someone was busy and had a job. Everyone in a given position fulfills their responsibilities. It's better to have a job than not, as they say. I'm doing a statistic on registered sites on June 16th. Personal holding: number of sites s 3713; number of animals s 1393. Eastern Balkan pig? 21 sites; number of animals? 1234. The total number of animals in the territory of the Member State where the animals are located is equal to the number of animals in the Type A: number of establishments Total amount of the premises I think that was the question. Right?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u100	Thank you for your brief and clear answer. Mrs. Bachvarova, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u101	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, firstly, the issue is at all about the registration of personal holdings, because the fact that swine fever is a priority and the greatest attention is cast there does not mean that there are no personal holdings which are subject to registration with other categories of animals. The question was therefore in general applications submitted by the mayors to the district directorates registered by inspection. Perhaps the more important question to which we have not received an answer is related to this, are there contracts concluded with veterinarians, private practitioners? Because there, according to the requirements of the Law, you know that those who are in personal holdings cannot be in industrial farms. There has been some tension which is probably created within the veterinary union of private practitioners will be decided or an opportunity will be found to be realized, but if there are no doctors on the ground on these personal holdings, it is possible again to have a breakthrough in this security, which we say is important for every place of conservation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u102	Thank you. Mrs. Secretary, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u103	Of course, the safety is the most important thing. It was for the purpose of ensuring, achieving and preventing the spread of diseases that the latest changes to the Animal Health Act were made. Yeah, there are contracts like that. 852 are the annexes concluded to the existing contracts with private practitioners, for the control, prevention and service of these sites.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u104	Thank you. We move on to the next issue by the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Dora Yankova on measures to overcome COVID-19 in the forest sector. Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova, to present your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u105	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, anyway, every sector in the country, sector has had problems during the crisis. The bad thing is, however, that in the universal euphoria of assessments, protests and so on, the sector has somehow remained sidelined. On the one hand, the sector is not entitled, in any form, to receive compensation related to the programmes of the Social Ministry, or to any other interest-free loans, for the simple reason that the sector is being led by the Agriculture and Forests sector. In other words, the scope of support programmes does not include agriculture and forests. All this time we have talked only about the sector........................................... and the sector... is one of the structural-defining and in the Ministry of Agriculture we have agencies, we have government enterprises, we have people working, and they have people working at some point, as far as public information is available............................................... From this point of view, I would like to ask you to find a way to open the door to the sector of the project in order for the support not to be symbolic or only in the future time, and indeed now to find measures and mechanisms for which there are opportunities to be implemented. So really this one, again I say, a structural-determining sector in the country to get the opportunity to fulfill its commitments and tasks for 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Professor Bachvarova, first of all, I would like to say that support in relation to the consequences for operators in the agricultural sector or the agricultural sector is intended to help operators overcome the crisis so that they remain on the market. No one is fooled that compensation can compensate for a 100% reduction in revenue, financial losses or increase the yield of these operators. They aim to support operators so that they remain in this sector. In this sense, the question you are putting in relation to the sector "Fory" cannot be viewed on this plane. With regard to the sector of the tree processing to exclude some of your ones. The wood processing industry refers to the sector of the manufacturing industry of the Economic Activity Classification (CID 2008), which is applicable to the provision of art. 2, para. 2 of Decree No 55 of the Council of Ministers of 30 March 2020. Therefore, wood processing companies as employers meeting the criteria laid down in the provision, as there are conditions, it is not unconditional, they can apply for compensation in order to maintain the employment of employees in enterprises. This option ensures some financial stability of processors, which, in turn, indirectly affects the normalization of the activity and of the logging companies, another important part of the sector. The regulations in force in the case of the sale of wood obtained from state forests require that participants in the auctions for the sale of a minimum of 70 per cent of wood offered in auctions be processors. We should therefore conclude that, in practice, 70 percent of the partners, the counterparties of the enterprises that effectively manage this resource are supported by this regulation. In relation to the second part of the question or the next 30%, for those who are not processors, we have taken administrative measures, changing business plans towards a categorical and sensitive reduction in the costs incurred by businesses. Undoubtedly, these two months have had an impact. Following the fall of the various restrictions, there are already results in the opposite direction, but all administrative measures taken to reduce costs in practice, including in two of the undertakings, and to reduce the charges in the Respectfully remain as operators and continue their activities after the pandemic.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u108	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mrs. Bachvarova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u109	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I feel like I haven't been able to answer the question. Perhaps the reason is that the sector is officially neglected by the Ministry. What does it mean to reduce costs? But how are you going to cut costs when you have to carry out certain activities -- fighting fires, erosion -- and I don't know what you're doing in a certain period of time? If they are not implemented in time, there is absolutely no point in fulfilling them in the months of November and December. The timber companies, the Executive Forest Agency, they're about 3,000, they have no protection at all. None at all! State-owned enterprises.......................... both for agriculture and forest measures to provide resources............................................................................ Because, I apologize, but Bulgaria is the country with the largest share of the state forests in Europe and to say: they do not need anything to do for them except to reduce their costs, it seems illogical. So my appeal is you have, I think, Advisory Council, I don't know if it works, if it doesn't work, to make sure you understand what the actual situation is. No one wants free money, but if there is a problem that has occurred in these three or four months, find a way to be solved with measures and a way to be accessible and objective. That was the purpose of the question, because otherwise it seems to me that we will find ourselves in a situation of having a wealth that we can neither protect nor can from now on rely on it for performance, including a number of other functions other than logging, but there are other activities that are important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u110	Thank you. Madam Minister, would you like to use the back? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u111	Professor Bachvarova, let me disagree with your conclusions. I believe that, in the context of this crisis, with this deficit of resources, we are to support state-owned forest enterprises for which there is a cost reduction toolbox, overcoming the crisis of resources that have accumulated, it is absolutely illogical and there is no explanation. Yeah, if we had enough resources to meet all the needs, we'd probably do that, too. I would like to assure you that the implementation of forestry activities such as preparation, afforestation and other planned for 2020 are on schedule, rhythmically according to business plans. We have indeed suspended, for example, the purchase of fixed assets, other costs, so that these two months can be overcome. It's no more than that. Once again, everyone will lose. We cannot look in this support for someone to realize incomes. We've reduced the numbers for the fund in the forests. They have accumulated budgets. They're even unusable. I believe that, against the background of the consequences of this crisis on sectors such as "Fruids"............................................................................................... Yes, everyone needs it, but I say again: the purpose of this support is to remain operators in the sector and after the crisis. We're not in that hypothesis here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u112	Thank you. We move on to the final question of today's parliamentary control. It is the MP Smilyana Niva-Krusteva, about a command post to combat hails in Haskovo. Here you are, Mrs. Niva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u113	Dear Minister, the fallen hail in recent weeks in the Haskovo region has destroyed some of the farmers' crops. There is a command post for fighting hails built in 2019 and officially opened by you, its total value and rocket sites is about 1 million. BGN, which had to protect from hail almost half a million acres of arable areas in the area. One year after this investment, hail has destroyed crops and crops that municipalities have yet to calculate. The hail has destroyed 80% of the favorite harvest. Over 300 acres of watermelons and melons have been completely destroyed in the Chayrite area. My question is this: how effective is the built anti-urban system in Haskovo the year after its discovery and how much money has been spent to sustain it? How does it work, and why hasn't it worked?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u114	Thank you, Ms. Niva. Madam Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u115	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mrs. Niva, I cannot agree with your inference. I'm gonna explain this, and I'm gonna motivate myself. Let's step on the data first. With regard to the data presented by you on the destroyed areas of the last hail in Haskovo region, we have submitted applications for 100% destroyed areas for 80 acres. These are the official data from the farmers requested. What's the situation yesterday, June 16th? For Haskovo District or with the command deck there, a territory of 1 million shall be protected. 900,000. Dekara, 16 impacts have been made, 99 clouds have been processed, 1534 missiles launched. From the last event you speak of, we have applications for 80 acres 100%, completely destroyed areas. For the past year, the season has a very strong intensity for Haskovo. For the whole season for 2019, there are 23 impacts, with only 107 clouds, I compare it against the background of this on June 16th, with 984 launches, that is, we only have almost a double increase in the intensity of the applications by June 16th. One hundred percent completely destroyed areas for last year we have 557 acres, i.e. I mean, we are still behind statistics even last year, which in intensity in this area was significantly weaker. In general, for the country, what is the situation on June 16th? 138 impacts were made, 657 clouds were processed, 6202 missiles launched, and the only damage to 100% were those 80 acres in Haskovo region. For 2019, for comparison, the Agency has made 270 impacts of 1241 clouds, 10 842 rockets have been launched and as a result of the protected territories there are 100% destroyed areas of 792 acres of total protected territory in Bulgaria 21 million. $800,000. Dekara. Dear Mrs. Niva, none of the methods of impact with rockets, planes or ground generators give or report 100% efficiency in any of the methods. Unfortunately, in your area this year, it is indeed a very intense process, and the event you are talking about, the cloud that has entered the protected territory, has already been shaped too large nipples, which is why this damage has been established. However, the data displayed by protected and unprotected territory is unparalleled as an effect on farmers and as damage that it has if the territory is unprotected. Moreover, all who are 100% down, of course, will also benefit from the State aid that we apply and which was paid in the same calendar year last year.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u116	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mrs. Nieva, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u117	Dear Minister, I am not satisfied with your response despite the statistics you presented on the case for the country. Curiously, one of the missiles fell in front of the stadium in Harmanli, exploded on the asphalt, and the other fell in a private yard. And I have the question: do you shoot the citizens with these missiles, or do you shoot the clouds to fight the hail?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u118	I don't think there's any reason for the duvet. Thank you, fellow Members! With this issue, we have exhausted today's parliamentary control agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u119	There's one more question I need to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-18.u120	The other one's written. It's been downloaded and filed for written response. I will introduce you to parliamentary control reports for June 19, 2020, Friday: 1. Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev will answer two questions from the MPs Ivo Hristov and Dora Yankova. 2. The Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov will answer a question from the MPs Aleksandar Paunov and Anton Kutev; and a question from the MPs Rumen Gechev and Georgi Svilenski. 3. The Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov will answer a question from the MP Krum Zarkov and a question from the MPs Rosen Malinov and Ivan Ivanov. 4. Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva will respond to two questions of the MPs Georgi Gokov, Christian Vigenin and Vessela Lecheva and Iskren Veselinov and Alexander Siddi. 5. Economy Minister Emil Karanikolov will answer a question from the MP Dora Yankova. 6. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova will answer three questions from the MPs Dean Stanchev, Dzhevdet Chakarov and Hayri Sadakov and Ivan Chenchev and Dimitar Danchev. 7. The Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov will answer a question from the MP Polina Tsakova-Hristova. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev of a question by the MPs Evdokiya Asenova and Veska Nencheva; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mrs. Petya Avramova to two questions from the MPs Dora Yankova, Krum Zarkov and Georgi Stoilov. Due to the use of sick leave, the Minister of Tourism Ms. Nikolina Angelkova will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. The next regular plenary session, honourable Members, is tomorrow, 19 June 2020 at 9.00 in accordance with the adopted National Assembly Work Programme. Due to the exhaustion of the agenda, I am adjourning today's meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]]
