ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Messages: Yesterday, on 4 March 2020, received and sent to the MPs a general draft of the bills for amendment and supplement of the Law on Construction of the territory adopted on the first vote on 27 February 2020. The project was drawn up by the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government on the grounds of art. 81, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that in implementation of art. 65, para. 1 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria has, by its order, authorised the dispatch and use of an aircraft with crew of military personnel from the Air Force to carry out special flights to provide air transport for the needs of the Ministry of Defence, as follows: - on 4 March 2020: Sofia Airport, Zagreb Airport, Republic of Croatia; - on 5 March 2020: Zagreb Airport, Republic of Croatia "Sofia Airport." In accordance with the provisions of the Law, the competent state authorities have been notified. The notification was received on 4 March 2020 with entry No 003-09-23 and was made available to the Defence Committee. Colleagues, we are continuing with the first item on our agenda. Mr. Chukolov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u2	Thank you, Madam President. [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u3	Please be quiet in this room, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u4	Dear colleagues! During the last week, very incriminating facts have been presented against Deputy Prime Minister Karakachanov, whom we will hear in a few moments on the first point of our program today. Therefore, I suggest that the hearing be reflected on the Bulgarian National Television and Bulgarian National Radio. Mr. Karakachanov has the right to come here and explain to the Bulgarian people...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u5	I understand your procedure, Mr. Chukolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u6	I see he's got stories in pictures. [[A computer presentation has been prepared.]] Please, this is serious. Don't laugh. It's about this man's political future, the political future of his IMRO formation... [[The President Tsveta Karayancheva turns off the microphones. People's representative Desislav Chukolov continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u7	I understand your procedure, Mr. Chukolov. I'll put it to the vote, of course. Mr. Simeonov has a proposal back. Only by procedure, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u8	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I strongly oppose the adoption and vote on such a proposal, as this is about the most elementary defamation campaign in the style of my colleagues from Ataka. The facts in question, which have been cited, are not! The facts are when they are proven! Charges become crimes when proven! This elementary alphabet is not to say ethics, you just miss it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u9	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. I understand your procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u10	So we're definitely against broadcasting, or at least asking CNN to broadcast.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u11	I will put to the vote Mr. Chukolov's proposal today's hearing to be broadcast on National Television and National Radio. Please, voting mode. They voted 183 MPs: 88, against 60, abstention 35. The offer is not accepted. We move on to: HEARING OF A DEPUTY MINISTER THE PRINCIPLE IN THE PUBLIC AND SECURITY AND MINISTER OF THE CROSSIMIR KARAKACHANOV DECIDE 113 OF THE RULES ON THE ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION ON THE EXECUTIVE DEALS OF THE MINISTERAGE OF THE CALLED EMPLOYMENT, AS AND HIS CADR POLICY. Importers Desislaw Chukolov, Pavel Shopov and Stanislav Stanilov, 28 February 2020. Here you are for five minutes to give us an exhibition, Mr. Chukolov. Colleagues, I ask that we observe the time when I give you a signal to navigate towards the conclusion of the speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u12	Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Karakachanov, we have called you here today to give information about the properties that your Ministry sells at prices at times below their market value. Properties.sales under which your signature stands. Here to explain also the personnel policy you are imposing as a senior coalition partner of GERB; about the threats you have made, because there have also been such threats; and attempts on your part to practically win immunity of the proposed personnel of senior, leading positions in the management of our country. But let's do it in a row. The properties that are being sold under their market valuation. What is the meaning of devoid of necessity? Property that's no longer used. If Ivan Kostov had thought of this cynical expression in the 1990s, he would have talked about companies with a weak necessity. That's extremely cynical. The next one could be people with a dead end. In this way we cannot treat state property in this case property of the Bulgarian People's Army in the past, now of the Bulgarian Army, property of the Bulgarian people, built, bought, bought with the labor of the Bulgarian people. We do not accept this definition of what you give that these sales had begun during past governments. Yes, such deals have been made, unfortunately, but they are also done at your time. Whenever these deals started, you were finishing them off. When you see that such a deal is bad for the Bulgarian national interest, that obviously the property is sold so cheaply, and break it down, do it again! If there is a corruption moment, point it out, file with the prosecution! I remember years ago, there were some such doubts about corruption at the time Prime Minister Borisov broke entire deals that had already been given to the GP Group, which other companies. If there's any doubt, it breaks down and starts all over again. After all, these transactions may have started with previous governments, but you have signed the order for them, or, as they say, the transactions, they are initialized by you. In the media, you say, Mr. Karakachanov, that this is not about appetizing properties, as you see, here and Simeonov, and he calls that from Ataka we make these things up. On the contrary, we are talking about appetizing properties on the Bulgarian Black Sea coast; about properties in industrial areas where there are millions of enterprises, as will be seen later; about properties in the ideal center of Bulgarian cities. Well, these properties have been sold very, very, very cheap at times cheaper. When you say that the Bulgarian Army, the Ministry of Defence should make a certain contribution to the state budget, these properties with a devoid need are used to fill the budget. Let me remind you that there are properties with a strategic need - these are the American bases, which are four in Bulgaria. They were Bulgarian bases, but these Bulgarian bases became American, as Mr. Karakachanov said in 2014 in the programme "Referendum." For these US bases for the 14 years in which they are used by America, in the roughest estimates, about 4 billion dollars should be imported into the Bulgarian budget. Then we won't be dealing with any millions. We need to sell some gold property to get into the budget. Because the U.S. Army, the U.S. State, is not paying for those bases it uses here. Reference in other countries where America has bases check, just like that from a common culture, how much the US pays to these countries to use their facilities. Millions and billions pay. At the time when we were forming the coalition, I don't remember you saying, "When I become Minister of Defense, I will make deals, I will sell Bulgarian properties." I don't remember you saying that because if you did, we wouldn't have agreed to raise you as Secretary of Defense. We wouldn't have agreed in any way. By making these deals, didn't you ever think that the property market has its own specifics? There can be no anonymous clerk who neither makes a declaration to the KKCONPI nor to the Court of Auditors nor is subject to any more meticulous report which is absolutely anonymous to the general public to conduct transactions for millions!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u13	Guide to completion, Mr. Chukolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u14	Didn't you realize that a man like that can't make these deals? Contact an external consultant: he will tell you when it should be sold when it should not be sold, at what price it should not be sold at what price.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u15	Time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u16	There are more questions that we will ask you about the personnel appointments, and with interest we will follow your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chukolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u18	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u19	We're only 13 seconds overdue, Mr. Angelov. I'm watching. You come in the manner of conduct, but for the time being, you can't blame me because I strictly respect it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! In the manner of conduct, because two thirds of the speech of the speaker was not related to the subject! I don't know why you allow as Chairman of the Assembly and host today's meeting to speak on any other subject and not on what they have asked for. From his statement, we have only learned that the party "Attack" is already a party with no need. That's it. [[Applause from OP.]] He just forgot to say they support the DPS!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u21	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. I can't interrupt the speaker at the moment he's doing his exhibition. So thank you for the remark, but I don't accept it. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, please come in and make your presentation within ten minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Unrespectable sir, from your exhibition, confused and sucked out of your fingers, it has become clear that you are not at all in the class for what you are asking a question, and from your media appearances it has become clear that you are looking for a cheap political dividend. If you, after 15 years in Parliament, with an MP's salary, are not clear by law what is the meaning of what the needless person means, in which law and how it is described, and you ask the question here, then obviously the Bulgarian taxpayer 15 years has paid you one of the biggest salaries in the country unjustly!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u23	Mr. Karakachanov, please proceed to the exhibition.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u24	But to explain to you, I have prepared him to explain to you slowly and intoxicately. After the reforms in the Bulgarian Army in the period after 1991, after the reduction of personnel and units in the Bulgarian Army, up to now the Ministry of Defence is forming a significant resource of properties that have been devoid of necessity for the office, i.e. properties that are closed and not used! These properties are former barracks, polygons, airports, subblock spaces and so on. The sale of properties with a devoid of necessity is carried out under the Law on State Property. I repeat: it is carried out in accordance with the Law on State Property and the Rules on its Implementation! A number of activities are carried out before the realization, such as: change of the initial status from public to private state property after a decision of the Council of Ministers since you are talking about some anonymous officials. I explain to you the order after 15 years, if you have not learned it, to explain it to you after a decision of the Council of Ministers is validated by acts of private state ownership by the district managers of the location of the property and a number of other activities allowing this realization. In the Department of Defense, these properties are sold by bidding. In the Ministry of Defence, an advanced documentary readiness plan shall be prepared annually, which shall be validated by the Minister of Defence and made public on the website of the Office. They're being made public! In the relevant year, specific procedures shall also be conducted for which, according to the legal provisions, tenders are published for scheduled auctions on the Ministry's website and in two national daily newspapers at least 30 days before the deadline for submission of requests for participation. The advertisement describes details of the property, its location, the initial auction price, description of the property, area, deposit, place, date and time of the auction. If one of the best lawyers in Bulgaria had asked me behind my back, you wouldn't have embarrassed yourself! The starting tender price shall be determined according to art. 88 of the Rules for the Implementation of the State Property Act and could not be lower. It cannot be lower than the tax valuation increased by ten percent with the included book value of the facilities permanently attached to the property, which also increases the price by ten percent. The price of the next auction shall not be reduced at any time for a given property. The price of the next auction shall remain the same. I'm gonna cut short because we don't have time. The procedures for the sale of properties with a reduced need shall be implemented in accordance with the State Property Act and its Rules of Procedure. The control of these procedures is through the administration of the Ministry, the Internal Audit Office, the Ministry of Defence Inspectorate, the Military Police Office and the International Office of the Court of Auditors, the Military Prosecutor's Office, the State Agency of National Security. So there's both internal and external control. I'll give you one reference because you claim many properties, appetizing properties. You mention islands, peninsulas, archipelagos, central appetizing properties. You're probably mistaken for the Crimean Peninsula or Chukotka, but I'll give you the data now. [[Noise, laughter.]] Please release slide one, see over the years! [[Initiating computer presentation.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u25	It's already been published.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u26	I give you the following information: for the period 2001 - 2008 under the procedures, a total of 392 properties have been sold for seven years. For the period 2009 to date, 196 properties have been sold in Annex No 1. For the period since I am the Minister of Defence two years and ten months, for 2017 ten properties have been sold, of which one part have been inherited as a procedure by the minister of service and by the previous minister of defense, the procedure has passed, I only have to sign the contract. Ten properties, though! In 2018, ten procedures have been opened with my order, but only two properties have been sold. In 2019 four properties were sold. In total, for these nearly three years, since I am a minister, sixteen properties have been sold. Please give the properties to the reference, see if there are islands, peninsulas, archipelagos, yellow pavements and anything else! Can I have the second slide, please? The comparative analysis clearly shows that at the time when I was a minister, there was no sale or oversale of property. On the contrary, if you have memorized the previous graph, you will see that in my day at least the properties have been sold for each year separately, and in general, if you want, as a term up to now. Your first indictment, which you are running in the media publicly, does not correspond to the truth here my colleagues are telling me that it is actually a lie. There's no mass sale of property with no need! Your second claim that islands, peninsulas, archipelagos, yellow pavements are being sold and I do not know what the second reference shows that this is also not true. Another addition. For the first time, Minister of Defense is returning properties to the Ministry of Defense. For the first time 56 acres, which were given to Pomorie Municipality, were returned to the Ministry's property. Six properties in Plovdiv, almost in the center, over 90 acres were returned. My policy as Secretary of Defense was not to sell, unrespectful sir, but to store...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u27	Please respectfully treat the MP!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u28	...and it's clear from the facts that I'm exposing you. And since you mention in the media properties on the Black Sea coast, you mention Chervenka and so on I have them here somewhere written your claims, none of these properties, visible from the graphics that come out, have been sold. It's not sold! On the contrary, my policy is not to sell the properties, but to store them, which, of course, also cost us a lot of money, because for years, every year we pay for security, and our policy here is to protect ourselves from the Ministry of Defense and less than private companies. With regard to the properties, the Ministry of Defense has behaved with the care of a good owner. On the contrary, my idea not to sell these properties is because there are about 3,500 soldiers in the country who do not have a home. My idea for these properties is not to be sold in pieces or given to municipalities, but on these properties, during the procedure for a given right to construction, the Ministry of Defense to acquire housing in garrisons where we have sharp needs. Only in Sofia are 1200 mapped servicemen who do not have homes and the Ministry of Defence, respectively the budget of the state, pays rents, provided there are properties on which they can be built against a given right of construction and not against the money of the Ministry of Defence. That's my policy. I'm not going to enumerate you because you don't really care about facts and other things you don't really care about. Your goal is to try, like your first hero from 15 years ago, and your last hero from the last 7 years of Stalin...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u29	Mr. Karakachanov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u30	...to impose a lie, repeat it 10 times, or 110 times, and try to make this lie true. I call on you: go out and tell me which island we have spoken about, which islands we have sold, which peninsulas, for the archipelagos you will explain to me in the geography of Bulgaria where there are such islands where we have sold properties at sea? [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u31	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Shopov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u32	Madam President, honourable Members! And Minister Karakachanov went into the tone of the showers of Ataka 15 years ago, who accused us of everything! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u33	In the manner of conduct, Mr. Shopov!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u34	That's the way to lead! There, you interrupted me! [[Noise and lines.]] You should have interrupted Karakachanov when he was throwing accusations at us about our heroes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u35	I made a remark to the Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u36	That was the illusion, that was the claim! Why didn't you interrupt him?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u37	I made an observation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u38	No, you didn't notice him!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u39	Don't talk to me like that, Mr. Shopov! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u40	You're interrupting me!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u41	In the manner of conduct, Mr. Shopov, what is the problem?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u42	Madam President, be equal. [[noise and lines]] , be balanced when you lead the meetings! Then, when we from the Ataka insult us, we are silent, with the approval of the leaders you smile at the stands, and then, when... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u43	Please, please, colleagues...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u44	...someone is insulting us...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u45	...let there be peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u46	... You keep quiet and don't say anything!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u47	I said, Mr. Shopov I asked Mr. Karakachanov to respectfully treat the MPs. We're moving on to the circle of questions. First question from the parliamentary group of GERB come in, Mr. Gazhev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u48	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, in order to make any sense of this procedure, I would like to ask you a question which you have actually addressed in your exposé. Even in the election programs, both GERB and the United Patriarchs took up the concept of the receding right of construction................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. This is also part of the social package that we are trying to develop in the government this term. This measure is also enshrined in the Government's Management Programme and therefore taken as a priority. I would like you to provide information on how far it has come to be, what are the plans that have been drawn up and when procedures are expected to begin, so that we can still resolve the problem of accommodation of the servicemen. Thank you. [[General applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u49	Thank you, dear Mr. Gadget. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u50	Do we have a reference on the filings? Yeah. If you could just let her go. [[(Replys from BSP for Bulgaria]] Annex 3, I think it is. Maped employees are in the exact number of.. 3324, this is at the end of 2019. By the way, it is very true Mr. Gazhev in the Defence Committee has several times been about these things. The leadership of the Defence Committee has repeatedly raised the issue.. when we conducted the policy on raising incomes, which was a positive policy that improved the trend for filling the neocompletion in the army, the second year in a row the incompletion is filled out, of course, not in those sizes it has reached, but last year there are about 400 people more, 2018 there are about 157 people more. Besides an increase in wages, i.e. income, the other very important factor in servicemen is the social package that can be received by the households and possibly their children to use nursery and kindergartens. Because that's what a serviceman gets for, say, from Yambol, you move him to Sofia. He currently receives BGN 150 to cover part of his rent. In Yambol with that money he may be covering half his rent, but with 150 levs. in Sofia this person cannot cover a quarter of it. In fact, even though you're promoting him in rank and position, you're taking away part of his reward because he's paying more. For this reason, we will do and we have done it, Deputy Minister Zaprianov is working on this issue, he is ready a classification of the cities with rents, roughly on average, and for example in the major cities where the rents are more expensive, we will cover most of the rent that the servicemen pay because otherwise we damage it. The other problem that arises is when you move the serviceman from Yambol or from Pleven to Sofia or Plovdiv, there is no place for his child in kindergarten. We have several kindergartens that are at the Department of Defense, but they're not enough. And that's exactly why an estimate was made for the whole country. First of all, we've done the alphabetization of the settlements, where there are needs in the garrison. And you can see it: where the big garrisons are now read Count Ignatievo. 122. Yeah, but there's another base there -- Krumovo -- there's one of the special forces there, which means the number isn't 122 for Plovdiv only, but it's much bigger. At the same time, there are some properties that the first graph showed how they were sold in time, perhaps we should have made a graph of how they were given to the municipalities good properties to which housing can be built. At the end of the first year we discussed this issue with the Ministry of Defence, then we commented on it in the Defence Commission instead of selling the properties at whatever price the property is sold at whatever price it is, you can't buy as many homes as you need. The more advantageous option is the given right of construction, where the Ministry of Defence does not invest money, does not touch money, does not hire companies to build to have doubts about corruption, announces it publicly. Three, four, five companies appear in Obelia for example for the property, bid the required percentage is 25 with the right of the construction which gave better conditions, more rates and in a more complete type of housing, he wins. The Department of Defense can acquire some homes within two years to solve these people's housing problems and save itself huge money that is currently paying for rents, and they will become more. That's one. Our design, as some of the properties are large, including in Sofia there are two or three such large ones, one is 54 acres in Obelia. Fifty-four acres! That's where the subway goes. It's communicative now. The compensation will be enormous. To this compensation should be added either a kindergarten or kindergarten as required by Sofia Municipality, so that when the serviceman leaves for work in the morning, he can take the child to the first floor in kindergarten, take the car or the subway, go to work, go back to work and pick it up, not wonder where to write it. In Sofia there is a shortage of places in kindergartens, and not only in Sofia, it is so in the big cities. Let's solve two problems with one bullet. That's our strategy. This has been discussed since we wrote the Management Program. In this management programme there is a clear text to improve the social status of Bulgarian servicemen. [[Reply.]] And an increase in remuneration separately. This includes not only an increase in remuneration, but also an improvement in the social status that every soldier deserves in order for a Bulgarian soldier, whether he is a private or a general, to know that he is at work or fulfilling his duties, or when he is on a mission, does not think about his domestic problems. His wife has a place, his kids have a place, his kids have kindergarten, and that's fair. After 1991, a small part of the houses were sold, i.e. given to entitled ones. There are also violations in the 1990s, they come out from time to time, but they are single, it cannot be said that it was mass practice. The other thing we have done, Mr. Gajev, not only with the right to build, are those apartments that are in such poor condition and are old property used by one, by the second, by the third in the years. There's no way you can put anyone in there. They are about 150 such apartments "about two thirds are in Sofia, the others are in some of the large garrisons. 150 apartments are empty because there's no way you can accommodate a serviceman. He's got to throw at least 10 grand. lv. At least for one repair, and there's no way to get them out and he doesn't have to do it. This is already a fact of politics. These 150 apartments have already been renovated and people are staying there. We haven't done it in public with ribbon cutting and handing out keys because I think it's not necessary, but it's practically already done. This is part of the social policy package. That is precisely why I am returning to graph No 1. The properties were sold at least, and some of which were placed in previous years one, twice in auctions and did not appear any people. One of the cases mentioned is the town of Ruse. This property was released in the city of Ruse 2016. It's not 150 acres, as some people lie, it's 15 or 16 acres. In 2016, he was released, no one showed up. In 2017, he was released, appeared only one and gained weight. And the price isn't funny, it's 4 million. And close to 100,000. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of 92,000. lv. Another property mentioned was sold at BGN 52. the square meter of unregulated area, but there are properties that were once launched as procedures, and cannot be removed from this list, so they have been released, but are realized on the basis of bidding. I can quote you, here I've pulled cases where there are properties that ten times nine or ten participants appear. Ten times the price goes up. Ten times! At auction as an auction, the highest bidder wins. But these are properties in industrial areas or agricultural land outside regulation, outside the garrisons where we need housing. That's it! The rest of you, I can give you a reference to how much money is paid to guard 12, 13, 15 million a year, not to go through the papers. Why pay to guard something and pay taxes when it's somewhere where you can't build homes, and there's no garrison around 20, 30, 50 kilometers. You pay his taxes, you pay his security, you sell him, you take some money, they go into the budget. From this budget, the Ministry of Defense's budget is filled, because then that money comes back to us. It's Department of Defense policy. We intend to do this trial that Mr. Gajev asks about, as publicly as possible. They'll be announced first in the Defense Committee, then through the media, then we'll put them on the site. Eight or nine properties are in Sofia. The six properties I told you about in Plovdiv, which we took back, which were given to the Office, she had committed no actions and we recovered the property. In those areas, for example, Pomorie, the property we recovered, 56 acres, there is no need for military housing in the city. There, once again, a social rest home or something like that, a nursing home for former servicemen could be asked to be built. You build it and you provide them, because the other problem is the breaks. In the 1990s, some of the rest stations were sold or so neglected that they were unusable. Report Vitosha Station for 10 years, 12 years, 15 years not functioning, semi-destructed. We don't have 15 million to take out to repair it, we'll give it to the Privatization Agency to implement it. It's wanted, we give it to it, the money will come back for something else. But where you can, you give it where you don't have housing needs, you build a rest home, a nursing home, there are elderly military pensioners widowers, no families left, and so on, who also need someone to take care of them. This is my vision of social policy. And it will be done in the most public way, including as consultants for the process and the procedure will be used leading European and global companies to have absolutely no doubt and not dream of some people islands, peninsulas, archipelagos and so on. But where the Red Rider's hooves tinkle in his head, it can't be fixed. Thank you. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u51	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. First question from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. Here you go, Mr. Milev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u52	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence! The huge funds allocated to security in recent years by the Ministry of Defence have led to the establishment of a company called MOBA, a structure of the Ministry, which still provides work for service-free servicemen. You yourself mentioned, Mr. Minister, that an annual security detail of about 12.5 million and about 2.5 million for management, a total of about 15 million per year. But security costs do not decrease, but increase for explainable reasons, as they grow, of course, both wages and social security. Property in general is also constantly decapitalising and losing its value. Huge terrains don't wake up appetites for anyone. Municipalities are giving up on them due to the lack of sufficient funds in their budgets. There are only such funds in foreign companies that will buy our land for an unknown purpose. There are a few valuable properties left that we're talking about, especially around the big cities. The outcome is in a government decision to form an agency to take over the unnecessary properties and free the Ministry of Defense from the obligation to manage them, sell them and guard them. But the Ministry of Defence, which has spent billions on these properties over the years, needs to receive compensation from the realization of the properties by this agency and these funds to go to a fund for modernization of the Bulgarian army. Apparently, the current practice for sales funds to go to the Department of Defense...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u53	The question, Mr. Milev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u54	...turned out to be dysfunctional and didn't stimulate the Ministry to get rid of the property in the interest of the country's defence. My question to you, Mr. Minister, is to further develop what short-term and long-term measures are envisaged in terms of properties with a reduced need for their accelerated realization at market prices? You also mentioned the transparency process, but also how will you use the public-private partnership in this area? I can say that we have experience with these kindergartens in Karlovo and Kazanlak and can go this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u55	Thank you, dear Mr. Milev. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u56	Dear Madam President, dear Mr Milev, honourable colleagues! Now I will give you the exact data for the last three years "2017," 2018 and 2019, for security. For security of the properties with the need for 2017 under the budget of the Ministry, 15 million were spent. 477 thousand. lv.; 2018 The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with 341 thousand. lv.; 2019 The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question 436 thousand. lv. You yourself noticed that the amount was increasing. It's growing because the minimum wage is increasing. Moba Company. Our quest as a policy and this is my order to the deputy minister, as it is 100% owned by the Ministry of Defence, is not a private company, it is practically a state firm. It is to take over from year to year a maximum number of properties. That, of course, depends on the people you can hire for that kind of work. In the last three years, the participation of the state-owned defence company MOBA for security of our properties is an increasing percentage at the expense of private companies. This is a discontent in the private sector, but in the end, I am thinking this way: with the Ministry's money you feed employees of the Ministry, and these employees are former servicemen. 90% are former servicemen, people who have given their lives in the army, retired, their pensions are not that big, and now they get extra pay, working in this company MOBA as security guards. It's part of social policy for the people who left the army. It is hardly possible, in my opinion, that it is not possible to monitor the processes of 100% all properties of the Ministry of Defence to be guarded by this company. It has to become huge, and we see that there are many large companies on the market that with huge incomes are competition. After all, you're also required here for security to announce a procedure, and you can't directly say that it's not going to be a private firm. You have to follow the law. Regarding your idea of this fund. This is an old idea that we have discussed and commented on two to three in the Defence Commission with you. Here there is another danger if these properties go to one such national authority, they will be sold. I gave you an example of the estate in Ruse for 4 million. lv. Four million leva actually, or 50 million a year, they don't fix anything. But for example, the property in Obelia, it is a more accurate example, how much will we sell it to the decare? How much is 100 euros per square meter? 100 leva, 100 euros, it is not regulated. Let's say 100 euros to get it, 150 to get it, we'll get some 10 million. With 10. 15 million. How many euros will we buy? Much less, as the market value of the homes is already 800. 900 euros per square meter in these areas of Sofia. 80, 100 squares of your apartment comes out 80, 90, 100 thousand. Euros. How many apartments are you gonna buy? And they'll be one here, the other there or two in the entrance and so on. I don't mind those properties that weigh on the Ministry's budget anyway, because we're just guarding them, and even when you auction them, no one comes to look after them, no one else is on our backs. However, the properties on which housing can be built, or this body that you are talking about, this national agency is aware and it is ordered by law that the properties to which housing can be carried out will be granted a right of construction for the needs of the Ministry of Defence. Respectfully, if there is such a property in the Ministry of Transport, let it be for railway employees, or at the Ministry of Interior, let it be for the police, and not for sale just like that, because no matter how much money you take, you will buy a much smaller number of homes with them that you need. I'm telling you, 1,200 are only in Sofia, and these are for uniforms. I'm not talking about agency employees and other civilians, so this idea needs to be carefully considered. I don't mind finding the cleanest option. The question with me and my main idea is with these properties to satisfy the housing needs of the people working at the Ministry of Defense, and this is the right approach in my opinion. Part of your question covered Mr. Gazhev's question, but that's normal, we're on the same committee and these things are being commented on was official, it was unofficial. Did I miss something, I apologize? Thank you very much. That's my answer to that question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u57	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. The Parliamentary Group will not take advantage of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Mr. Simeonov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u58	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Mr. Karakachanov! My question relates rather to the procedure itself for selling or dealing with such properties. You have described very well the order that all this is done under the State Property Act and by a decision of the Council of Ministers, and in this procedure can also participate countries that are affected, interested or responsible, related to state property. My specific question is as follows: in the formation of the government's governance, the coalition government, the party "Attack" participates proportionately and at present continues to participate with representatives in the executive power of the minister, six deputy ministers, district governors, deputy district governors and so on. My specific question is: in the vote on specific transactions, their approval by the Council of Ministers, how did the representatives of the Council of Ministers vote on them, did they support them, did they object, did they protest? Also from the reference that was presented, we have seen that there are only two sold properties: one on the territory of Sofia-city, and one property on the territory of Sofia-district. The district governor of Sofia-city is a representative of Ataka, the district governor of Sofia-district is a representative of Ataka. Did they protest, did they object, did they signal? Did they react to all these deals? Explain to us what was the behavior of our former partners' representatives. What do you think: why this behavior was like this and what happened, that until now they've been silent like bagpipes...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u59	The weather, Mr. Simeonov!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u60	...and from here on out, they have a claim?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u61	Mr. Simeonov, please! I'm making a note! [[Noise and lines from non-members in SG.]] Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u62	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Mr Simeonov! I hadn't thought of that angle at the debate. That cheered me up. In fact, the representatives of the party "Ataka" in the government have always supported and voted for. Every case, you know, goes into coordination between the ministries. In other words, any minister, as well as myself, if it comes to another proposal, for a decision, I can object. I have objected two or three times, as you know, on the subject of the Istanbul Convention and other things, and there is a debate at the Council of Ministers. In no case has there been any objection from my colleague Mr Karanikov, who, by the way, is an extremely honest professional, nor from the district managers, who are also from Ataka. I'd forgotten that fact. In fact, their attitude was that they were almost opposition and I had forgotten that they were actually real in power. You're right! They have a minister, six deputy ministers, two district governors, six deputy governors, one bank manager, if memory serves, and many other such posts. Here, however, they behave as opposition. I will answer your question, what is it due to? [[Reply from the National Representative Alexander Pawnov.]] Mr. Pawnov, I'll explain it from a Marxist-Leninian point of view. They pretend to be Mensheviks or Trotskys, or I don't know?! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u63	Mr. Karakachanov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u64	But in general, what is it due to? It's because sociology doesn't catch them. They are angry that the United Patriarchs are moving forward and they are not in jazz, as they say, the radio does not catch them. And that's why they're trying to have similar slanders, because it's slander, with such slanders, repeating a lie, as I said, like Goebbels and Stalin thousands of times, to get the impression that there's something rotten here, and they're the wrestlers. I didn't hear them here, not in the Council of Ministers, nor when they were in our coalition, to object to anything. I won't mention other things I can't prove, you know what I'm talking about. That's my explanation: they think that by spitting on their partner yesterday, they will win. Both the European elections and the local elections showed whether this tactic was correct, but this is what they can do, nothing else they have learned in 15 years in parliament. That's what I think. If anyone feels offended, I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u65	Don't qualify, Mr. Karakachanov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u66	Excuse me, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u67	We are continuing with questions from the party Here you go, Mr. Netsov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u68	Honourable President, honourable Members, Mr. Minister and Deputy Prime Minister! To many of the questions that interest the Bulgarian society, you answered at the very beginning. However, I would like to ask you a question: why is there a lack of information about the sale of properties to the Ministry of Defense? The reason for this is that they have not been updated since last year and we are already March. In addition, there is no information available to the public about the properties whose status will be changed and the owner must also be changed. The latest information about this on the site of the Ministry of Defence is for 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u69	Thank you, dear Mr. Netsov. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u70	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mr Netsov! As I said, as soon as the first question was answered, all this information was first announced on the Ministry of Defense's website. Then, having entered as an item on the agenda for the transformation of a property, is on the website of the Council of Ministers. It is then published on the site of the Ministry of Defence plus in two national daily newspapers 30 days before the auction takes place. The property is published what it is, how many acres it is, in regulation or not in regulation, if there is an area built on it, isn't there, what condition it is in 30 days earlier. The person who is interested has companies that monitor what the offices sell, there is no way that this thing can be announced to be read as a reporter on any of the national television stations. Thirty days prior to the procedure is published in two national daily newspapers and on the website of the Ministry. As I confirm the annual sales plan for, for example, ten properties, as you can see, only two have been sold, I've only let two sell. This list as soon as approved by the Minister is also published on the Ministry's website, i.e. interested parties can obtain information on what properties are announced for this year. And when the procedure begins, as I have already said, 30 days before the procedure is carried out, it is further published in two national daily newspapers, plus on the Ministry of Defence's website. That's the legal requirement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u71	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Next, a question from the group of Members of the National Assembly, who are not members of the AG, are entitled to one question. Mr. Chukolov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u72	Mr. Karakachanov, asking questions is not slander. This thing needs to be clear. I will specifically point to transactions for which I want an answer from you: yes, no, no. Not common lacrosse. We're not sitting here eating meatballs and steaks, drinking vodka. Question: Are they sold by you, is your signature under a deal for 115 decares in the Plovdiv municipality of Kuklen, the locality of Kapsida and 830 thousand. lv. "7.20 BGN" of sq. Huh? Yes or no, does your signature stand there? If your signature stands under a deal of 16.3 decares in Kuklen municipality, the locality of Kapsida, sold for 161 thousand. lv.? Nine leva and ninety pennies a square meter! It's like a promotion. Is your signature there yes or no? I want to hear it from this tribune. Also: Nessebar, 96.2 decares sold for just over 5 million, with 14 buildings with a total built-up area above the decare between, notice, two hotels: hotel "Sol Nessebar Bay and Mare" and "Sol Nessebar Palace." Is this appetizing property? Are these properties in the Kuklen municipality tasty?! They are close to the airport, all communication is there, industrial, industrial zone, enterprise after enterprise for tens of millions are built there, price jumps monthly. The properties there are gold, say the real estate brokers.................................. real estate agents................................................................................. How much is a property like that worth there? What does it say here? [[Shows reference.]] Five million euros worth of property there! These properties you're selling are seven times, five times, four times lower than their market value. In Ruse, we're both from Ruse and we know what this is about. The former Military Hospital, sold for four times lower than the sale price. Sold for about 200 leva. of sq. M, if I'm not mistaken, and there the prices are about 800 BGN. In the perfect center of Ruse. For these deals, I want you to give me an answer. In October, you say thousands of properties are sold, they're on the list for sale. In August of last year you say you will sell these peninsulas. You're ironic, yes, I understand that: archipelagos, islands and so on. No! There are specific data that are exported by the media even because we work with public information. We don't work with information like you've worked in secret over the years. Here, Minister, I'll leave it here for you. Here are these four questions about these four properties, please answer me: yes, no, no, is your signature under these transactions?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u73	Thank you, dear Mr. Chukolov. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u74	You forgot some papers.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u75	He left them for you as a clue.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u76	Listening on TV, I know what you're going to ask me and I've prepared myself. Property in the town of Kuklen, the locality of Kapsida, Plovdiv district, with an area of 16 deka 313 sq. M, sold for 161 thousand. 130 BGN, without VAT is the price. How did you see them two or three levs? Here comes 10 leva. of sq. m. Calculate 16 decares at 161 thousand. lv. Nine contestants have made their appearances. Nine! I mean, the suggestion, I think you should have learned that someone could make the auction hidden, covered, for a reason I said: 30 days before the auction was announced. I gave you a hint for a reason, so you wouldn't go into your own trap, that sometimes there would be more participants. The reference shall state the starting price. Return the property reference to the auction is visible. Nine contestants showed up. I think the market determines demand, not you. In nine contestants, two have gained a great deal. One of them got to 256,000. 800 BGN, but then he quits and wins the second one by 161 thousand. lv. The property is not regulated. It can be used either for agricultural or industrial purposes if someone builds something. So in nine contestants, you tell me that the property was sold for free, and everyone was bidding, everyone figured out how much they could get and how much to give... Nessebar, the area of 96 decares of Kokalu is sold for 5 million. 41,000. lv. without VAT. There was a contestant there. He raised the price by a little, but he showed up. If you think the property is 5 million. Euros, why didn't someone show up to give not 5 million. 41,000. BGN, and to give 5 million, for example. $100,000. lv. Or 6 million. lv.? It's public! You're telling me... I didn't sell it, as you imagine, hinted about meatballs and brandy, something that some of you do every day in a famous metropolitan expensive restaurant, but...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u77	Mr. Karakachanov, please don't deviate from the subject!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u78	...it doesn't happen like in the restaurant here, near the City Council, you eat and pay. It doesn't work like that. It's public. There was a contestant. It raises the price a little bit, but the price is this. If the property were twice as expensive as you claim, perhaps someone would appear and give a little more. He didn't show up! It's for Nessebar, but it's not in Nessebar, it's outside and it's more than a kilometer from the sea. There are no two hotels, five hotels, as you write. What two hotels, what five hotels? In some of the properties there are buildings that are not habitable for a long time, and in fact this deters many of the participants because it buys land, very often outside regulation, for which it has to pay to bring it in, but also buys buildings that are built for nothing 50s and 60s, and it has to pay to bring them down. That's why a lot of people give up because he's practically not getting paid. But I have no right not to appreciate these buildings, they are appreciated. Maybe it's a semi-fallow barn or a warehouse, it's appreciated and put into the price. Because if I don't, you'll have reason to ask me. Now you have no reason! Ruse. You said: our hometown. It's not your hometown, but it's another topic. The tender price is 4 million. lv. There's 18 decares. What 150 acres are you talking about when it's 18 acres? The price at which it was auctioned was 4,59 million. BGN, repeat! I can give you the order numbers, including the company that bought it. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, In the case of a previous Minister of Defence, a procedure has been announced, but no one appears for this super-profit property according to you. In 2016! No one shows up for the super-profit gold property, as you claim. I know where he is. This is the former Fifth Regiment barracks, then it was a military hospital during the time you were not in Ruse. Abandoned property. There's a buyer at the second auction. One! He raises a little bit over the price and buys it for 4 million. Fifty-nine thousand. £830. If you think this property was gold, why didn't you show up at least one more if it was publicly announced? How do you sow these claims? The others you're asking me about are actually two properties for Kuklen. I replied to you. This is not a land in regulation. [[Reply from MP Desislav Chukolov.]] I'm told to answer you? If you want to write in writing, you'll write me a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u79	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Moving on to the second round of questions. From the parliamentary group of GERB? I can't see. From the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria? Mr. Ermenkov, come in with your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u80	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Deputy Chairman of the Council of Ministers and Minister of Defence, I will try to get out of the spicy property theme, which is quite favorable for accusations, excuses and so on, but it seems to me that there are other authorities that need to investigate whether there is anything wrong or not. I will refer to the second part of what you are invited to do here, the personnel policy of the Ministry of Defence, which can be basically divided into two directions. The first, which is also the main one, concerns the solution of the problem of non-completion of personnel in the Bulgarian Army. The second is related to the appointment of soldiers and civilians to senior positions in the Ministry of Defence and the Bulgarian Army. Yesterday we witnessed the adoption of another amendment to the Defence and Armed Forces Act. It was noticed that a lot of concerns arose in the discussion of this law. After all, it did not become clear whether the final result was going to be achieved, which is staked inside. This, by the way, is a concern not only of those who we abstained from accepting it, but I am convinced that it was also a concern of all those who are related to the army. Speaking of the main problem that is related to the Necomplect in the Bulgarian Army, I would like to draw attention to the fact that one of the measures you have taken is the launch of the campaign. The numbers, however, say otherwise. In 2019, there were 729 soldiers admitted, which is 80 people less than 2018, when this campaign was not there. [[Heckling]] At least these are the numbers I have.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u81	The question, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u82	My question is this: is there an analysis of the campaign and what is the effect of it? Is there an impact assessment of the changes that have been initiated over the last three years in order to solve the non-completion? If there is such an assessment, what is it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u83	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u84	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ermenkov, I am pleased that there is such a debate because I am tired of some people who in their lives have not nailed a nail in their lives but have been eating meatballs for 15 years, but not here the cheap ones, but in an expensive restaurant, blaming me. [[Replications from the National Representative Desislav Chukolov.]] Again, people that a nail hasn't stuck in their lives!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u85	On the subject, Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u86	So this debate is good to see how true it is that there are sold islands, peninsulas, archipelagos in flames and so on. You've seen it! In terms of the neocomplect. I don't know these numbers, but perhaps someone did consciously, unconsciously, fool you. I'm not looking at the exact reference, but I think I answered a question from the Blitzcontrol Committee specifically. I will quote from memory, as the reference is not in front of my eyes: those who entered the service for 2018 compared to the previous 2017 are 157 more people. I mean, a small step forward. It's nearly 400 more this year. This is the data, and it's reported by the Defense Headquarters, and I don't count the numbers of the types of armed forces. The other thing that is good in this campaign is not spent on any media, and the same people who are now talking about meatballs, property, archipelagos explained that we have spent millions on media. One dollar! The whole campaign within the framework of some funny money is from the Ministry's budget and it's to move one technique from one city to another to see the people, to come the orchestra, to pay for the road. Everything has been done with the Representative Ensemble of the Armed Forces, the Guardian Representative Spirit Orchestra, participants from the various formations of the Special Forces, land troops, the Air Force. You know, you weren't really that in Pleven, and in Plovdiv the campaign was flying planes to be more attractive. Here is the place to thank the Central Military District and the Deputy Chief of Defence General Iliev, who led this campaign. With so little money, it works. The result, in my opinion, will not be huge even next year, as has already been discussed, to increase wages by another 10%. In three years with 10 times 30%, and in the fourth year with 10% will become 40%. The main issue is not about remuneration. Of course every young man wants to work and wants his work to be better appreciated. The work in the army is a risky profession you as an officer know. These people who come, come not because of the salary, because with the thirty percent increase it cannot reach the free market they come from some idealism, come from a sense of responsibility, recognize themselves as people who are obliged to defend their country. We've already talked about the social package that needs to be improved, and I'm talking about housing and kindergartens. Notice, I don't count on loading the budget any further. I prefer the 2% that the government will set aside under the National Plan by 2024 to go to modernization of the army. We're not gonna take any extra money from the budget. We want with the available properties we have, with the right to build there to get these homes ready. We have this right under Law and this is the practice everywhere in Bulgaria, but this issue must be resolved and then there will be another improvement. The other factor is that young people at school do not have military training. They've got about five hours in class. You've seen the school. To be honest, these lessons are also in the third and fourth grade history book. What we have agreed with the Minister of Education and is one of the topics of our last coalition council, on which we agree and have decided, is to increase military training classes, including those who wish in training centres or in military schools, where there is a material base, to do summer training courses. When a young man by the age of 18, 19, by the time he graduated from secondary school, had contact with military equipment, weapons, learned something more about the army, it would fuel his curiosity, interest and desire to serve. Another major problem that exists was the destruction of the Defense Assistance Organization's system in the late 1990s. You know, and the people who went soldiers, that in this system people were preparing for paratroopers, drivers, studying martial arts. That means they were going to the special forces, radios, motorless flying, divers, the types of armed forces. By the age of 18.. until the graduation of secondary school then and entering the barracks, 10.. 12% of young people had passed some preliminary training, after which they only perfected. This system doesn't exist as a material base. It's been distributed to different departments, or sold since the late 1990s, at the very beginning of this century. Now it is very difficult to restore this. What's our idea here? In the country there are about 30 such associations with an ideal purpose. For example, in Plovdiv there are one or two clubs that engage in sports shooting and martial arts. In Varna they are involved in diving and sailing. Let's try to unite all these associations with an ideal purpose and try to provide them with some of these properties with a void need, but notice, for use.. is not a gift, as it is still an association. If we can also help with the renovation of the property so that this activity can take place there? Of course, this must now be regulated by Law, because it is impossible for a private association, even under the hat of the Ministry of Defense, to conduct shootings or other combat training. It's good in the Law to have some kind of amendment to think about it, and we'll figure out how to do it so we can legalize it. Nevertheless, this will not solve the problem. Why? [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u87	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u88	Bulgaria is in a demographic crisis. About 40% of the applicants turn out to be either overweight or with some health problem. However, one of the criteria for the campaign is whether successful or unsuccessful is how many people appear for one place when the competitions are announced. If, up until 2 years ago, the Air Force was one to one, and for the others under one person for one place, now for Land Forces, where the service is the most heavy and respectable, there are at least a measure for this heavy service, it is 1.7 people close to two people for one place. In the Air Force, we're up to six men in one place. It's a good trend. Here we come to the question that I told you about 40% drop out due to health problems, overweight, some of them do not have enough education, that is, they do not have secondary education and can not handle it, and the technique is complicated. Here, from this tribune, I will return to one of my subjects four years ago. This problem is not only in Bulgaria. Take one Germany, which is the motor, the engine of Europe. There is also an incompetence and it is much more unpleasant and bigger than that in Bulgaria. The wages are German, but there is the same problem. France has the same problem. All countries in which there is a personnel member, i.e. a paid service, not an optional one, have this problem. And what do they do to get over it? In the last 2 years, all Scandinavian countries have returned to military service in Sweden, Norway and Finland. Are they more threatened as a region? They're not, but they think. Denmark, a European democratic state, hardly anyone doubts, has never removed the military service. [[Noise and lines.]] Turkey and Greece are clear. I'm answering the question, Greece and Turkey have always had it. In Germany and France, they started talking about returning to military service. In Austria, where there are nine months of compulsory military service, they comment on whether to make it 12 months. I think the only solution is two steps away from going back to military service. The first step is the Law which we have prepared and which is part of our management program and which is inside for voluntary military service, but there the overcoming will be about 1200, 1300 to 1500 people per year. That is, we will not solve the problem again, but as a first step........................ and up to 2.. 3 years....... not to do it on the run, but to work a little bit, to proceed to the return of the selected military service for six or nine months. That's what military expertise will say. It is the only way we can solve the non-completion, because this is a common problem because of the demographic crisis, the ageing of the population in Europe, the health problems that are occurring. Unsuitable for military service is about 40%. It's like an answer to your question about the non-completion. It is a little off the subject, but it is good that you asked it because it is an important issue in general about the future of the Bulgarian army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u89	It was interesting. Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. We continue with questions from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. There won't be. Mr. Simeonov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u90	Dear Chairman, Dear Minister, for me personally today's hearing on art. 113 of the Rules is nothing but the finale of a clumsy, defamatory campaign. For such a campaign, I have repeatedly condemned representatives of this party, including the person with four probations, who raises the question, and their leader is currently paying me a raise for a lost case.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u91	Mr. Simeonov, to the point. Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u92	On this campaign for sale of real estate under the laws, regulations and order established in the Republic of Bulgaria, I would like to ask you how many more buckets of shit can you endure without bringing a case? [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u93	It's not about the subject, Mr. Simeonov. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I don't think you're going to answer. From the party "WOLLYA" The Bulgarian Rhodolists? I can't see. We're moving on to the subject. First have a relationship with GERB. [[National Representative Desislav Chukolov wants the floor.]] You don't have a second question. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u94	I've asked a question, and I want to take an attitude. You have no right to be in charge of the Rules, Mr. Chukolov. You asked for it, but you don't have the right to rule because you're not a parliamentary group. [[Heckling]] Will GERB party be relevant? [[Noise and lines.]] I can't see. Colleagues, please be quiet in the hall! From the BSP for Bulgaria? Mr. Tsonkov, please come in for five minutes for the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u95	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! [[Noise and lines.]] I would like to make one point first that, as the subject and the proposal for a hearing are set...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u96	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u97	...today we must discuss not only the problems with the properties with a lack of necessity, but, on the contrary, we must also talk about the personnel policy. [[Heckling]] That's one clarification I'd like to make. Today, very serious questions have been put to our attention. One of which is related to the personnel policy. [[National Representative Desislav Chukolov spoke with Deputy Prime Minister Krasimir Karakachanov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u98	Mr. Chukolov, please take your place! Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, please! [[Heckling]] Mr. Chukolov, take your place! Thank you. Mr. Tsonkov, come in for treatment.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u99	Thank you. The first question that we have discussed today is about properties with a derelict need. I believe that the second issue, which has been addressed very rarely, and it has been in the proposal for today's hearing, I am specifying once again, is chamber policy. Because this is the main issue to which we should pay attention, all the more so that the human resources and the people in the defence are one of the main elements for the capabilities of the armed forces of Bulgaria. I would like to briefly address both points. Of course, the incompetence of the armed forces has not been since yesterday and since today it dates back to about six years. There are various attempts to solve this problem with the failure of the Bulgarian army. Unfortunately, attempts so far have not been very successful, nor has the widely advertised vision of voluntary service, which I now understand that we are yet to discuss; nor is the urgent measures to resolve with different legislative changes; nor is the advertising campaign even a soldier. The incompetence continues to stand "five thousand people and upward." In 2019, by the way, I specify that these data have been taken from an answer to a parliamentary question, the 1364 posts announced in 2019 for soldiers on duty, of which 729 have been accepted. For 2018, 806 servicemen were accepted, which means about 80 less than 2019, although last year we also have the campaign "Be a soldier" for which about 500 thousand were spent. The problem with the Necomplect is not only in the Bulgarian army. As it became clear, this problem exists in all NATO armies. There, for various reasons, with different approaches, the governors of the NATO armies try and solve in much part the problem of the non-completion that exists. Why can't we find the right way here? I would like to turn around and put the issue a little bit and on a scientific basis, not only on a political basis, because it is important to specify what are the main factors, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, which influence the stimulation of young people and the solution of the non-completion, and, of course, the recruitment policies. These are, first of all, the remuneration, of course, unemployment cannot be overlooked and, of course, the recruitment system. In research that has been done in leading countries such as the United States and Great Britain, it turns out that as an impact factor are precisely: remunerations of 1.64, as an impact on recruitment; 0.9 for unemployment, and 0.5 for the recruitment system. Of course, unemployment can be difficult to influence the Ministry of Defence, but before joining the army, young people look at the monetary and non-money advantages that give the working conditions, including in the Ministry of Defence. There's one more thing I want to say here. It has been found that if you make an average increase of 10% in the military sphere compared to the civil sphere, it will give between 5 and 8% increase in the recruited soldiers. Therefore, the challenge facing the Ministry of Defence for Recruitment is the right choice of incentives to be developed. Here we are talking properly about social policy and about a social package, which we, too, from the BSP for Bulgaria and we are ready to propose. So the recruitment system...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u100	Mr. Tsonkov, time!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u101	One sentence. ... is also a problem, but should be more oriented towards the professional army, which currently operates in the Ministry of Defence and in Bulgaria. Of course, both advertising campaigns and purposefully working on the problems of the Bulgarian Army for the most necessary military professions and the deficit where there are, in the ranks of the Bulgarian Army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u102	One sentence was, but you managed to make it a really complicated sentence. Attitude from the parliamentary group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? I can't see. From the parliamentary group of the United Patriarchs? You have the floor, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u103	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! The hearing of the Minister is a constitutional and legal procedure within the framework of parliamentary life and is something extremely positive. This procedure, however, was the initiative of several former members of the Parliamentary Group of the United Patriarchs, now dependent MPs...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u104	On the subject, dear Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u105	...by a municipal councillor in Sofia and his sponsors. The topic was formulated too vaguely for the disposal of the properties of the Ministry of Defence and for the personnel policy. When it was introduced today, however, CADR policy was formulated as the policy of the coalition partner "United patriots," VMRO, and Mr Karakachanov as the leader of VMRO. I recall that a hearing in the National Assembly becomes ministers, but not political leaders. Here were mentioned names of activists of the organization, of people appointed and occupying state and other positions, outside the scope of the functions of the Minister of Defence and Deputy Prime Minister in Public Order and Security. Since it has not become clear what we have been talking about and we have not heard any specific data about the property debate and on CAD policy, you will allow me to express our group's attitude about what has happened in the last two years and 10 months in the Ministry of Defence and in the security sector. I'll start at points and a short one. For the first time in these two years and 10 months three times the salaries of employees in the sector were raised by 10% or 30% in total, although this is not capitalised in proportions. For the first time, the defence budget has exceeded 2 billion. lv. for 2020 The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 41 million. BGN, with only 1 billion in 2018. 613 million. lv. For the first time, the costs are aimed at acquiring defence capabilities, i.e. for the supply of arms and fighting equipment. In 2020, the amount will reach 146 million. lv. and is 42% higher for capital expenditure compared to 2019 and 166% compared to 2018. With these funds, the provision and restoration of the capabilities of MiG-29, Su-25 fighter helicopters Mi-24 and Mi-17 are to be made available. The last of our combat helicopter aircraft will be renovated at the state company TEREM. For the first time since the loss of our only transport plane Mi-17 in 2018, the Bulgarian armed forces will have two military transport planes that are suitable for their use in forest fires, rescue and evacuation. For the first time since 2005, Bulgaria has settled its long-standing dispute with Airbus helicopters and thanks to this free quote, a helicopter was delivered for our combat naval aviation and this happened last year. For the first time, after a long time, a major repair of our armored-tank technique began. And at the state plant, the first 10 T-72 battle tanks were mainly repaired. For the first time in a long time Bulgaria purchased with an interstate treaty ratified by the National Assembly, two warships at the price of apartments in Sofia in luxury condition. And finally, [[speaking indistinctly]] All this is not good. This is not good for those who do not want Bulgaria...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u106	Please finish your thought.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u107	I'm graduating. ...to have a strong army that do not want Bulgaria to stand up, who do not want Bulgaria to have a Ministry of Defence and a minister who make their own decisions, can say "nene" and serve the interests of Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u108	Thank you, too. Here you go, Mr. Shopov. Just give me a second to get my rules out. Please, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u109	That's right, Mr. Chairman, take out your Rules and read Article. 113 of it, because a moment ago Mr. Chukolov asked to take the floor on the issue raised.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u110	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u111	And in law you are not a lawyer, a law, in this case the Rules of the National Assembly, which has this power, is interpreted and extended. These are several types of interpretations: logical, literal and expansive. And do you think it is normal that the question should not be taken into consideration by giving an assessment of the entire debate? Because there's the narrow interpretation that Madame President just now gave me the impression that she made is that she didn't write the independent MPs. Yes, and whoever asked the question has the right to such an attitude, all the more so that we have not heard a specific answer. There are many things that have not been talked about here, the topic as a locum has been stretched and there is talk about the social policy of the Ministry, the needs of the servicemen, but there is no talk about the specific cases at many times lower prices to which the properties have been sold. That's a question for the prosecution. [[noise and lines from OP and GERB]] and here an attempt was made to justify these sales.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u112	Mr. Shopov, if you don't want to get into a deeper argument, please stop, because this conversation is already out of the...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u113	I'm graduating. You've made a legal attempt. Well, Bulgaria was sold out and criminal privatization...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u114	I'll answer your question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u115	...it was supposedly legal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u116	Abort, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u117	I therefore ask you to give us an opportunity to give an opinion. [[Noise and lines from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u118	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. You've remained true to yourself after all, you've strayed. On the subject you asked. Ms. Karayancheva made the right decision because these rules are being followed, she does not interpret it, she implements it. And there it is written: the Parliamentary groups have the right to express attitude. So you have no reason to accuse anyone of violating the regulations. From the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Rhodolists? I can't see. That's where we end up. Thank you. [[Deputy Prime Minister Krasimir Karakachanov gives a sign that he wants the floor.]] You want to? You have the right, and you have the right to rule.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u119	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I've always been open when there are such things, including slander and lies, because it's an honest lie of the Goebbelian, Stalin type! It's better to talk than not to talk. I therefore thank Parliament's leadership for calling this hearing. With regard to Mr. Tsonkov, the arguments he put forward. We've talked to him before. I am ready, whenever he wishes, I make no distinction and I have said it in the Defence Committee for me there is no opposition and governors, there are members of the Defence Committee. When he wants the quota in the BSP Commission or in another format to talk about these ideas, I am open, moreover, that if there is any summary scientific experience and practice, it would be useful. But personally, I believe that the only possible way to overcome these about 5,000 people in the army is to return to military service. That's how modern countries do it. I know it's a financial issue. That's right, and that's why I'm saying not right away, but it has to be discussed, it has to be considered, but it's the practice that everybody brings in, it's the only way we can fill out our reservations, otherwise it can't happen. Gentlemen asking the questions, I would recommend 15 years of sitting in this room. A little bit of respect for the institutions. You can't do party and political propaganda with Goebbel lies! Didn't you see the voters appreciated it?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u120	However, I must ask you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u121	And they showed you the yellow card, even the red card. Regarding Mr. Simeonov and the question. I've never been in the mood to do cases. I know your practice, it's useful, it's educational to the slanderers, but somehow I like what the column of Khan Omurtag says, "Whatever you do, God sees." I would add: "God sees, sometimes he forgives, but IMRO does not forgive. " [[Private applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u122	Thank you. [[Presidents change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u123	Moving on to the next item on the agenda: REPORT ON THE WORK OF THE TEMPORARY COMMISSION ON THE STUDIES OF THE FACTS AND ASSISTANCES RELATED TO THE INTERPRETATION OF THE ARGUMENT OF THE BULGARIAN NATIONAL RADIO, AS WELL AS THE COMPLAINTS OF POLITIC PUTISHING ON THE MANAGEMENT AND JURNALISTS OF THE BULGARIAN NATIONAL RADIO AND THE PROJECT OF THE REPORT DECISION. Importer of the requested committee. Here you are, Mr. Bikov, to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u124	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! ♪ I can't believe on the activities of the Temporary Committee for the Study of the facts and circumstances related to the interruption of the broadcast of the program "Programme" of the Bulgarian National Radio, as well as the allegations of political pressure on the management and journalists of the Bulgarian National Radio I. Introduction By its Decision of 20 September 2019, the European Parliament and the Council adopted Decisions (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] and (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). The 44th National Assembly on the grounds of art. 79, para. 1 and 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 37 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly set up a Temporary Commission for the Study of the facts and circumstances related to the interruption of the broadcast of the program "Model" of the Bulgarian National Radio, as well as the allegations of political pressure on the management and journalists of the Bulgarian National Radio. In carrying out their work, the members of the Commission were led by the Internal Rules on the Organization and Activity of the Temporary Commission for the Study of the facts and circumstances related to the interruption of the broadcast of the program "Programme" of the Bulgarian National Radio, as well as the allegations of political pressure on the management and journalists of the Bulgarian National Radio, adopted at a meeting on 3 October 2019. During the preparation of the Report, the members of the Temporary Committee had at their disposal: - Report on compliance with art. 6, para. 2 and para. 3, p. Art. 6 and art. 10 of the Law on Radio and Television, establishing compliance with the principles of diversity, credibility and pluralism in the information policy of the Bulgarian National Radio provided by the Council for Electronic Media; - Internal monitoring of the Programme "Modern" for the period 1 September 10 October 2019, provided and prepared by the Bulgarian National Radio; - External monitoring of the Horizon Programme for the period 1 September 10 October 2019, provided and prepared by the Bulgarian National Radio; - Letter from the Communications Regulation Commission with information on the actions taken by the CRC in connection with the suspension of the broadcast of the program of the Bulgarian National Radio on 13 September 2019, which includes: 1. Copy of Conventional Protocol No C-AM-097/13.09.2019 and Annexes. 2. Copy of Conventional Protocol No C-AM-098/13.09.2019 and Annexes. 3. A copy of Act establishing administrative infringement No C-147/17.09.2019 4. A copy of a letter to the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office with ex. No 09-00/193/16.09.2019 5. A copy of Criminal Decree No 124/24.09.2019 - List of documents provided by the Council for Electronic Media, related to the suspension of distribution through electronic communications networks for terrestrial analogue radio disruption of the program "Moreover" of the Bulgarian National Radio and the crisis in the management of the media, which led to protests of journalists and employees, which include: 1. Conventional Protocol No RD-22 17-0023/13.09.2019 establishing that the Horizon Programme is not delivered through terrestrial analogue broadcasting networks on 13.09.2019. 2. Communication for the prevention of transmitters published on the website of BNR. 3. I've got a letter. No RD-22 17-00-23/13.09.2019 to the Director-General of BNR requesting information. 4. It's a letter in there. No RD-22 17-00-23/13.09.2019 by the Director-General of BNR with Annexes. 5. I've got a letter. No RD-22 17-00-23/13.09.2019 to CRC with request for information. 6. I've got a letter. No RD-22 17-00-23/13.09.2019 to the Director-General and the members of the Executive Board of the BNR for a meeting. 7. I've got a letter. No RD-22 17-00-23/13.09.2019 to CRC for a meeting. 8. Order of 13.09.2019 under B.C. No 10901/ 2019 of the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office No RD-22 17-00-23/13.09.2019 9. I've got a letter. No RD-22 17-00-23/13.09.2019 to the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office. 10. Communication of the CCP for the results of the preliminary verification. 11. Declaration by those working in the Horizon and the BNR against the actions of the management of the BNR. No RD-22 17 00 22/13.09.2019 12. Opinion of trade unions represented in the BNR in support of the Director-General. No RD-22 17-00-25/16.09.2019 13. Minutes of a meeting held on 16.09.2019 between the CEM, the Board of BNR and CRC. 14. It's a letter in there. No RD-22 17-00-23/ 16.09.2019 by CRC. 15. It's a letter in there. No RD-22 17-00-23/16.09.2019 by BNR with attached additional documents (bullets establishing interruptions of signals of individual programs of different transmitters). 16. Letter (station) in. No RD-22 17-0023/18.09.2019 by the Redcolegia of the Programme "Europe" with a request to hold a meeting with the CEM. 17. Protocol of the meeting between the CEM and the Redcolegy of the Programme of the Horizon Programme on 19.09.2019. 18. Protocol's out. No RD-22 17-00-23/19.09.2019 for documents provided by Mrs. Sylvia Velieva during the meeting. 19. Protocol No 41 of the CEM meeting of 19.09.2019 20. Opinion of the CEM of 19.09.2019 on the suspension of the program "Modern Program" - Horizon of the Bulgarian National Radio, uploaded on the website of the regulator. 21. I've got a letter. No RD-22 17-00-23/25.09.2019 to the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria. 22. Criminal Decree No RD-10-26/02.10.2019 of the Chairman of the CEM. 23. Criminal Decree No RD-10-27/02.10.2019 of the President of the CEM. 24. Opinion of the Court of Justice. No RD-22 17-00-23/20.09.2019 of the Redcolege of the Programme "Europe" in response to a call for a re-ndezvous. 25. Protocol No 43 of the CEM extraordinary meeting held on 27.09.2019 26. Minutes of a meeting held on 03.10.2019 with protesters in support of Svetoslav Kostov employees of BNR. 27. Protocol No 45 of the CEM meeting held on 09.10.2019 28. I've got a letter. No RD-22 17-00-23/ 09.10.2019 until Svetoslav Kostov for opening proceedings on early termination of his term of office. 29. Opinion of the Court of Justice. No RD-22 17-00-23/14.10.2019 by Svetoslav Kostov with applications in paper and electronic media (in a separate classor). 30. Decision of the CEM No RD-05-107/17.10.2019 31. Protocol No 46 of the CEM meeting held on 17.10.2019. 32. Letters, declarations, positions entered into the CEM: 32.1. Declaration by radiojournalists requesting the resignation of the Director-General and the Management Board, vc. No RD-22 17-00-23/20.09.2019 32.2. Position of the Union of Bulgarian Journalists vc. No RD-22 17-00-23/24.09.2019, which requires urgent measures to normalise the situation in the BNR and resignations of the Director-General and the Management Board. 32.3. Declaration by representative trade unions in BNR vc. No RD-22 17-00-23/26.09.2019 32.4. Article of the International Federation of Journalists vh. No RD-22 17-00-23/30.09.2019 32.5. Opinion of the Redcolegy of the Programme "Modern" on the allegations of Mr. Svetoslav Kostov concerning the legitimacy of the Redcolegy in. No RD-22 17-00-23/01.10.2019 32.6. Position of BNR correspondents in the country vc. No RD-22 17-00-23/01.10.2019 32.7. Open letter to Daniela Shortovska's CEM vc. No RD-22 17-00-23/02.10.2019 32.8. Declaration by representative trade unions in BNR and employees of the media inv. No RD-22 17-00-23/03.10.2019 32.9. Reference from the Union of Bulgarian Journalists vc. No RD-22 17-00-23/06.10.2019 32.10. Opinion of working in the Bulgarian National Radio. No RD-22 17-00-23/07.10.2019 32.11. Opinion from the Redcolegy of the 32.12. Declarations by employees and journalists in BNR vc. No RD-22 17-00-23/15 and 16.10.2019 32.13. Letter from O. Stambolov, journalist and translator vc. No RD-22 17-00-23/18 and 25.10.2019 32.14. Letter from the Sofia District Attorney's Office vc. No RD-22 17-00-23/30.09.2019 and reply of 03.10.2019 The results of the hearings held in the Commission of: 1. Mr. Sotir Tsatsarov, Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria, held on 10 October 2019. 2. The Electronic Media Board held on 14 November 2019. 3. The Communications Regulation Commission, held on 14 November 2019 4. Mrs. Silvia Velieva, Mr. Ivaylo Savov, Mr. Stefan Tashev, Mr. Svetoslav Kostov, Mrs. Daniela Koustov and Mr. Plamen Kostov in connection with clarification of the facts and circumstances related to the interruption of the broadcast of the program of the Bulgarian National Radio on 13 September 2019 as well as the allegations of political pressure on the management and journalists of the Bulgarian National Radio held on 23 January 2020. 5. Ms. Rumyana Vasileva and Mr. Daniel Inkov, Mrs. Daniela Shortovska and Mr. Ivaylo Kostov regarding clarification of other facts and circumstances related to allegations of interference with editorial independence of the Bulgarian National Radio, held on 23 January 2020. The interim committee held 7 meetings, all open, and they were attended by various other stakeholders besides accredited journalists. I. Reason for convening the Commission At its meeting on 27 September 2019, the National Assembly discussed the issue of the public debate raised and the broad media response related to the temporary suspension of the broadcast of the program " Horizon" of the Bulgarian National Radio on 13 September 2019 and the information about the political pressure on the management and employees of the Bulgarian National Radio, took into account the fact that the Prosecutor's Office and the Communications Regulation Commission carried out checks regarding the suspension, and that the Council for Electronic Media heard the radio management in connection with the removal of a journalist from the media. However, the meeting also drew attention to the fact that clarifying all the facts relating to radio shut-down is not only a matter of prosecutorial and administrative verification, but also a clear political reaction. This implies clarifying the question, whether there was political pressure on the radio and if there was, who is the person or persons who made it. The National Assembly, led by this understanding, set up a Temporary Committee for the Study of the facts and circumstances related to the interruption of the broadcast of the program of the Bulgarian National Radio, as well as the allegations of political pressure on the management and journalists from the Bulgarian National Radio with President Mr. Toma Bikov, in which on a parite principle it includes 10 MPs of the Parliamentary group. II. Collection of data and identification of facts At the beginning of its work, the Temporary Commission clearly narrowed down the need to establish all the facts relating to radio shut-down, as well as the data on political pressure on the management and journalists from the radio. The approach taken by the Commission is, subject to the principle of publicity, to invite and hear first the competent authorities involved in the case, and then to invite and hear directly involved in the events relating to the suspension of the signal of the Horizon Programme on 13 September 2019 and then other persons employed in the Bulgarian National Radio who have requested to be heard and who signal irregularities in the activity of the radio, as well as other interested parties. In the course of the process of data collection, the Temporary Commission identified the need to establish several separate facts, which, although interlinked, are of self-important importance and their establishment and clarification is key to the work of the Commission. First of all, the Commission aims to clarify all the circumstances related to the interruption of the broadcast of the program "Modern Horizon" of the Bulgarian National Radio on 13 September 2019. Second, the Commission aims to establish whether there is political pressure on radio management preceded by the suspension of the broadcast of the Horizon Programme on 13 September 2019. Thirdly, the Commission aims to establish whether there is any political or other pressure on journalists from the Bulgarian National Radio. The Commission has set itself the task of establishing, if political pressure has been put on, at what time, in what form and by what means it has been exercised, and whether there is a link between the suspension of the Horizon programme on 13 September 2019 and the removal of Mrs. Sylvia Veliva from the air. He also gave himself the task of establishing, if there is such a connection, what are the reasons for it. In addition, the Temporary Commission allowed a hearing of other interested parties to state their allegations of subsequent facts relevant to the case and which the Commission considered important to clarify the overall factual situation regarding the state of media freedom in the Bulgarian National Radio. In order to establish these facts, the Temporary Commission within its powers invited and heard from the competent institutions first of all Mr. Sotir Tsatsarov, Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria at the time of the stop of the radio and its invitation to the Commission, then invited and heard the Council for Electronic Media, represented before the Commission by Mrs. Rosita Elenova, and then invited and heard the Communications Regulation Commission represented by Mr. Konstantin Dimitrov. After hearing of the competent authorities, the Temporary Commission took the first hearing of Mrs. Silvia Velieva, journalist in the program "Programme" of the Bulgarian National Radio, Mr. Ivaylo Savov, Director of the Programme "Programme" of September 2017. "September 2019, Mrs. Daniela Kusovska, Deputy Editor-in-Chief of the Horizon Programme on 13 September 2019, Mr. Stefan Tashev, Member of the Management Board of the Bulgarian National Radio, Mr. Svetoslav Kostov, Director-General of the Bulgarian National Radio on 13 September 2019 and Mr. Plamen Kostov, Technical Director of the Bulgarian National Radio on 13 September 2019. Then, apart from the persons mentioned above, the Temporary Commission invited and gave the opportunity to hear Mrs. Violeta Asikova, Mrs. Rumyana Vassileva, Mr. Daniel Inkov, journalists in the Bulgarian National Radio, as well as Mr. Anton Mitov, acting Director General of the Bulgarian National Radio in the period 18 October 2019. 23 January 2020 in connection with clarification of other facts and circumstances related to allegations of interference with the editorial independence of the Bulgarian National Radio. During the hearing on this matter Mr. Anton Mitov and Mrs. Violeta Ashikova did not appear for a hearing, but in relation to the debate, Mr. Ivaylo Savov and Mrs. Daniela Kusovska took the issue. In addition, the Temporary Commission listens to Ms. Elitsa Dotseva, representative of the CNBC, and Mrs. Darina Grigorova, representative of KT Supporta, who also expressed a desire to present information related to problems in the work of BNR. 1. In a hearing of the Attorney General Mr. Sotir Tsatsarov gave information about the following: With regard to the suspension of the Horizon Programme, on 13 September 2019 the Horizon Programme is only available online and stops broadcasting for the time from 6,00 a.m. to 10,42 a.m. immediately thereafter, a signal reference has been sent to the Prosecutor General, stating the facts concerning the suspension of the Horizon Programme, the alleged reasons for this, clearly stating that the suspension is also a national security hazard. According to the Prosecutor General, the focus in this case is related to the obligations of the National Radio both under the Law on Disaster Protection and those which exist in the Law on Radio and Television for continuous broadcasting and for the transmission of relevant messages in cases of disasters or other crisis situations. Based on the reference sent by the DANS, the Attorney General is ordering an inspection. The verification period shall be three days in view of the need to collect the necessary facts very quickly on the basis of which to assess whether there are grounds for the initiation of pre-trial proceedings. The check was assigned to the SANS, carried out also by requiring documents from the CRC and the CEM. After completion of the verification, the results of the verification have been disclosed. They show that, for the date of 13 September 2019, when the Radio stopped broadcasting of the Horizon Programme, there was indeed a prevention plan. The prevention plan covered only three transmitters of ultra-short waves and these transmitters were in Belogradchik, Ivaylovgrad and Treshtnik, meaning there was no plan for other prevention and suspension of the program. The planned suspension concerned only three transmitters, which in no way could and should not have affected the broadcasting of the The chronology the Prosecutor General sets out is that on 11 September 2019 a notification was received to the Director of the Department of Technology and Mr. Plamen Kostov to the Director General of the National Radio on the need to carry out prevention of the studio complex. At the stage at which the investigation was carried out by the Prosecutor's Office, it becomes clear that what has been reduced to the Director-General's knowledge concerns only prevention of the studio complex and at this time the Prosecutor's Office does not yet have data that the Director-General knew of the possibility or at all about the upcoming suspension of the broadcast of the According to the Prosecutor's Office, after such a notification was received on 11 September 2019 by the Director of the Directorate of Technology to the Director-General, he resolated it with his resolution of 11 September 2019 on the same date. As a result, it followed on 12 September 2019 sending an email at 9.26 pm from Mr. Kostov to NURTS with the following text:.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. After exchange of correspondence between NURTS and Radio, in view of the explicit requirement of the NURTS management to make sure that the Radio really wants to stop and after this has been confirmed, the broadcast of the Horizon programme has been suspended. It was broadcast only online, and on September 13, 2019 at 8.07 pm Mr. Plamen Kostov sent a new email to the relevant NURTS head with content: The prosecution's verification found that during the time from 6:00 to 10.42 hours there was a complete technical possibility that this signal could be transmitted, i.e. there was no need for prevention. The technical channels for transmitting a program from the Radio to NURTS transmitters on each of the three existing routes of two optical and one radio relays existed in full possibility. On 13 September 2019, immediately before the programme was broadcast, the duty engineer at NURTS at 5.45 was reconnected with the management of the Department of Technology, asked once again that it was strongly confirmed that the programme should be stopped, as it was clear to him that neither prevention nor prevention nor technical problem nor for any reason it was necessary to stop the radio. After having received confirmation, the broadcast of the Programme was eventually suspended at 6:00 P.M. What has been established is that from 6:00 p.m. from the NURTS Central Station, the digital audio of the program "Modern" which has been obtained from the so-called central apparatus of BNR has been replaced by a "RATs" signal. That basically meant broadcasting silence on the air. According to the Attorney General, the position of NURTS is generally: The radio stopped not because there is a technical problem, but because you simply.... the Radio does not broadcast any program, that is, you have silence........................................................................ After the verification established these facts, the materials were sent to the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office. The Sofia City Prosecutor's Office has initiated pre-trial proceedings, and the inspection is completed in three days from 13 September to 16 September. On 17 September the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office launched a pre-trial procedure. Sofia City Prosecutor's Office has requested documents from the Director of the Bulgarian National Radio, are requested in the original incoming diaries.............................................................................................. They carried out a check on the computer filing system for documents in the internal system of the Radio for such documents.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u125	Mr. Ivanov will continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u126	Are they gonna read the whole report?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u127	Theoretically, it may be summarized, but they prefer to read it all over the place.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u128	Many witnesses have been interviewed, first of all Svetoslav Kostov as Director General, Maria Markova, Plamen Kostov, Director of the Department of Technology, including officials who perform the functions of administrators, secretaries who simply conduct correspondence. NURTS officials have also been interrogated. In the end, according to the data provided by the Prosecutor General, this factual situation is confirmed, but only with regard to the facts relating to the suspension of technical capabilities. From now on, according to him, two main versions have been outlined. They're under investigation by the D.A. According to her, one of the versions is the version of the director of the Department of Technology. Mr. Plamen Kostov and the other is the Director General of the National Radio at this time Mr. Svetoslav Kostov. In the context of the pre-trial proceedings Mr. Plamen Kostov gives evidence, is questioned as a witness, in the verification denies everything that evidence actually outlines the first version of what happened or possibly happened. Mr. Sotir Tsatsarov presented to the Temporary Commission the first version of Mr. Plamen Kostov's version. According to Mr. Plamen Kostov, the Director-General of the Department of Technology on 11 September 2019 came home from a business trip from abroad by one day earlier, after which Mr. Plamen Kostov argued that on 11 September 2019 at 17.51 pm he received a call from the Director-General on the phone and asked him to stop the broadcast of the Programme of Horizon on 13 September 2019 for the time from 06:00 to 11.00 p.m. According to Mr. Plamen Kostov, he said that this was a complete madness, which according to Mr. Kostov, the Director-General responded to. From there follows Kostov's actions, which were established at the time of the prosecution's investigation, and before that around 18.30 the director of the Department of Technology called again to the Director General, asking him for some form of permission for written notification, since it was obvious that the request was so unusual for NURTS that they had asked to have a very clear written document which prescribes them not to transmit a signal to the Radio. The Director-General's reply was: "Send what needs to be done! " and as a result, on 12 September 2019 at 9.26 pm, the Director of the Directorate of Technology sent the e-mail to NURTS. Mr. Kostov claims that on the same date around 3 pm he had a new phone call with the Director General. According to him, in this new phone call, the order of the Director-General was to continue and keep NURTS on standby. It was found in the verification of the existence of a notification dated 11 September 2019 of the Directorate-General of the Radio to the Director-General with the following text: "In relation to a major technical problem created, there is a need to promote the Studio Complex of the Programme of the "Modern Horizon" on 13 September 2019 from 06.00 to 11.00........................................................................................................................................................................................................................ This notification has been entered or it bears the corresponding stamp from the Radio's business system dated 11 September 2019 and is resolated by the Director-General. The verification established that the notification in question was registered in the Radio's business system on 12 September and not on 11 September, at 16.21. It is also established that the Radio's business system allowed a document on the 12th to be filed by date 11th. According to Mr. Kostov's statement, Director of the Directorate of Technology, it is also found that this notification is written in 12 and is written in full knowledge and awareness of the Director-General. On the date of 13th according to Plamen Kostov's testimony before the prosecution, the Director General called him this morning and ordered him to submit to the program "Modern" at 10.20. This is the reason according to Plamen Kostov, according to which, again with the knowledge and order of the Director-General, at 08.07 he sent an email, in which he thanked NURTS for their assistance and kindly told him that they could restore the broadcast at 10.20 p.m. From NURTS, apparently quite surprised by these unusual actions on the Radio, once again asking for confirmation as they wanted to stop the signal, so they wanted confirmation to release it again, and after receiving it, at 10.24 p.m. This is the first version, which was established in the investigation. The stop of the radio was carried out with the knowledge of the Director General of the National Radio in the presence of official orders from him to the Director of the Directorate of Technology. The second version is according to the statement of the Director General of Radio Mr. Svetoslav Kostov. The Director General of the Radio states that for the alleged call, which was made on 11 September 2019 at 17.51 p.m. and on the basis of which it is ordered by the words "Exert!" and what Mr. Kostov is talking about, there is no memory of a date and time. Says he didn't order the program to shut down in any way. Regarding the call at about 6:30 p.m. and the quoted words: "Keep NURTS at the stand," the Director General claims that he has no memory of an hour and has no memory of calling, says Mr. Kostov may have called, maybe he hasn't called. As regards the conversation on 12 September 2019, the Director-General categorically denied having such a conversation. With regard to the notification of 11 September, the Director-General categorically denied that notification being anti-dumping. It states that it does not have a particular memory of the release of the notification itself and that it has taken place. It states that it has put a resolution on the notification in its opinion, without knowing that it concerns the suspension of the broadcasting of the Horizon Programme and that the date of that notification in its opinion is relevant, i.e. the date of 11 September 2019. According to the Prosecutor General, Mr. Sotir Tsatsarov, the prosecution should carry out a first analysis with a view to verifying the allegations of available calls, as the Director of the Directorate's Office of Technology very clearly stated the hours in which he spoke and the exact hours during which he had a conversation with the Director-General. According to him, this will be checked in accordance with the Law on Electronic Communications. According to Mr. Sotir Tsatsarov, the second topic or the second line concerns a check at the Sofia District Prosecutor's Office. On 19 September the Council for Electronic Media held a meeting in the presence of journalists from the Bulgarian National Radio, who made appropriate statements to the Council for Electronic Media. This meeting is also widely reflected in the media. It became clear in the media that the CEM would alert the prosecution. On September 25th, the prosecution received a signal from the CEM. In practice, the alert constitutes a short letter sending a protocol of the discussion to the CEM and, in addition to sending the protocol, the CEM signals the prosecution of two things, i.e. two possible guidelines relating to a possible crime of coercion. One of them represents evidence of forced force by abuse of power by the Director-General Mr. Svetoslav Kostov on certain journalists and the second one represents coercion which is exercised against the Director-General by unknown persons. The paper was submitted to the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office and immediately sent to the competent prosecutor's office, and this is the Sofia District Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u129	Mr. Bikov is replacing Mr. Ivanov. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] They're right.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u130	At the Sofia District Prosecutor's Office, the investigation is carried out personally by a prosecutor, with the following being carried out at the time of the hearing of the Prosecutor General to the Temporary Commission: The Director-General has requested absolutely all documents relevant to the case. This concerns not only official characteristics, orders and so on, but also absolutely all orders concerning the alleged posting of journalists, programme schedules and so on; All relevant documents on the occasion of the removal from the air of journalist Sylvia Velieva and the suspension of the broadcast of the program "Moreover" have been requested by the Council for Electronic Media in the same way. The Prosecutor General adds that, apart from this, because of the allegations relating to telephone calls made, and because of the fact that persons who provide an explanation and are adamant that such telephone calls are held, indicating the time of the telephone calls, a telephone number from which they made or accepted the relevant dialing, as well as a telephone number from which they received or accepted the relevant recruitment of another caller in the present case, this is basically the Director General of the Radio. For this reason, the possibilities of the Law on Electronic Communications and with one order of the Director of the General Directorate of National Police have been requisitioned the preparation of requests under this law for access to traffic data have been re-used. Put another way to get what in the public domain is called printouts. The prosecution has been authorised by the Sofia District Court, the judicial acts have been obtained and on 7 October the Sofia District Prosecutor's Office filed these judicial acts allowing access to these data, calls to these phones, to the relevant mobile operators. According to Mr. Tsatsarov, the prosecutor's office expects the answers from mobile operators regarding traffic and those phones. Apart from that, the monitoring prosecutor has removed explanations from the following persons: Mrs. Silvia Velikova, Mrs. Daniela Kusovska, Mr. Ivaylo Savov, Mr. Nikolay Krastev, Mrs. Mariana Markova, Mr. Svetoslav Kostov, and Mrs. Ljubomir Ceshmedjiev, Mrs. Ivaylo Savov, Mr. Nikolay Krastev, Mrs. Mariana Markova, Mr. Svetoslav Kostov, and Mr. Ljubomir Ceshmedjiev. In addition, two further actions have been carried out in the investigation. The one is because Mr. Ivaylo Savov, former Head of the Programme "Modern" who has been retired, stated that he has been conducting correspondence with the Director-General by telephone, who has been working, but has carried out correspondence on this phone using the Viber application and after being retired, has transmitted his service phone. The D.A.'s office requested this phone from Radio, and the phone was taken for forensics. In addition, there are statements made by persons who have been taken away from explanations concerning meetings, entry, exit from the Radio building together with the Director-General or other persons concerning facts which are denied by those persons. Given that the alleged presence of such meetings indicate that there are continuously active security cameras at the entrance of the Radio, the recordings of these security cameras are exquisite, which will clearly show who was doing what and when. And here are two groups of witnesses. According to the first group, they claim that what happened in the period from 9 September 2019 to 13 September 2019 is practically actions that were aimed at, frankly speaking, the removal of the journalist Mrs. Sylvia Veliva from the air to, according to them, it cannot reflect and comment on the protests concerning the procedure for election of the Prosecutor General, not to conduct the transmission before all on 13 September, and this is a group of four persons: Veliko, Savov, Shortovska, Cheshmedjiev, who generally indicate that during this period they had talks with the Director General that the Director himself was worried about the pressure exercised on him by four persons, by political parties whose names he did not share before them... And he has explicitly answered specific questions asked by the journalist Mrs. Silvia Velieva whether these are certain persons. He said that these are not three of the persons she mentioned, but other persons. And in general, things are related to a conversation between Mrs. Velieva, among other things, that she and not only her, but her colleagues claim to have happened in the Radio, in the Borisova Garden. According to Mrs. Velieva such a conversation in Borisova garden was held. According to her, during this conversation, the Director-General clearly said that she should be taken off the air. He has also pointed out the reasons why this should happen and pointed out that, if this does not happen, the budget of the Radio will not be increased, normal or will not be enough for the costs of the Radio. He also pointed out that this is also related to threats to him, he used, according to her, the expression that his children would stay hungry and that this he should do and so on. Apart from that, facts regarding the issue of a command order are also set out. Under this command, Silvia Velieva should have gone to train journalists in Radio Stara Zagora. According to this first group of individuals, from whom explanations have been taken, this is practically related to the attempt to remove the journalist from the air. This is in practice also the claims of the first group of persons.. all explanations are extremely detailed. According to Mr. Sotir Tsatsarov, the monitoring prosecutor has done the most in order to clear all the details that are related to hours, phone numbers, including within minutes, so that the alleged by one group of witnesses and the categorically denied by another group of witnesses can be clearly traced on the basis of the possible results obtained from the printouts by mobile operators. According to the Prosecutor General, the second group of witnesses generally have one position, which coincides with the explanations of the Director General. The Director General claims that he was on a business trip abroad on the tenth. He got a call from Mrs. Markova, who replaced him, a member of the Radio Board. It is clear that this is a perfectly normal procedure for which the journalist himself knew and that this order should be signed. The Director-General then said that due to urgent problems related to the National Radio budget, he should have returned to Bulgaria on 11 September and on 11 September returned to Bulgaria on an earlier flight. On the 11th of September, he returned to the Radio building, was engaged in ongoing work and on the 11th of September, this is the connection with the first storyline related to the suspension of the broadcast of the This notification was resolated with the National Radio because he thought it was only a prevention of a studio complex. On September 11th, this was a key moment related to the main discrepancy between the explanations of both, according to the journalist Mrs. Sylvia Velieva, then on September 11th a conversation was held between the Director General and her in Borisova Garden at the express request of the Director General to be outside the building of the Radio and then he informed her of his requests to be removed from the air. The Director-General himself said that on 11 September 2019 he was really in Borisova Garden and he saw Mrs. Veliva, he saw a colleague of hers who was in maternity and was there with her child, he congratulated them, then he went on his way. From then on, the Director-General describes the events of 12 September 2019 related to the retirement of the Head of the Horizon Programme. According to him, it is quite normal and planned, according to the Head of the Programme He says: I note that I personally did not ask anyone to replace Silvia Velieva as a reporter covering an event, nor as a leader of a transmission. In other words, according to him, there is evidence of a crime. In the course of the hearing and asking questions, it was found that phone records would be seized from both the Director General and the Director General and that Mrs. Sylvia Velieva's travel order had been issued. There is a discrepancy in the allegations regarding the reasons why this order was issued. According to one group of witnesses, the order was issued on the day of the events and was at the request of the head of Radio Stara Zagora. According to the other statement, the order was issued in a very normal order, it is agreed in advance, it is related to a so-called reporter's academy, that is, the training of journalists from regional centres, journalists from Sofia, and according to the statement of the Director-General: On 10 September, I received a call from Mrs. Markova and informed me that this is the member of the Board of Directors of the Radio, which replaces him while he is abroad. I told Markova to resolate the report with the report and to refer it to the Director of the Horizon programme. The statement of the Director of the Horizon Programme is that this order is not related at all to any prior coordination. That is, he and his colleagues associate this order with a practical attempt to remove the journalist from the air on the particular day. That is to say, to find a perfectly legitimate pretext for her not to participate in a transmission and to conduct a transmission. Prosecutor General Sotir Tsatsarov presented to the Temporary Commission the so-called third storyline, according to which on 26 September a signal was received by the Director-General of the Radio, in which an alert was issued by the Director-General about violations related to budget, public procurement and contracts that he had identified. We are talking about overdue financial obligations, unsecured contracts, payments under contracts resulting from public contracts, over-the-top contracts and in the contract itself, payments under contracts concluded for public contracts for activities carried out which are not at all covered by the contract, as well as missing computer information from official computers. On the basis of this alert, the SANS shall form a reference, however, stating explicitly that the signal and everything alleged in it is not subject to verification. This reference has been sent to the Prosecutor's Office and the alert has been sent to the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office on jurisdiction as it concerns official crimes. However, in the scope of the hearing of Sotir Tsatsarov by the Temporary Commission, there are still no results of the checks carried out. According to him, the Attorney General presents the so-called fourth storyline in the Radio, which is not related to coercion or to official crimes. On September 23, 2019, a reporter from the Radio reported that on September 20, 2019 a minor injury to the neck was caused to him in the building of the Radio after a dispute arose and the act was committed by hooligan motives. From the initial data collected, it is clear that it is a conflict that arose at 18.10 pm between two radio editors and the injured person is a reporter. He claims that on September 20th around 6:10 pm he entered the newsroom, followed an argument with the two editors there. In the course of the dispute concerning whether or not to broadcast news from the reporter in question, one of the editors has literally committed physical abuse against him. Three witnesses have been questioned so far. One of them is the victim who confirmed his version. The other two are the editors in question, who generally confirm the existence of a dispute and, according to them, nothing more than a normal push as a result of this dispute. At last, Mrs. Daniela Kusovska was questioned, who was at the time deputy to the Head of the Horizon Programme, which describes the existence of conflict and an attempt to break people up during this struggle. Forensics has been assigned, which will have to conclude on the injuries, and the victim has also submitted a medical certificate. Many other witnesses are about to be questioned because all of this happened in the Radio building during working hours, where there were people working and most likely also accepted this incident. Sotir Tsatsarov also presents in his own words the so-called fifth storyline in which, according to the Director General of Radio, he announced that a second attempt to stop the radio was prevented. The sequence of events established by the Prosecutor's Office is as follows: the management of the Radio received a letter that on 4 October there will be a prevention of the Kopitos for the period from 9.00 to 17.00. According to Mr. Tsatsarov there can be no attempt of NURTS to stop the Radio. The prevention is absolutely planned, and the prosecution has requested and sent them the timetable for this prevention. This prevention could in no way affect the broadcasting of the Horizon programme. However, after this correspondence was received in the Radio Guide, it referred to the NURTS management, stating that it strongly objects to this prevention. Then the Radio management sent all the correspondence to the D.A.'s office. It has sent correspondence on the competence of the CEM and the response received by the CEM is ultimately dated 9 October 2019 and the CEM claims that these documents were properly sent to them and that their verification found that they contain data of absolutely normal, planned prophylaxis, according to a contract concluded between the National Radio and NURTS. That is, this is not about any events other than planned prevention. In his hearing Sotir Tsatsarov stated that the so-called plot lines are from the point of view of the initiating document which leads to the formation of a file or pre-trial proceedings. In any case, a link between at least two of the so-called plot lines can be considered, and this is the stop of the Radio and the allegations of forced force. In practice it is seen that one is in pre-trial proceedings, the other is still in the verification phase, but it will also become pre-trial proceedings. According to the Attorney General, it can be reasoned about their unification, which is a very possible hypothesis, because the explanations of the Director General of Radio regarding the chronology and events related to Sylvia Velieva are intertwined with the chronology and everything he claims, as well as with the actions carried out on the occasion of the stop of the Radio. According to Tsatsarov, they cannot unite in a storyline with claims of physical violence. According to him, this is a separate pre-trial procedure. The fifth storyline, the one related to claims and attempts to stop the radio second, was mentioned. It cannot produce any criminal proceedings. She's a file, correspondence between the Radio, the CEM and the Attorney General. It shall be exposed to the Temporary Commission only for clarity. IV. It's the temporary committee's draft. A temporary committee to investigate the facts and circumstances related to the interruption of the broadcast of the program " Horizon" of the Bulgarian National Radio, as well as the allegations of political pressure on the management and journalists of the Bulgarian National Radio, has made every effort to clarify the facts related to the interruption of the broadcast of the program "Moreover" of the Bulgarian National Radio, as well as the allegations of political pressure on the management and journalists. In the course of the hearing, all interested parties were invited, including those relevant to the facts at a later stage, as well as persons claiming that there was interference with the editorial independence of the Radio. The following may be concluded as a result of the hearing and the gathering of information: The broadcast of the Horizon Programme on 13 September 2019 was interrupted and, for the time from 6,00 a.m. to 10,24 a.m., the Horizon Programme is available only online. There is no technical reason for stopping the radio. The radio was stopped after sending an explicit email with a request for a stop and later for a replay to NURTS. The actual e-mail request to stop the radio was made by Mr. Plamen Kostov, Director of the Department of Technology. There are numerous indications for the award of the radio stop by Mr. Svetoslav Kostov, Director General of the Bulgarian National Radio at this time. The temporary committee cannot ascertain with certainty whether this is present and should be established by the prosecution. If it finds it and qualifies it as a crime, it should be confirmed by the court. However, the Director-General is the person responsible for ensuring the normal operation of the Radio in all its programmes. It was his concern that he should be aware of the checks carried out and ordered, not to carry out and not to allow other persons to carry out gross or systematic violations of the provisions concerning the principles for the performance of radio operators, one of which is the continuity of broadcasting the signal of the Horizon programme. The Director-General should have ensured the smooth and continuous broadcasting of the radio in conditions of pluralism, guaranteeing the right to express his opinion, access to information, ensuring freedom and non-censoring of media services within the framework of the Bulgarian National Radio programmes in any form. He should also have ensured normal work in the Radio in a spirit of collegiality, understanding, freedom of journalists under the laws and rules of work in the Radio, in the interest of the audience. The body to assess the performance of these duties by the Director-General Svetoslav Kostov is the Council for Electronic Media. He considered that Mr. Kostov had failed to perform one or more of his duties properly by allowing the radio to be stopped on 13 September 2019 and by allowing such a gross violation, he released him on 17 October 2019. Regarding the allegations of political pressure on the management and journalists from the Bulgarian National Radio The Temporary Commission finds that there are allegations and indications of pressure on journalists, but they are about pressure from members of the management of the Radio over the journalists themselves. In particular, there are allegations of pressure by Mr. Svetoslav Kostov and Mr. Nikolay Krastev over Mrs. Silvia Velieva, who are supported by Mr. Ivaylo Savov, as well as by Mrs. Daniela Krasovska. These statements are completely denied by Mr. Svetoslav Kostov, as the member of the Board of Directors of BNR Mr. Stefan Tashev points out that no political, economic or other pressure has been put on him or her personally. Mr. Svetoslav Kostov denies any external pressure on him. He claims that corporate or political pressure is occurring after the radio signal is stopped, but does not point out to the Temporary Commission by whom and over whom. Therefore, from the information given by all the hearing to the Temporary Commission, no one clearly indicates specific persons who have put external political pressure on Mrs. Veliwa to be removed from the air. The data submitted is for the leadership's pressure on the journalist. The interim committee is not an investigative body and cannot establish with certainty the credibility of these claims. However, the facts that are established are that hours after the issue of a posting order for Mrs. Velikova to Stara Zagora, the radio stops broadcasting without having a technical reason for doing so. In addition to the establishment of these facts, the Temporary Commission finds that there are indications that there are internal problems in the Radio relating to split in collectives, shaping support in society for specific problems and lack of empathy and solidarity for others. Claims have been made about the existence of imbalance and the privilege of one programme against another. Several other groups of problems emerged during the course of the hearings. They are generally related to indications of problems in funding and the allocation of funds in the Radio. Evidence of opaque and disproportionate spending of funds has been provided. There are also problems of administrative-organization nature. The interim committee stresses that it has neither the power to exercise control nor is interested in interfering with the current work and operational autonomy of the managers of the Radio, and especially in the freedom of the journalists themselves. It is important for the Commission that the change of positions and the displacement of journalists is not the result of political and corporate pressure, but that it is the result of motives that correspond to the concept of the programme. In the course of its work, evident from the hearing of all interested parties, such external political pressure cannot be clearly identified. The interim committee finds that there are indications that the situation of work in the Bulgarian National Radio is unhealthy and allegations of applying different standards and privilege of one journalist to another are presented. This emphasizes the clear responsibility of the Council for Electronic Media in the selection of the Director General and the Management Board of the Bulgarian National Radio, the responsibility of the Bulgarian National Radio managers themselves for ensuring the overall provision of a healthy, fair, pluralistic working environment, in a spirit of understanding and freedom of action in the application of the rules in the same way to everyone and in carrying out the overall activity of the Radio in the interests of the audience, as well as the responsibility which the National Assembly itself has to adopt changes and ensure and create conditions for the implementation of free, pluralistic, quality journalism in the Bulgarian National Radio. On the basis of all this, the BNR should inform precisely, truthfully, timely and properly the audience, such as the legislation setting out sufficient control and liability mechanisms without excessive interference by the regulatory authorities representing the State providing the public interest to the maximum extent. In the interest of clarification of the overall situation in the Radio, it should be pointed out that the monitoring reports provided by the Council for Electronic Media and the Bulgarian National Radio itself show that there is pluralism in the programs, opinions, guests, the way of reporting and the way of providing information to the audience, which despite all the above findings is an indication of a free and independent environment in the Radio. This shows the complexity and inconclusiveness of the problems related to the work of the BNR, outside the powers of the Commission to cover and analyse its causes and consequences in whole and fullness. The interim committee may only find the allegations made to it, accept as established the facts identified by the competent authorities and come up with recommendations and conclusions on the issues referred to. V. Conclusion The temporary committee concludes that there are indications of pressure by Mr. Svetoslav Kostov over Mrs. Sylvia Velieva, based solely on Mrs. Velieva's claims, which are denied by Mr. Kostov. No claims of political or other pressure have been submitted to the Commission by specific persons, parties or other entities over the management of the Radio or over individual journalists. There are allegations of general pressure on Mr. Kostov, which he denies, but does not indicate by whom such pressure has been made by either Mrs. Velikova or others who presented facts and circumstances to the Commission. On 13 September 2019, the signal of the Horizon Programme was suspended and there was no technical reason, but was the result of an explicit decision taken inside the Radio. In the Bulgarian National Radio there are internal problems related to unhealthy working atmosphere, division of the collectives, problems with financing and incompetence of the allocation of funds between the different programmes. The Temporary Commission considers that it should recommend that the Committee on Culture and Media discuss the possibility of putting forward proposals for legislative changes aimed at overcoming shortcomings in the regulatory framework. They should help to create prerequisites for more optimal functioning of the Bulgarian National Radio without excessive interference by the state and subject to the principles of the Constitution and the spirit of the set out in art. 39 The right to express opinions, freedom of the media and other mass media, as well as the right to search, obtain and disseminate information.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u131	Mr. Bikov, present the decision to complete your work and then I will rest.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u132	The Committee for the Study of the facts and circumstances related to the interruption of the broadcast of the program "Moreover" of the Bulgarian National Radio, as well as the allegations of political pressure on the management and journalists from the Bulgarian National Radio. At a meeting held on 20 February 2020, the report on the activities of the Temporary Committee for the Study of the facts and circumstances related to the interruption of the broadcast of the program "Bulgarian National Radio" as well as the allegations of political pressure on the management and journalists of the Bulgarian National Radio was adopted by 6 votes for.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Project! DECISION on the report on the activities of the Temporary Committee for the Study of the facts and circumstances related to the interruption of the broadcast of the program "Model" of the Bulgarian National Radio, as well as the allegations of political pressure on the management and journalists of the Bulgarian National Radio The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 37 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Adopts the Report on the activities of the Temporary Commission for the Study of the facts and circumstances related to the interruption of the broadcast of the program "Programme" of the Bulgarian National Radio, as well as the allegations of political pressure on the management and journalists from the Bulgarian National Radio.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u133	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. That concludes the presentation. After the break, we'll start with the debate. I'm giving it till 12:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u134	Colleagues, let's get back to work. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Mr. Kutev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u135	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On 30 January, I think it was when we discussed the last extension of the term of employment of this committee of inquiry, I tried to introduce a different understanding of how the committees of inquiry should work and parliamentary committees in general. For me, the question of Parliament's image lies in what Parliament can do and, respectively, what a parliamentary committee can do. Then I also set an example with other parliaments -- especially with its American version -- in which such committees -- inquiry committees -- which are made for a certain purpose -- are, in most cases, really a decisive factor in political development, because they are that instrument that can go anywhere. By the way, in a parliamentary republic such as Bulgaria, because the United States is not exactly such, there should be no restrictions on the parliamentary committee. According to the logic of the Constitution and of our state structure, a parliamentary committee should be able to access any information it wants, and there is no way to have a stronger instrument than the parliamentary committee. And then, Mr. Bikov, if you remember, I specifically told you that if we wanted to raise the image of Parliament, this could happen and should happen during this, when such committees are being made, when they are working... not only temporary, but also permanent, they would broadcast the power and power in which everyone, including the Prosecutor General, told you then, should be so good that they would assist to the extent that the parliamentary committee would do its job. From today's perspective, I can say that this report killed parliamentary democracy with mediocrity. Otherwise, it seems to me that you have not made all your efforts to serve the interests of the people as you have sworn. And why is that? You read them a little while ago, but I'll make them brief. You've put three tasks on the Temporary Committee. The first is to make it possible to clarify all the circumstances for the interruption of the broadcast of the program " Horizon" of the Bulgarian National Radio; the second is whether there is political pressure on the management of the Radio, and the third is whether there is political or other pressure on journalists from the Bulgarian National Radio. In the conclusions the answers to the three questions are as follows: With regard to the Horizon Programme. On September 13th, the signal of the programme "Moreover" was stopped, and there was no technical reason for that, but was a result of an explicit decision taken inside the Radio. "Now I want to tell you that we knew this before we did the Commission and this was one of the reasons why we should do the Commission. So it hasn't gone very far in six months, almost six months after two weeks will be six months since the Commission was established on 20 February. You didn't get very far. On the second point in the conclusions, you state that you have indications of pressure from Kostov to Velikova. We are not talking about that there is pressure because Kostov had at some time said otherwise. By the way, this Svetoslav Kostov very much lies. A lot! On the third topic, that no claims of political pressure were presented. Even allegations! If there were indications before that, even the allegations were not presented for political pressure, but there was a general pressure on Kostov, but he denied it. Separately I leave the other things that what you really have come to see in National Radio is a split of the collectives and other such specific terms that I am interested in myself, I think are part of another time, but let's say that this might be important to you. In fact, unlike you, the chief prosecutor in one of his speeches... then still Sotir Tsatsarov, said that there is evidence of a crime, evidence of a crime is there and that there should be a prosecutor's inquiry. He kind of saw that. By the way, the CEM sends protocols and requests to the Attorney General with the opinion that there has been a crime committed on at least two of these points and asks the prosecutor to investigate. That is, for some reason and somehow, the Council for Electronic Media, the Prosecutor General, has gone further than the Temporary Commission, although I say again, a parliamentary committee in a parliamentary republic should stand above all of them. You just said that the Commission is not an investigative body. Well, it's not an investigative body, but it has the authority to interrogate and demand documents from the investigating authorities that you should have done. By the way, the truth is, to be completely honest, that you very much did it. Prosecutor General Sotir Tsatsarov, because obviously this is about the former Prosecutor General, has told the Commission a lot of things, he has told them quite thoroughly. In my opinion, he has done it very much, how to say it, almost completely frankly he has done his job with very few exceptions, with very few exceptions, which are actually the reason for these results. So, from what I understand, the Attorney General was heard on October 7th. From 7 October until now we have November, December, January, February, March 4 months. He gave you very full information about what happened, but weirdly why he let the conversation go to two versions. They're actually a few etudes, and five versions, and a few plots and so on. However, the two versions that exist in this case in the Attorney General are fundamentally different. They kill themselves, they obliterate themselves. Obviously one of these two versions has to be the right one, the other one doesn't, and the difference in which of the two versions is true You know very well, although it is not reflected in this report. You personally know very well that one of these versions can very easily be proven by the only thing the Attorney General on 7 October does not give you, and these are the printouts, as well as the cameras. In other words, the prosecution's conclusions regarding the phone records and the cameras would give you a very clear idea which of the two versions is the correct one, given that, again, Svetoslav Kostov is lying. At least that's what the D.A. said he was lying because the D.A. obviously found that the notification was anti-anti-antacted and wasn't released on the 11th, but on the 12th, and that the system allowed it. And yet Kostov claims to be on the 11th. Not to mention that he didn't remember the place, didn't remember the time, didn't remember anything, dear! It's too heavy! It's a good thing he's not the director of the National Radio anymore, because with this short memory, it's not clear what can happen next. Here the question is actually: why are these results? The two versions. We can very easily get to Mr. Bikov, which of the two versions is true the moment we get the printouts and the cameras, the moment the prosecution does its job, only I have one question: why, according to us, colleagues, the prosecution has not done its job? Why hasn't the D.A. filed these records four months after the D.A. spoke? On January 30th, Mr. Bikov explained to me that he actually asked the new Attorney General, he went and asked him, or he texted him, I don't know how he asked him exactly, but he asked him if there were any new, substantial developments in the case and he told him he didn't. The removal of the versions and the coming out of the truth which of the two versions is the right of the lying Kostov, or the opposite one, well, it stands in the printout. How can they not have a new one in four months? Sotir Tsatsarov said in October that they already have permission from the court to get the printouts. In four months, the D.A. couldn't look at the cameras, didn't look at the prints, didn't take appropriate action, given that the former D.A. says he thinks there are grounds, there's evidence of crimes?! How can there be nothing? Where are these things? The prosecution didn't finish them or didn't want to give them to you? That is why I am telling you that Parliament, if we want it to be a parliament, must be able, we must have the courage and dignity, by swearing to do what we have sworn to do! And so that, when we have become chairman of a committee, we can bring him in so that the Attorney General can do his job! But I understand you. This is about this Geshev, in fact, the current Prosecutor General, in some way conducting an investigation against Geshev, because it is about that all this dramaturgy appears because Sylvia Velieva is obviously being tried to stop from reflecting the protests against the appointment and against the election of Geshev as Prosecutor General. So, can we expect Chief Prosecutor Geshev to complete the investigation of Attorney General Geshev right now? If parliament doesn't make it, to tell you the truth, I can't expect it and I haven't seen it because it's been four months since the event itself. On September 25th, the CEM filed a complaint with the prosecution. From September 25th until October 7, when Sotir Tsatsarov spoke, the huge work was done, only the printouts were left. Since then, I have not seen movement on this matter! By the way, I saw oligarchs arrested with their families, which I don't know if is exactly the best thing for democracy, but that's what the Attorney General does, and I congratulate him on the activity, the struggle! He has the energy and the emotion to check the entire privatisation of the transition so said 30 years of privatization! Let's take a look at what's been going on in the last six months with some printouts. Let's see, when the printout comes up, who exactly had a political impact, because he had a political impact! And that's obvious! And as soon as the printouts come, it will become clear how much Svetoslav Kostov lies, only this does not happen. Why isn't this happening? By the way, I am absolutely convinced that a small part of the MPs in this House should be careful in voting in a moment, because they may find themselves in conflict of interest! Personally, I don't think Geshev called the Director General of the Radio. It's not! Someone else called! [[Reply: Who is it?]] Come on, who is it?! Come on, isn't that what the Commission was trying to tell us who the caller was? Why didn't you get the printouts to find out, Mr. Bikov? You should have been a little more consistent. Now I understand you: you are a member of the government. Why don't you do temporary committees like that, Mr. Bikov? Because when a member of the government heads such a temporary committee, he won't get anywhere because they won't give it to him! Because they didn't give you any! And now I suggest we all help you! I am convinced that Prosecutor General Geshev, personally convinced that the facts should be checked, it was not the one who called. Someone else called. I am convinced that Prosecutor General Geshev has the great desire to do so that the truth and justice in the state finally prevail! So I suggest we don't close the report and we don't end up with a decision on this point until we call the Attorney General Geshev, so he can bring us the printouts along with the results of the investigations of the cameras and find out which of the two versions is actually the right one. Once we find out which of the two versions is the right one, we'll know who to ask about the political pressure that you didn't find in the report. You haven't been able to figure out who made the political pressure, because you're down, Mr. Bikov, and because you were more comfortable missing out on the conversation that's important! What you have done today is a failure for Bulgarian parliamentary democracy! This is the way in which Parliament becomes a fictitious body, and people like you just blur behind those who do what they want! If it turns out, as I see it unambiguously from the testimony of the Attorney General in your committee, that the Director of the Radio, to stop covering the protests against the Attorney General, first, has gone off the air to remove a key journalist; second, tried to send him on a business trip just not to work that day; and third, he tried to stop, and not only tried, but stopped the broadcast on a national radio broadcast, unprecedented case, do you have any idea what kind of fear he's talking about?! Can you imagine how scared this man must have been to do all this?! And now you can see that, and how many times has it been done without being seen? How many times has this gone by without us seeing it? It's just that the man has crossed all limits! Mr. Bikov, you were the man, you were the one who had to understand it, and if you leave now with a clear conscience from here, you should know that you made a mistake. You've got some catching up to do! There are things we need to do with you! So I suggest you support my proposal. I don't know if we're going to end this point today, but we need to listen to the Attorney General, to him bring the phone records, to find out which version is true, to give the prosecution's opinion about this by looking at the cameras when he went in, when he went out, who met whom. This is mandatory and without it we cannot continue. And this report you have made is an insult to democracy, to parliament, to GERB and to you personally! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u136	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Is there a line? I won't. Any other speeches? We continue with the speeches. Here you go, Mr. Simov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u137	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will support to some extent what my colleague Anton Kutev said from this tribune, as the report we are looking at today is a good description of what the Commission has been up to, but it is not doing enough work to explain to us exactly what happened in the Bulgarian National Radio, what was the drama there, who carried it out and exactly what happened. From my work in the Commission for these six months I have established the following thing: the story in BNR is not some side drama, it is a key event that can explain to us how Bulgaria functions today, and that is why I do not accept some of the things that are written in the Report. They are not the conclusions of the Commission, but everything started from a statement by the former Prosecutor General Sotir Tsatsarov, who tried to summarize the drama in the BNR in several plots. It just doesn't exist to me. In the BNR there is a single story and if we tie it up, it looks like this: the Director General takes Sylvia Veliva off the air because he is irritated or because someone told him to take it down so that he doesn't reflect the protests against Geshev, the radio colleagues are getting goosebumps against this download from the air, obviously we cannot find a replacement to lead the broadcast for her, or at least the Director General was afraid of what would happen the next day, and the radio signal is stopped in the way that we found in the Report, so we have a picture of a completely obvious, political pressure that is not reflected in the Report, but because of this, I think that in this form we cannot support him. If we really want Parliament to do some work and be a factor in defending freedom of speech, we need to clarify this case and understand by what mechanism, who and how political pressure have been implemented. Everything else is just pulling over the numbers, everything else is going to slide along sidelines of development so we don't get anywhere to the truth. The media situation in Bulgaria is not pink at all and the plot in BNR clearly proves it. Political pressure is widespread, but when he appeared in the BNR, it was an occasion for the whole society to get goose bumps. We're not giving any answers right now. We present the plot of internal oppositions in the BNR about how colleagues there cannot be seen or there is any tension, but that is not the answer. The tension in the BNR, I think, can be attributed to the constant political pressure the Radio is under, and that is the great truth that we have not said in the Report. In my opinion, it is really good to seek the answers so that we can, at least once in this Parliament, be honest about freedom of speech, and not hear that line, which, how was it that freedom of speech was the work of journalists themselves?! No! It's our job today and here to give the answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u138	Thank you, Mr. Simov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Chenchev, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u139	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will start from this point that, at that time when the Commission started operating, the Chief Prosecutor himself drew before the Commission and reported five plot lines. Further in my speech, I will give you a hint of a sixth that we were not responsible for in the Commission. Do you know what the temporary committee of inquiry actually did? The Report, which has read it, which is not to read it, makes it clear that there is a term that means................ to read it........................................ on the air..................................... This is what the Commission has done, and I am sure that the public will not be aware of and will rather understand that the objectives are not fulfilled, as they were originally set. There are many disturbing moments here. Of course, first of all is the question: why has the signal been stopped that has been established? And, notice, a lot of Jesuit has been replaced by the signal shutting down with the National Radio and Television Command's claim that they say there's actually a signal broadcasting, but the signal broadcasting is the sound of silence, that's what broadcasts the radio. Is there any political pressure for this? Are the two plots tied up, part of the plots that the Attorney General Sotir Tsatsarov talked about at the time? I thank him for coming and so detailedly presented the facts to the Commission. And the guy there said to himself the most officially that we were waiting for the printouts, so at this point we didn't have any data, but there are a lot of other disturbing things that shined up after this interim committee is sitting. The report also states on page 12: "It is also found that the radio's business system allowed a document on the 12th to be taken with a date of 11th. That's how the radio was run. Something else has been established by the words of the Prosecutor General communication even through the Viber application, with a service telephone, between the Director of Radio Horizon and the Director General, and other directors, and writes here in the Report that the Prosecutor's Office has requested this phone from the Radio and the phone has been taken for expertise. With the suspension of the broadcast of the Programme, the notification in question has been received. Note now here another one is coming, and here is perhaps the sixth storyline of this notification the Director-General has resolated with a "da" because he thought it was just a prevention of a Studio Complex of the National Radio. Okay, if he thought it was just about prevention of a studio complex, and they're stopping the signal at all about the Horizon programme, then don't we have a plot line in terms of how his own employees in the Radio are misleading him and why? Why? Something else curious. For example, based on this inspection and the results of the inspection, Sotir Tsatsarov said that the monitoring prosecutor from the Sofia District Prosecutor's Office will decide to initiate pre-trial proceedings. In other words, according to him, there is evidence of a crime, ladies and gentlemen of the House. I continue with my hearing Tsatsarov states that the so-called plot lines are from the point of view of the initiating document which leads to the formation of a file or pre-trial proceedings. In practice, one is in pre-trial proceedings and the other is still in a phase examination, but it will also become pre-trial proceedings. So there's two violations. And perhaps in the end, because the colleagues were detailed enough. On 13 September 2019, the signal of the Horizon Programme was suspended and there was no technical reason for that, but as a result of an explicit decision taken within the Radio. Yeah, why? Why was this decision made inside the Radio when there was no need to prevent the studio complex? This is the answer that the Temporary Commission should have given....................................................................................................... And that's after we have the printouts? I did not read to you here after this and for other details about what the Commission should have received. I request an extension of the speaking time, Mr. Chairman. We have registered, how can I tell you, I think this has been adopted in full by the Commission by the way, we have registered an administrative-skilling. Come on, not chaos, but in any case a serious problem. The Radio Management Board at that date, according to what a representative of the Governing Council said, did not know what was happening, what signal stopped and so on. Moreover, ladies and gentlemen! The Governing Council at this time does not sign the weekly program of the various broadcasts of the Radio, which seems strange to me, even more so that there are schedules for work in these programmes and for the relevant hosts and these schedules are being changed. Just like that, changed! Today, on Monday, one schedule is set, then on Tuesday another schedule may be attached, perhaps with comfortable people, perhaps according to the events that are, say, force majeure, like the protests. And that's disturbing. And that's what the Radio Board said. By the way, I made a remark in the report to reflect this thing because we have reflected that there are internal problems in the National Radio, and that is so. There really, to put it mildly, there is no collegial atmosphere, because we have listened to all sides, which is worrying because they are all journalists and they all have to work on the same base. Another is the question and what we have been having as a debate in the Commission: are there conditions for pluralism? This is a very different matter which also concerns freedom of speech. Now that all of this has happened, there is, for example, what I was telling you a little while ago, the Governing Council already knows, it is already signing the weekly program of the Radio and it cannot be drawn up until the Governing Council has signed, at least so we were confident. In the Radio there is now a new Director-General, a new Director-General, elected by the CEM, as according to the Law. This new Director-General, probably or on the presentation he made, is American know-how, I guess, or at least he acts as he saw there, overseas. Ladies and gentlemen, I must tell you that, without asking its Management Board, the newly elected Director General of the Radio said in terms of proposals for a new Radio and Television Act that the Radio may give up the intended means of advertising there and the corresponding percentages if the State grants more money than the budget. Without asking the Governing Council, about which the Governing Council was, to put it mildly, surprised by this statement of the Director-General, who, by the way, on the day we discussed this and he was present, was not aware of what it was about at all. I know a lot of people, and I know the radio really does work for professionals. The issue is not to work for anyone except the Bulgarian people. This is the main question because they are national radio, they are public media and they support themselves with the taxpayer's money. That's all that matters. Was there political pressure? My personal opinion, stating it from this tribune, I say to you: absolutely yes! And the fact that there were allegations, indications that the report said, absolutely yes, but we don't know because we have no printouts, Mr. Bikov, and we were promised by the Attorney General at this time. And when we extended the Commission's deadline here on 30 January, we warned you that we agreed to extend the Commission's deadline just to find out... Okay, if we can't and we don't have the right to read what's in these printouts, because there's pre-trial proceedings, at least the D.A.'s office tells us if there's any data, or there isn't. It's very simple. But they don't tell us that. And the Commission couldn't establish that thing. Everything here would be the subject of a completely different conversation if we had these printouts, something it says in the Report. It says in the report, but there's no printout. Well, what did this temporary committee do then? Did he fulfill his purpose to establish all the facts and circumstances? The technical reasons are understood: the RATs are broadcasting silence on the air. Why, why? That's very Jesuit to say that you didn't actually stop the signal, but you were broadcasting a signal that was silence! That's a lot of stuff. There are really very disturbing things, so my colleague Alexander Simov and I have signed this report with a particular opinion and will not support it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u140	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. - What's the line? I won't. We continue with the speeches. Mr. Bikov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u141	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I understand the criticality of BSP colleagues. Of course, the Commission's expectations were likely that it would eventually come out and pass judgment on these cases. This could not have happened and quite consciously as President, I have not sought this. By the way, the fact that I am President does not matter at all, because this committee was of 10 people, two from each parliamentary group, so that the powers that I had had had them all the MPs and, in fact, I believe that in this committee we worked in a constructive spirit and if not 100%, but 90% of the decisions in it were taken with full unanimity. What was the purpose of this committee, which was requested by the Bulgarian Socialist Party in the midst of the scandal with the Radio? The first goal for me was if we weren't able to help, at least not hurt. Because our committee is on the verge of political intervention in a public media and I have made it very clear that this committee can be accused in one way or another that it itself is exerting political pressure. I think that we have remained within the framework of the law and within the framework of decency neutral and in relation to the various lobbys in the Radio, because there are, obviously, and there are not even two, but there are a lot of them, and they are acting and seeking political support from one political force or another, and they are seeking political support from one or another Commissioner, and from the Temporary Commission. Personally, I have had many conversations, although I have tried to limit them only to the Commission, where we were all colleagues. However, the purpose of this committee was to follow the whole process and, as far as its powers are concerned, to inform the National Assembly, and hence the Bulgarian society of what happened in the Radio from its point of view, to have one more point of view on this issue. We have a point of view on one side, we have a point of view on the other side, we have a point of view on the prosecution, we have a point of view on the CEM, we have a point of view on the CRC. With the current report we also have the view of a large part of the Bulgarian Parliament. Another part says it distinguishes itself and, of course, it is her right. There are two cases. Yes, it can be interpreted that they are part of a case, but, rudely speaking, we in the Commission have looked at them one at a time so that there is some order in the work of our committee. The first case is related to the stop of the signal or the sound of silence. I don't think it really matters if it's a stop signal, or if it's a signal of silence. In the conclusions of the report it is pointed out that responsibility for the work of the Radio is primarily borne by the Director-General of the Radio. Whether he was misled, as he claims, whether he himself decided to stop the Radio, whether the technical director, although both in the hearing of the Attorney General and in the hearing of the technical director Plamen Kostov, were even provided evidence that phone calls were conducted, but since the case is more technical, there can be found concrete clues about who was doing what. However, there is no verdict, we cannot condemn Mr. Svetozar Kostov in Parliament, but as such a commission we can say that the Director General is responsible for this situation in the Radio. He is also responsible for relations in BNR and for the working atmosphere. And this isn't just about this director. Obviously, a series of general directors in the Radio have failed to do well enough to provide a normal working atmosphere, because, believe me, in the Bulgarian National Radio at the time of the crisis and, in my opinion, the normal working atmosphere is quite abstract. There are people who have fought, for example, and who are sending signals to the Fourth District and so on. We also looked at this case, which is also linked to the crisis, because, as far as we understand it, the fight or the fight was about these relations. The technical question was relatively easier. From there, we come to the question of political pressure. Personally, I asked Mrs. Sylvia Velieva: Do you have any idea where the political pressure you are talking about is being carried out on the director of the Radio? She said, "No, I don't have such assumptions." Now you want me to have conjecture, and you're burdening me with that responsibility. You want printouts, that's another question. I'll tell you about the printouts. What do you mean, printouts? You're turning printouts into the key to solving this case. I believe that this will be rather harmful to the resolution of this case. That's my personal opinion. It's not in the report. Why? A printout means showing who he was talking to on the phone, not on whatsApp, not on the street, not somewhere else, just on the private cell phone or working with which people the Radio Director General was talking to. Probably talked to 20, 30, 40 people. From then on, we bring these 30 people into society's turnover and start leading them on committees, first here, then probably on TV. Each of them tells his point of view. Perhaps if there is political pressure, the person who has put it will say: I have not put political pressure on him. And we can't prove it because these aren't the SRS, these aren't conversations that we can see what they're talking about. In reality, this will create more speculation on this subject, which, on the other hand, will completely cloud the fuzzy environment around this case anyway. Do you think the D.A. has any printouts? Probably there is. Mr. Tsatsarov said he would. However, these printouts are part of the investigation. By the way, printouts can be disclosed in serious crimes, to be requested. Mr. Tsatsarov said he would. The communication between Parliament and Mr. Geshev does not seem to begin and end with our temporary committee. She can go on. There is a Committee on Culture and Media, which also has a commitment to the media, also has a commitment to this case. And there, if necessary, this case could be continued. There is a practice for the Attorney General to be called to committees. The BSP colleagues also have representatives in the Committee on Culture and Media, they can call the Prosecutor General. Personally, I believe that printouts not only will not help solve this case, but they can also prevent, because they will not show anything, but create only speculation. I believe that the Commission has done what it can do. Such heavy phrases: failure of democracy, of parliamentaryism and so on I have no self-esteem that I can do such great damage to Bulgarian democracy, I am not that talented. But I think we should end up sticking to the law and some institutionality. You set an example with the American Parliament, but the American Parliament has its rules and its laws to abide by. And he's probably following them. If we have to learn from it, we should learn to obey the laws in our parliament. Yes, you want us to point out who made the political pressure on the Commission, not a single name has been mentioned in the Commission for four months. We've listened to a lot of people from both groups. We've seen that there's administrative chaos, that's a fact. And not just administrative chaos. I think there's chaos in the BNR, and I'm not hiding it. If there is a threat to freedom of speech there, in my opinion, it consists precisely in this disorder and in this division that exists in the BNR, which makes it a good terrain for political interventions, which, again, I would repeat after these four months, I am of the opinion that in the Radio there may be an opportunity for someone outside to influence, but I also do not rule out the possibility of looking inside for political support for one or another cause. We have seen the monitoring of the BNR and here concerns about freedom of speech seem a little exaggerated specifically in the BNR. We saw how the radio behaved during the crisis. It's been more than free. Three monitorings reviewed the internal of the BNR, external of the BNR and monitoring of the CEM. Inside it is found that there is pluralism, different people are invited. As a listener of BNR, I will tell you that I am at least even observing a very serious criticality in terms of management. Where did you see this lack of freedom of speech in BNR? Especially there. On the contrary, I believe that the BNR, even at certain times, is mentioned in one of the monitoring reports, at certain times some of the leading ones even exceed their obligations as journalists from public media, allowing themselves to make suggestions and comments.. something that public media journalists are not allowed to do just because it is public media. But I am personally inclined in the name of journalistic freedom to accept that too. And as a matter of fact, we haven't even noted it in the report. I haven't had the illusion that our committee could end this case in the first place. He will probably continue because at the very least there are pre-trial proceedings and will probably come to court now, this is a matter for the prosecution, but action has been taken to complete it on a judicial basis anyway. The Council for Electronic Media released the then Director General of the Bulgarian National Radio. We had a new one already elected, and in the meantime we had a poster. Surely, in such a short period of time, events are traumatic for people who work at the Radio. I also hope that we, as people who are engaged in these problems, and also as a parliament that is obliged to guarantee freedom of speech in public media, will try to help, not harm. Or, if we're not sure we can help, at least try not to get in the way and do no harm. Let the new leadership try to introduce some minimum order to the BNR, which seems to me to be an extremely difficult and important task. Let's not let ourselves parasitize on this subject, because every word we say and act affects the people who work in BNR. I do not claim that they are responsible for what happened, what happened and happened, but I hope they find some peace. Because BNR is not only journalism, BNR is one of the main producers of national culture and of national identity through their orchestras, which, in my opinion, are the most enjoyable thing to hear at BNR. Given that we were able to listen to some of the journalists inside, new and new people appeared with each case, who wanted to tell their domestic conflicts over the years with one another, and we risked, if we were to extend the work of the Commission once again, to get into all of this and ultimately not be able to draw elementary conclusions. The records meant that we had to call the Commission another 50 people and it probably would have continued after the end of the current National Assembly. And in the end, we, among other things, had to have some sort of feat of the job so that we could at least get the result of us. Once again, I call on you not to exercise too much on this subject and, who is willing, I am absolutely certain that it can help in this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u142	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Mr. Nedyalkov, a line or a statement? You have a statement. Then Mr. Kutev, Mr. Chenchev, and the third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u143	Dear Mr. Bikov, I will start with your question where did you see a lack of freedom of speech in BNR with a counter-question: where were you looking? Because I found out from what I saw that when you didn't get the printouts and you had to test another 50 people, you didn't find out the fact that actually a journalist was taken off the air, posted, and stopped the radio signal at the same time so that a broadcast wouldn't be held because someone wanted her not to. Isn't that some kind of rude effect on freedom of speech?! Tell you why you didn't see him. Because the Commission's objectives are one thing, and the objectives that you have just reported on us are different. I quote: "If we do not help, at least we do not harm as far as we can." "We want to give one more point of view." Mr. Bikov, you are the chairman of a parliamentary committee whose other point of view is around you? Look, a parliamentary committee is set up when there is a glitch in the system, when somewhere the other systems of the state have not worked, and the work of Parliament and the parliamentary committee is to arrange the system, to put order into it. You didn't see any political impact?! I saw it, Mr. Bikov! Boyko Borisov called the head of the Radio after the scandal and the next day Silvia Veliva was back at work. Isn't that a political impact?! True, in this case, in the right direction, but it is an uncontrolled political impact. Where were you looking at all this time?!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u144	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u145	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Without any thought of parasitizing or exercise, however, to pay attention to why printouts are important. We are actually aware that this is a telephone traffic that needs to be established, requested by the prosecution. Mr. Bikov, the Prosecutor's Office has been authorised by the Sofia District Court, the judicial acts have been received and now, note: on October 7, the Sofia District Prosecutor's Office filed these judicial acts that allow access to the data, calls to the phones of the mobile operators concerned. According to Mr. Tsatsarov, the prosecution expects the answers from mobile operators about traffic. Since October 7th! Today we all know what month we are, what date we are, and that is what the Temporary Commission should have been aware of long ago. If not, get these so-called printouts or phone traffic, because we can, Mr. Bikov, get into a situation where there are 30 names coming out of the phone traffic records, but it would be very interesting to see if there is a political name inside. That's what I'm talking about. The D.A. can tell us no one exactly what time he called, or he can tell us there's or there's no data. That can tell us exactly who called. That's what she can tell us, and she wants these printouts for a reason. Not even we, and you know that the Attorney General came and said, "Wait for these printouts in the Temporary Commission.".... and we expect them for six months, in the end nothing. That is why we are talking about with nothing and no intention of parasitizing anything on our part. It's an important topic! And one more thing. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Mr. Chairman. I do not remember saying that there is no freedom of speech in the Bulgarian National Radio! On the contrary, the exact presence of criticality already leads to the attempt to post journalists, download from the air, stop signals or broadcast silence...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u146	Thank you, dear Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u147	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u148	A hole, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u149	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Kutev! I believe that you could have said all this and even before we did the Commission. You had a finished version, sentencing, and now you want the Commission to seal them for you four months before the hearing, before we did anything. The fact is, the Prime Minister said it, but as chairman of GERB, as one of the leaders of parties, that he would practically lower his confidence by the Director General of BNR. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] He can say as a party leader that he has no confidence in the Director General of BNR and I don't think that's much news. With regard to the printouts, I'll say it again. Nothing's gonna get out of these printouts of whether the D.A. got them or what she did to them. I don't think there's much he can do, because these printouts don't show what was said. Otherwise, I will remind you that if you need to see the printouts, they will be from one election period, by the way, which makes the process even more complicated. This is the period before the local elections, when the intensity of the talks of the Director General of BNR even with political people from political parties are probably serious. I don't know who he's talking to. I am sure, however, that he has spoken to many people, and neither of us can understand what he has spoken to them so that he can draw some far-reaching conclusion. There can be speculation, there can be some kind of People's Court in which we can accuse everyone who has spoken to the head of the BNR, but I do not intend to participate in such a thing. I think that despite everything we have done in this committee, we have worked well, and I will therefore thank all of its members who have responded responsibly to their work and have really tried to help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u150	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Mr. Nedyalkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u151	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will be very brief, because many things have been said. Firstly, I cannot accept the structure of the Report, which has been scattered on many topics in various places, looked at by many authors. Perhaps the most accurate would have been the temporal setting of things in order to see the logic of the events, which should have been so clarified that it could accurately and clearly tell which event after what followed. There's one thing here that really bothers me. The conversation itself, when it affects Sylvia Velieva to leave her portfolios and the next day not to lead, is at 2.30 p.m. on 12 September. At 16.30 the Prime Minister called, at 20:00 they restore Sylvia Veliva to the posts at which she is, and then this message appears. [[the MP shows photography]] which still stands on the BNR website that tomorrow the 13th radio stops. It bothers me very much, ladies and gentlemen, that the one who influenced the Director-General is even over the Prime Minister. The other thing I'd like to say. The Commission report nearly commissioned the Commission on television and radio to adopt such legal amendments to facilitate the operation of the Bulgarian National Radio. No, ladies and gentlemen, the committee itself had to prepare which texts in the Bulgarian Radio Act contradict and can be improved. This thing is gone, which means that this committee really managed to make things so that it would broadcast a dead end. I also disagree with the argument that the conflicts in the Radio.. interpersonal and others, division, contribute to something bad. On the contrary, on the surface the Bulgarian National Radio, as heard as well as the monitoring reports, prove that it is a truly pluralistic media, which means it is very dangerous with calls for order to be introduced. The introduction of order to the journalistic profession means limiting freedom of speech! I've experienced it! Two words on the printout. 20 years ago, I personally had a printout of the conversations 20 minutes before September 13, 1999, because the accusations against me as a journalist were that I was prompted by the State Security authorities to make the so-called Lovechgate. After making sure even the police themselves and the prosecution that I do not have a single conversation with a representative of State Security back, the accusations were dropped and the Minister of Interior apologized to the entire journalistic guild in Bulgaria. Thank you for your attention. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u152	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. Are there any lines? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u153	One clarification, Mr. Nedyalkov. I don't mean bringing order to journalism. I am referring to the introduction of an administrative order, for example, not being able to reverse input numbers and no one can explain how this happened and how this system allows. This is the order I'm talking about, which is also the basis of the fact that right now we even have some ambiguities about a technical problem, such as stopping the radio. Otherwise, journalism is difficult to put in order, and I agree with you that order should not be there, but also in public media I hope the journalists themselves, and they do so the vast majority of them, all work with the responsibility that they are journalists from public media. And the fact that conflict helps, I don't agree at all. You can work far more wisely, because if you were in the Commission, you could hear what was said, you probably wouldn't have made that statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u154	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Another line? I can't see. A hole, Mr. Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Bikov, I agree with your findings that there really should be an administrative order in the Radio. I would like to tell you that it was precisely the lack of administrative order that led to such confusion in the former Director-General Kostov himself, who, if you recall, said at the beginning that the reason for removing Mrs. Velikova from the air was her job description. You didn't find that in the report. Two hours later, he changed his statement and said that this was under the action of the then Director of the Programme "Moreover." These are the kind of things that really shouldn't be allowed. Moreover, there is an effect of this committee, which I can personally admit, although I do not agree with much of the Report that this committee will again put before the Attorney General and the investigating authorities this problem, which has been put into oblivion anyway. They must come up with a solution, they must come up with their position on the truth, because in the end a system, even the Bulgarian National Radio system, is primarily a struggle for the truth. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u156	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. We continue with the speeches. Are there any other people? I'm closing the debate. Procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u157	Dear Mr. Chairman! I had an offer, so I'm taking the procedure because I want you to put my proposal in the vote. I mean, I demand that the Attorney General be called to the Parliamentary Hall, and I personally believe that this should be before the adoption of the Temporary Commission Report. Since colleagues have failed to call Prosecutor Geshev, the entire National Assembly should do so. Therefore, my procedural proposal is, if the report is adopted, to be accepted under the condition that the report has actually been adopted, but we invite the Attorney General to complete the work that Mr. Bikov and the Commission have failed to do before then. Colleagues from GERB, I firmly tell you that this is better for the Prosecutor General, because otherwise the doubts that the protests against Geshev limited them to Geshev himself will always remain. Someone else is limiting them. It's better for him. I hope with the courage he works with, that he will accept this challenge.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u158	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. I cannot put to the vote the draft decision under condition, but you can use further the possibilities that the Rules give to invite or propose another solution. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the draft decision presented to you. They voted 145 MPs: 97 against 48 abstentions. The motion is accepted. We continue with the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS IN HUMAN MEDICIA. Importer is the Council of Ministers. You have the floor, Mrs. Daritkova, to present the Report of the Committee on Health.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u159	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please be admitted to the Chamber Deputy Minister of Women Nacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u160	Thank you. I shall put the proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u161	Vote 124 MPs: 115 against 5, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u162	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, No 002-01-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 January 2020. At its regular meeting on 13 February 2020, the Committee on Health examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, No 002-01-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 January 2020. The meeting was attended by: Deputy Minister of Health Mrs. Zheny Nacheva, Executive Director of the Executive Agency The draft and its reasons were presented by Mrs. Zheny Nacheva, who informed the MPs that the proposed legislative changes aimed at fulfilling the commitments conferred by Decision No 704 of the Council of Ministers of 2018, adopting measures for the transformation of the model of administrative service, establishing conditions for implementing Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2016/161 of 2 October 2015 supplementing Directive 2001/83/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council by laying down detailed rules on safety indicators placed on the packaging of medicinal products for human use, improving control on retail trade in medicines and others. Ms. Nacheva clarified that in order to ensure competition opportunities between market participants, it is expressly prohibited for the same trader to hold both a retail authorisation and a wholesale marketing authorisation for medicinal products. The procedures for the regulation and registration of the prices of medicinal products and the inclusion of medicinal products in the Positive Drug List shall be laid down at the level of the law as the regulation is currently in a regulation. These procedures shall have the character of administrative regimes within the meaning of art. 4 of the Law on the limitation of administrative regulation and administrative control of business, which is why the system is in law and does not change the current requirements for carrying out these activities. In order to reduce the administrative burden of granting the authorisation for the production of medicinal products, it is proposed to waive the requirement for the applicant to submit a permit for the use of the premises and the verification of the presence of such products will be carried out by the Drug Executive Agency in a professional capacity. An analog change for the same purpose is also provided for in respect of the required hygienic conclusion of the relevant regional health inspection when issuing a marketing authorisation for medicinal products in a pharmacy. This hygienic conclusion will be provided by professional interaction between RZI and IAL. The bill establishes conditions for the implementation of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2016/161 of 2 October 2015 supplementing Directive 2001/83/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council by laying down detailed rules on safety performance on the packaging of medicinal products for human use in national legislation. A procedure shall also be laid down which regulates the obligations and actions of the entities concerned in case of suspicion of a falsified medicinal product in accordance with art. Art. 24, Art. 30 of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2016/161. The specific entity in Bulgaria, responsible for the establishment, management, functioning and maintenance of the National Register under art. 32, para. 1 point (b) of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2016/161, namely the Bulgarian Organisation for Verification of Medicines. Control of pharmacies is optimized, which is currently not effective enough due to duplication of functions and lack of good interaction between competent authorities. In view of the functions of the RZI under their territorial competence in the field of control of the marketing of medicinal products in the areas of the area concerned and due to the lack of territorial divisions of the IAL on the ground, regulatory changes are necessary in order to increase the effectiveness of control, coordination and interaction between IAL and RZI in the exercise of their powers. The RGIs, within their competence, are intended to assist the IALs in carrying out the control activities of medicinal products in the area concerned, as well as control over the implementation of the orders for withdrawal of medicinal products from the sites located in the area concerned. The treatment options for patients are extended by regulating the use of medicinal products beyond their intended indications in the absence of another alternative to treatment and only in the presence of scientific grounds. This will only be performed exceptionally, under the supervision of a doctor who will be fully responsible for the treatment. The aim is to create more treatment options in cases where there are no other alternatives for patients. The Law proposes the creation of a National Pharmacy Card, which will determine the needs of the population for access to medicinal products provided by pharmacies and identify the areas, municipalities and settlements with a shortage of pharmacies. By drawing up the National Pharmacy Card it will be possible to establish the access of the population to pharmacies, taking into account their territorial distribution, their distribution according to the demographic structure of the population and according to the activities they carry out, and an assessment of the needs of Master Pharmacists and assistant pharmacists working in pharmacies will be carried out. It is envisaged that, on the basis of the National Pharmacy Card, a shortage of pharmacies and activities they carry out should be implemented measures to stimulate the provision of medicinal products, and in such settlements they will be able to operate at a second or subsequent address pharmacies authorised to retail medicinal products in a light administrative procedure. The implementation of these measures will not create administrative restrictions, nor will it lead to interference in the free competitive environment in which pharmacies operate. The transitional and final provisions propose amendments and additions to the Health Insurance Act, which determine the commitment of the health care contractors to provide compulsory health insurance persons with medical assistance from the package guaranteed by the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for which they have concluded a contract with the NHIF without requiring and accepting from them payment and/or additional payment. Specific options for acceptance of payment and supplementary payment shall be laid down explicitly by the mandatory health insured persons for their medical assistance, specifying in full the cases in which this is admissible. Treatment with medicinal products in malignancies, life-threatening bleedings and emergency surgery and invasive interventions in patients with congenital coagulopathy and indications of continuation of treatment above the minimum hospital stay defined in the National Framework Treaty for medical activities shall be excluded from the eligible cases. It is also agreed that the right of the compulsory health insured persons during their hospital stay on their own initiative to receive, in return for payment, specific additional services requested and that the activities included in those services are proposed and the order for their receipt to be determined by a regulation of the Minister of Health. An explicit framework shall be established with regard to the authority and order in which an assessment of the medical needs will be carried out and a failure will be established according to the National Health Card in the cases referred to in art. 59b, para. 7 of the S.I.E.L.D. It is proposed to be RZI as an authority implementing the state health policy in the area concerned and best known the local health system. The purpose of the Appendix is to provide clarity on the competent authority that will carry out this activity, as there is currently a different interpretation and application of the provision. The hypothesis of art. 59, para. 1a which does not apply the prohibition on the conclusion of contracts between the NHIF and new hospital care facilities and new medical activities. It is envisaged that the ban should not apply in the case of newly occurring circumstances and an established failure of the relevant hospital medical care in the area at the time of the application for the conclusion of the contract on the basis of an assessment of the needs of the National Health Card. It is proposed that the assessment of failure of the relevant hospital medical care should be carried out by the Executive Agency. The proposed regulatory changes set a time limit for carrying out the expertise in expensive medical care and medicinal products from the NHIF, thereby guaranteeing patients' rights to receive timely medical care. An exception to the prohibition on the payment by the NHIF of hospital care carried out by a doctor not mentioned in the contract between the NHIF and a contractor as a specialist of a basic contract of employment is permitted. Payment will be allowed where this specialist is a habilitated person on a list established by the Supervisory Board of the NHIF, where his activity is for the purpose of training medical professionals of the medical establishment and the NHIF has given consent to this under conditions and in order established by the Supervisory Board. In this way, the provision of medical assistance to patients and the acquisition of practical experience and skills from medical professionals is achieved. A requirement is laid down for the NHIF to validate a price signature for the provision of information and consultation from its information system to natural and legal persons, and these references will not contain personal data. The purpose of the proposal is to clearly define the price of this administrative service in accordance with the costs of the NHIF for the information provision activity. The price list is intended to be published on the NHIF website. As a result of the proposed legal change, the NHIF will be able to provide relevant information against retribution of the costs of carrying out the activity. The bill establishes an obligation for NHIF to pay the pharmacies 2 BGN. for each reported prescription form with prescribed medicinal products whose level of payment by the NHIF is one hundred. This payment is also a fact, but it is regulated in Ordinance No 10 of 2009 on the conditions, arrangements, mechanism and criteria for payment by the National Health Insurance Fund for medicinal products, medical devices and dietary foods for special medical purposes, negotiating concessions and implementing mechanisms ensuring predictability and sustainability of the NHIF budget. The proposed Appendix aims to make this cost of NHIF sustainable at law level so that there is no doubt about the existence of a valid legal basis for its implementation. This payment is necessary because pharmacies that provide medicinal products whose level of pay from the NHIF is one hundred percent do not form a profit from this. The amendments and additions to the Medical Devices Act are proposed in order to create a legal basis for collecting information on the value of medical devices supplied on the Bulgarian market from third countries, implementing measures by PMS No 704 of 2018 and collecting systematized information necessary for carrying out the state health policy related to optimal planning of the costs of medical devices. The opinion of the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union was presented by Professor Asena Stoimenova, who expressed principled support for the proposed bill. She stressed that a very serious and thorough analysis of the individual provisions should be made, taking into account the current development of the sector. It has been stated that, if the considerations presented are not taken into account, there is a real risk that the practical application of some of the requirements of the law would be seriously difficult. Attention was also paid to the fact that the planned payment of 2 BGN. for each reported prescription form with prescribed medicines whose level of pay from the NHIF is one hundred, does not correspond to the economic reality in the country. In conclusion, Professor Stoimenova stressed that the specific proposals on the different texts of the provisions are contained in the written opinion of the word organization. The President of the Bulgarian Association of Assistant Pharmacists expressed principle support for the proposed regulatory changes, specifying that the provision of art. 220 of the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine (CLPHM) should be refined and adapted to the current qualification of assistant pharmacists. This is extremely important in order to create a legal opportunity for pharmacies to operate at a second and/or next address in order to improve access to pharmaceutical care in small towns. Mrs. Petrova expressed readiness between the first and second votes of the bill to provide the Committee on Health with concrete proposals on some of the texts of the proposed provisions. The pharmacies' Association believes that relevant information about the achievement of the objectives with which the National Pharmacy Card is created is mostly available in the informational arrays of IAL, RZI and NSI. This information needs to be systematized and united, thus easily establishing the number of existing pharmacies, their addresses, the activities they carry out, as well as all the information from the public register under art. 230 of the GLPH, without involving multiple administrative capacity for the formation of new committees and bodies. Similarly, without particular difficulties, the number of day-to-day pharmacies in the territory of each municipality and district can be determined and the needs of the population of the existence of such pharmacies can be identified. A concern was expressed that the National Pharmacy Card and the related proposed regulation could be used as a means of limiting the constitutionally established principle of free economic initiative in opening new pharmacies in economically developed settlements. This could lead to a limitation of the competitive environment and the entry of new retailers in medicinal products. According to the Association, the proposal that persons who received permission to trade medicinal products should receive 2 BGN. for each reported prescription form with prescribed medicines whose level of pay from the NHIF is one hundred is unfair and does not correspond to the current economic relations in society. It was stressed that for more than eight years the amount of this payment has not been changed, despite increasing labour costs and inflation rates for this period. Ms. Boryana Marinkova presented the opinion of the Bulgarian Association for the Development of parallel drug trade, which states that the legislative approach to the provision of almost a whole regulation to be reproduced in the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine is incorrect, because they largely contain detailed technical requirements, procedures and rules which are subject to frequent change and are subject to regulation. It has been stressed that the existing legal capacity of the participants in the drug supply system and patients to seek their rights in judicial order is also taken away when such a need is present. Ms. Marinkova introduced the MPs and the concrete proposals of the Association aimed at improving the access to medicinal products of Bulgarian citizens, stating that during the public discussion of the bill these proposals were not adopted by the importer. During the discussion, the members of the Committee on Health raised specific questions regarding the long-term policy in the field of medicinal products, the need to create a National Pharmacy Card, as well as the reasons for the existence of a number of provisions which are subject to regulation in a regulation. Attention was given to the fact that some of the proposed amendments and additions raise serious concerns and should be placed on wide public discussion with all interested parties before a final decision is taken. Some of the MPs strongly objected to the approach by which substantial changes to the basic laws governing the structure and functioning of the health system are carried out once again, with the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Bill. The Members of the National Assembly agreed that in order to achieve the objectives set out in the reasons of the bill, a second vote should review and refine the texts of some of the proposed provisions. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: 11 votes for.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u163	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. Colleagues, I give the floor for speeches. Here you go, Mr. Mikhailov, then Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u164	There's another report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u165	What's that? Ah, another report. I'm sorry, but I don't have it in my file. To the European Commission, yes. I just don't find it here in my papers, and that's why. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u166	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, No 002-01-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 January 2020. At its regular meeting on 26 February 2020, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, No 002 01 5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 January 2020. The bill was presented by Mrs. Zheny Nacheva Deputy Minister of Health. The bill establishes conditions in national legislation implementing Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2016/161 of 2 October 2015 supplementing Directive 2001/83/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council by laying down detailed rules on safety performance on the packaging of medicinal products for human use. There are no sanctions in national law to prevent the entry of falsified medicinal products and to violate rules on compliance with the safety performance of medicinal products. The obligations and actions of participants in the legal supply chain of medicinal products are also not regulated in case of suspicion of a falsified medicinal product. Therefore, the Law provides for sanctions for those involved in the drug supply chain, specifying their commitments in order to have full clarity on their due behaviour in this area. Another change aims to optimize control of pharmacies as it is currently not effective enough due to duplication of functions and lack of good interaction between competent authorities. A legal obligation to interact and coordinate the activities of the Drug Executive Agency in the field of control of medicinal products with regional health inspections shall be established. This amendment will result in better interaction between the Drug Executive Agency and regional health inspections in the field of medicinal products control in order to effectively prevent and stop offences. Regional health inspections within the scope of their competence shall be possible to assist the Drug Executive Agency in carrying out the control activities of medicinal products in the area concerned. For greater efficiency in relation to the orders issued for withdrawal of medicinal products, regional health inspections shall be empowered to carry out controls on the implementation of the orders for withdrawal of medicinal products from the premises located in the territory of the area concerned. The treatment options for patients are extended by regulating the administration of medicinal products beyond their specified indications in the absence of another alternative to treatment and only in the presence of scientific grounds. This will only be performed exceptionally under the supervision of a doctor who will be fully responsible for the treatment. The aim is to give more treatment options, resulting in more effective treatment in cases where there are no other alternatives for patients. The bill lays down the establishment of regulatory regulations that will lead to more optimal access of the population to medicinal products from pharmacies through the creation of a National Pharmacy Card. The National Pharmacy Card will determine the needs of the population for access to medicines provided by pharmacies and identify the districts, municipalities and settlements with a shortage of pharmacies. It will also enable the establishment of a National Pharmacy Card to establish the access of the population to pharmacies, taking into account their territorial distribution, their distribution according to the demographic structure of the population and according to the activities they carry out. The measures do not create administrative restrictions, nor do they lead to interference in the free competitive environment in which pharmacies operate. Where there is a shortage of services provided by pharmacies, all pharmacies in the relevant area shall be able to disclose a second/next address if they comply with the legal requirements. The expected result of the amendments to the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine is to ensure that Delegated Regulation (EU) 2016/161 is implemented, to increase the effectiveness of control over medicinal products in order to prevent and stop offences. The most complete and complex arrangements of administrative services in the field of medicinal products shall be provided at the legal level. There are also amendments and additions to the Health Insurance Act and to the Medical Products Act. Technical precision is also carried out in the Law on People with Disabilities, without making changes to the substance. As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds proposed by 5 votes for the European Parliament and 2 votes for the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for amendment and supplement to the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, No 002-01-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 January 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u167	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Colleagues, you have a say in this. Please come in. Mr. Mikhailov? [[Replication by National Representative Georgi Mihailov.]] No statement has been made by the other parliamentary groups. Mr. Mikhailov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u168	Thank you, Madam President. I wanted to take advantage of the right that you always determine that you start with the largest parliamentary group and I was willing to have associate Professor Ivanov speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u169	No, that's under different circumstances. Now for the speeches there is no problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u170	But now that desire has suddenly faded.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u171	This is under art. 113. In the case of art. 113 is from the largest parliamentary group, here you can speak calmly.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u172	I'm very sorry that Mr. Ananiev is absent again. This has been happening very often lately, and it has not made a very positive impression on us. Here, of course, is Mrs. Nacheva, who introduced the Bill then. This bill concerns the backbone of drug policy in Bulgaria. And when we discussed it in the Commission, I took the liberty of sharing to its honourable Members that, at least on the basis of the comments of the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union, which are about 20 pages, that is, he has presented a factually parallel bill, this bill has so many elements of immatureness that it should be carefully discussed again, to be taken out of the Commission, so that these problems that exist at the moment in drug policy, and this is the philosophy of drug policy, its realization on the territory of the country, so that they can be resolved and presented to the honourable Chamber in order to be able to take the most optimal decisions for the nation. What is the current state of drug policy, honourable Members? First of all, this is the short reimbursement list, which is known to each of you who consumes medicines as its relatives. It is one of the shortest in the territory of the European Union. Secondly, it is difficult to access medical products and medical devices. You know, a large part of the settlements in Bulgaria, I do not want to quote the figure that it is stunning, there are no pharmacies on their territory at all. Next, a lack of any flexibility of drug policy, where constantly dropping out of registration medicinal products cannot be delivered to Bulgarian patients and they are forced to search outside the territory of the country. Lack of any differentiation in verticalization and horizontal line of pharmacies. And against that are proposed now, by this bill, several basic types of measures, all of which have been very duly commented, very seriously by the Bulgarian pharmaceutical union and it is evident that until the positions on the connectivity of persons who will trade wholesale and retail until the requirements for the opening of the so-called second and third address are set out, I do not want to go into details, these are very specific things, but also very serious for drug policy in Bulgaria, these proposals that are given in the Bill will in no way respond to the interest of citizens and will not improve medicine supply in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. All of this is described very carefully in 19 pages of the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union and I believe that the Commission was obliged to comply with these serious remarks, to withdraw the Bill, to be carefully discussed, consensually discussed, but we see that only a few weeks later it appears now in plenary with the agreement that between first and second reading all these things, you see, will be easily remade, and they are not easy, as it is very serious things. Next, very careful attention is paid to the problem of the difference between retailers and wholesalers and it is seen from the proposed bill that retailers are placed in a situation in which they have no interest in performing one of the most social functions of providing medicines to Bulgarian citizens, as they do not have conditions under the proposed bill for carrying out an overestimate which is given as the right of all other traders to realize. All these misconceptions proposed in the Draft Law required its careful rethinking and, so to speak, its adaptation to the so big problems of drug policy in the Republic of Bulgaria. That doesn't exist at this stage. I am convinced by my bitter experience that with the roller of the majority this bill will enter at first reading and will go to its second reading, but I am not entirely convinced, regardless of the efforts we will make most conscientiously, that in all the proposals that will be made by all the parliamentary groups in the interests of the Bulgarian citizens, it is possible within the established legal period between first and second reading, even the longest to be it, this will happen. In closing my speech, I would like to address the honourable importers with one question, which we are already repeating in every health bill and here was indeed noted by the President of the Commission for the so-called sharp objection. It is really sharp and really objecting when other laws change through one bill that have nothing to do with it, but some very significant parameters in these laws are also changing. And I will allow myself here to read to you what the rapporteur said in passing. This is art. 52, I'll quote it directly: "2." At the initiative of the mandatory insured person and upon express request to provide medical assistance with a medicinal product or device or diet food other than those provided by the medical establishment... This means different from the unaccepted pharmaco-therapeutic guides, i.e., honourable Members, I want you to think very carefully about what you will be voting between first and second readings and at second reading. Here we ensure that no innovative means are introduced from now on. Anyone who wants innovation, he picks his pocket and pays for it. This is a very serious problem, which should be carefully refined as a text, as this implies an extremely serious penalty for innovative means and their incorporation in the therapeutic strategy in Bulgaria, and should not thus be offered to the legislator in the case of the plenary. I don't want to continue with my remarks. There's a lot more to be said, of course. I do not want to talk about the way generic policy is promoted in the Republic of Bulgaria. This is to give in the hands of a pharmacist the right to the doctor's prescription, to do editing and to offer whatever he decided generic medicines, saying that almost only in the UK and in three countries this was so, it does not correspond to the truth at all. These are things that come out of a normal professional relationship between a doctor and a pharmacist. A prescription can't be commented on, not, but sanctioned by the pharmacist. This is unacceptable both ethically and legally. And next, and that way, I will finish the proposal in so-called emergencies, so as not to interrupt, you see, therapy the pharmacist can provide medicines without a prescription for which a prescription is also not based on any real professional basis. In general, there are many things that need to be reconsidered. That was our offer, too. Then both laws were introduced for medical institutions and for medicines in human medicine and we had serious remarks for the first one, for the second one we said that literally for this law, it has many elements, I allow myself to say it in the softest way, of immatureness for its introduction, and it concerns the backbone of drug policy in Bulgaria. While we are doing law-making this way, without seriously considering it, without the consensus of professional associations, which have a direct bearing on what is going to happen in a bill, and this is about drug policy, we will never achieve in healthcare the objectives that we have set ourselves. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u173	Thank you, Mr. Mihailov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u174	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Nacheva, ladies and gentlemen! I would have liked to speak a little later when I saw the speeches of colleagues from the other parliamentary groups, but today we have to debate at first reading the philosophy of the presented bill. What impresses us? First of all, it is necessary, as a tendency, to present documents, regulations which have the parameters of pre-legal acts, regulations, as bills and to enter into the relevant law. This will create many difficulties in the work of both the relevant health and health institutions and the health administration. For example, just now Mrs. Daritkova, Dr. Daritkova gave the example as a great success with the introduction of this famous fee for paying the pharmacies when presenting a prescription for a medicinal product, which is fully paid by the Health Insurance Fund 2 BGN. Should that be in the Law? Of course not. Tomorrow the conditions may require the value of this fee to change up or down, and then this can only happen through the parliamentary hall, which is a complete nonsense. A problem so small, less important to legislation, it is important for pharmacies, naturally, but for legislation is not important, it should be solved by regulation and not by law. The Verification. Of course there must be a verification regulation. We once again said that we are the biggest apologists of this process, who know what it serves and we put it in the Law and tomorrow it becomes the norm for Bulgarian retailers and wholesalers. [[Noise and lines.]] This can safely be decided in a regulation, the regulation can be introduced by a regulation and this can be changed, because here all the burden is questionable whether it should be borne by retailers and wholesalers, as well as by importers, holders of the import authorisation in our country. This issue is particularly important because in the end it will affect the possibility of multiplying the pharmacies network in small towns. There, this question of verification represents an obstacle to these pharmacies that we want to have because it requires an appropriate investment. Why do we need a national pharmacies card? Sounds very pompous! A national pharmacies card that will solve the problem. With what? Nothing! All these data in the national pharmacy map The National Centre for Public Health can present them to us for a period of two to three days. By analogy with the National Health Card, we oblige a contingent of administrators headed by the Minister of Health, headed by the regional governors to deal with something that is not their business. And the big question: how will the national pharmacy card help us improve the drug service of people, especially those people in small municipalities? I say: none at all! Not at all, but at all, because the map, as is the National Health Card, as will be the proposed national pharmacy card, does not provide for methods, methods of revealing pharmacies where they are needed and where they are needed. And one claim where they are more that they exceed the maximum size of pharmacies. A second and next pharmacy, a tool that is subject to analysis. Why? Because, fellow Members, in these small settlements, the turnover, which is adjusted by the maximum amount of medicines sold, is about BGN 5000, between 5 and 10,000. lv. The profit of the respective pharmacy is between 300 and 500 BGN. a month. Which normal businessman or pharmacist in this case is going to open up a pharmacy there? And on top of that, we say: but it can only work for two days. Well, when it works for two days, it won't be able to make the corresponding volume, the corresponding turnover to support itself, and we're assigning it to have a computer system to play a role in the verification, in the sale of medicines, which means it has to invest 20,000. lv. and gets between 300 and 500 leva. profit per month in which is the salary of the pharmacist or assistant pharmacist. Clearly, this is not the way this problem can be solved. We're talking about regulations. Dr. Daritkova, something very important! It's forbidden to return drugs to pharmacies. Well, are we talking about European practice, European regulations? Every product purchased in the European Union has rules by which it can be returned to where it is purchased. By our law, however, we prohibit the return of medicines. Yeah, that's very good for retailers, for pharmacies, because really how to take the medicine you sold, and the patient brings it back? But there are European rules and a European regulation. I think this will be disputed, simply does not comply with the rules on trade in the European Union. I would really like to join Professor Mihailov's proposal. There are many useful things in the Law that can be judged, but I think some of them can be reformated into legal documents as regulations and again discuss the proposed bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u175	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u176	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I take the floor to address three things with regard to our proposed bill. First of all, there are medical supplies. [[noise and lines]] No, I have not mistaken the Law to which the Law on Medical Devices does not apply. They are reflected in art. 5 of the Medical Devices Act, I quote: "These are medical devices which are an integral part of the medicinal products and are intended by the manufacturer for single use only in this form. " There is no legal vacuum for them, and I think that they can safely find their place in the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine. The second thing I would like to draw attention to is that our proposed bill introduces the National Pharmacy Card, which has been said about. So far, so good! However, honourable colleagues, pharmacies, under the Health Act, are health institutions. We already have on this proposal our bill two cards.. National Health Card under the Law on Medical Institutions and National Pharmacy Card under the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine. I think these two cards can safely be united into a national map that will find its place and be written in the Health Act. Thirdly, I would like to share with you seven are the administrative structures relevant to medicinal products in human medicine. I think the Drug Executive Agency can also take on some of the functions of some of them and reduce the administrative burden. That is why, between first and second readings, we from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria will submit some proposals.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u177	Thank you, dear Mrs. Naydenova. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u178	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am looking at the proposals Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine in Chapter 10a, where it is the retail of medicinal products and the National Pharmacy Card, as a late commitment to implement the Programme of the Government of GERB, which has three main accents to bring the pharmaceutical service closer to the people and to ensure, respectively, the diversity of medicinal products, in parallel to solving at least the 24-hour pharmacies service. What is proposed by the Council of Ministers is a late proposal at the end of the third year, going to the fourth year, for the National Pharmacy Card. Yeah, National Pharmacy Card's gonna be there. Exclusively in the details of the Law is offered Regional pharmacies card. And here the Council of Ministers as an importer of this bill seems to have exhausted this debate by the end of Borisov's third government with the creation of both maps. Because in the program itself, which you have written down, and the government has made a commitment, it says that incentives will be created for pharmaceutical care in those areas, which are in small towns and the 14 municipalities where there are no pharmacies. What's our concern here? Yes, the Law states that there will be a second and next address on a slightly lighter procedure. Perhaps this is a first step, which is not bad, but in parallel to this, the colleague was right, saying that these pharmacies, who will want to have a second and third address, whether they have the necessary resources, because in the Regional Map we restrict which pharmacies can make a second and third address. If, for example, Smolyan Municipality will want a pharmacy from Plovdiv to make a second and third address, the Regional Map restricts it, i.e. the Law requires a vision of the realities of the country as they are. And the worry, honourable Members, as you support the government's program from GERB, you are going to the fourth year in which you are probably aware because you live in the realities of Bulgaria that about two million Bulgarians are having difficulties with pharmaceutical care. For these two million Bulgarians the medicine is more expensive because they travel. It's not their fault the state's running from these regions, the state's gone. And it is only at the end that we admit: with the government's decision of December that there must be a National Card, which will be adopted by an act of the government and will have the status of administrative act, and then the................................................................................. All of these are the first steps at the end of a term, which gives us mistrust as to whether all of this will happen for these two million Bulgarian citizens. In parallel to this, there may also be a lack of multivariance from European and global practice. Finally, I will conclude with the fact that the Law runs away from a decision here and the Minister could not make such a proposal for 24-hour pharmacies at least in the district cities, and we should have ambition as members of the parliament for modern Bulgaria and for 24-hour pharmacies in the municipal centers. That is why the Law has some desire.. he recognizes many problems, but he does not give a solution. He says it could, I hope, but I don't think so! So I take it as steps for political decisions, but insufficiently good management decisions that will be useful for Bulgarian citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u179	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. Extend group time. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? I don't see any other speeches. Let's move on to the vote. [[Noise and lines.]] Is there a statement? Okay, we're making a statement. Mr. Ivanov. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We have also extended the time of the groups, so this speech will end. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u180	Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to express some considerations concerning the Law on Drugs in Human Medicine. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u181	Colleagues, we're not extending the hours.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u182	I believe that those present here make a pretty big contribution to building the Law on Drugs in Human Medicine. The first thing I would like to say to some of my fellow Members is that a bill tabled by the Council of Ministers cannot be withdrawn from the Committee on Health or from a political party. He can't be pulled back! This is for my colleague, the professor I respect, I just want to do this introspection. I have a lot of comments on this bill. One of the things that I personally don't like and condone is in a bill to try to put regulations in place. This one, first. Secondly, I would like to share some of my specific remarks, namely that in the verification system, which, in fact, needs to be validated, there is a lot of confusion and, accordingly, unpreparedness. The lack of readiness of organizations will also make it difficult for patients to provide timely and quality services. According to a study that I have made the effort to examine and read, after a survey of 600 pharmacies, who have said their arguments for what and how the verification law can not be applied, one of the main things is that new software must be introduced in the pharmacies, and therefore four legal acts that are extremely important, namely this is, firstly, the Regulation, Regulation No 4, Ordinance No 18 and electronic reporting to the Health Insurance Fund. In this poll, which is quite important to me and is actually a mirror of the development of the pharmacy network in the country, it is pointed out that half of the pharmacies cannot verify because 70% of them do not have spare power. Secondly, 15% of them have an Internet connection break over a period of more than one to three hours. I am prepared to actually present this very important poll, which gives a complete information about how our pharmacies are prepared to be introduced as a law the Law of verification. Something very important. I recall that according to data from the Bulgarian Drug Agency, there are no established sales of counterfeit medicines on an official channel. Large distributors of medicinal products perform their strictly replaced duties in good distribution practice and work directly with manufacturers, not through intermediaries, which to a large extent guarantees the authenticity of medicines on the Bulgarian market. I believe that the introduction of the measure will block the activities of the medium and small businesses in pharmacy, make it difficult to access medicines sold in pharmacies. In view of this, I believe that, in fact, at this stage, we are absolutely not ready. Another important issue, which I would like to draw attention to, is the verification and, more precisely, of the organisation established for verification. For this organisation, notice, the regulation provides that we have several organisations in the country, namely the proposed changes introduce legally a single organisation that will actually lead the verification that should be under the control of the state in the Ministry of Health. It is not foreseen to whom or how this organisation will be taken into account, which I believe is a major weakness. I will also take into account the subject of the Pharmacy National Card, which in itself is an extremely good idea, but we must take into account accordingly the possibilities for introducing this national card. This is a good idea and an opportunity for regulation, but the proposed texts are not working and they will, in my opinion, create huge administrative problems and burdens for all the people who perform and for patients and access to them. The mechanism of creating this map for me is not clear. Incorporation in a price regulation in the Law, which I pointed out at the outset that to incorporate regulatory documents in my opinion is wrong in a law. I have a lot more to say about this law, but I believe that between first and second readings could, together with the recommendations given by the Pharmaceutical Union, be built a working law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u183	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. We're finishing the procedure with lines and dots. We will end this debate with this procedure. Here you go, Mr. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u184	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Associate Professor Ivanov, to congratulate you on your speech. Indeed, in what you have put before us, you have said many things that are true and are not in favor of the bill. In no case are in his favor and this speaks against your first sentence, however, unfortunately. Rules are rules, but such an immature bill should not be proposed to the National Assembly. It's not right! You said a lot of things, and the only thing I can't agree with is that we discussed it with you then in the Commission, and with other colleagues, is the verification number. That somewhere the Internet was shutting down, that the power was shutting down, were technical issues. These are extremely important things.. should be imposed in Bulgaria. You say he can't now, but when can he? There's gotta be something wrong with it! Not to mention other bills. Otherwise, I can say that I agree with much of your remarks and this further reinforces our arguments that this bill was not ready to enter the plenary. Thank you, Madam President. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u185	Thank you, Mr. Mihailov. Second line? I can't see. A hole? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u186	Dear Professor Mikhailov, thank you for the line. First of all, I will say that the bill will most likely be with a maximum period of consideration, and I believe that those weaknesses that have been admitted could be removed. As far as verification is concerned, I don't like to talk to angno, so I gave a specific example of a survey made at 600 pharmacies. I believe that this is a sufficiently representative sample, which actually raises the problems that people have that actually work. I believe, and that is not only my opinion, so I say we should listen to the voice of the Pharmaceutical Union for the remarks they have submitted, and we should say about the verifications I have not accidentally emphasized that to date in Bulgaria there are no counterfeit medicines. That's not my opinion, that's the Agency's opinion. In fact, there is no evidence and there is no drug sold because, as I said, good practice is being observed here, namely distributors to take the medicines directly from the manufacturers, Professor Mihaylov. This, in fact, in one form or another, ensures that there are no false medicines. In addition, you are a well-informed person, I would like to say that from the countries that are first, and I can say that we are one of the pioneers, but this is now another subject that we actually want to implement verification. If memory serves, by last year there were four countries that signed for verification. Notice that countries such as France, Germany, large countries where, for example, IT coverage is already debatable whether it is better than what is in Bulgaria, but I want to tell you that these countries are not prepared for verification. There are other elements here that I wouldn't like to expose to the public. It is no coincidence that this organisation, which will be involved in verification, is not non-profit. You know what I'm talking about, so I'm gonna stop here. This is a very serious topic that I may be able to discuss outside the Chamber with you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-05.u187	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Guys, are there any more speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Colleagues, tomorrow at 9:00 we will vote on the bill at first reading. Communications of parliamentary control on 6 March 2020, Friday: 1. Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Mariana Nikolova will answer a question from the MPs Georgi Gokov, Dragomir Stoinev and Vesela Lecheva. 2. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov will answer a question from MP Pavel Shopov. 3. Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva will answer three questions from the MPs Violeta Jeleva and Nadia Klisurska-Zekova [[two questions]] ; and Teodora Halacheva. 4. The Minister of Justice Danail Kirilov will answer a question from the MPs Georgi Gokov and Alexander Simov. 5. The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov will answer a question from the National Representative Dora Yankova. 6. The Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will answer four questions from the MPs Evdokia Asenova; Ivo Hristov; and Stanislav Stanilov [[two questions]] . 7. The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva will answer two questions from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Daniel Yordanov; and Svetla Bachvarova. 8. The Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov will answer two questions from the MPs Kristian Vigenin; and Ivan Chenchev. 9. The Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev will answer five questions from the MPs Vesela Lecheva; Dora Yankova; Teodora Halacheva; Irena Anastasova; and Ivan Chenchev, Georgi Gokov and Alexander Paunov. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova to two questions written by the MPs Georgi Gokov, Filip Popov, Anastas Popdimitrov, Vasil Antonov, Vesela Lecheva, Ilian Timchev, Krum Zarkov and Stoyan Mirchev; and Kristina Sidorova; - Minister of Culture Boyl Banov to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Desislava Taneva to a question written by the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to nine questions with written answer from the MPs Georgi Gokov [[Five questions]] ; Desislav Taskov and Tasco Ermenkov; Georgi Gokov and Dragomir Stoinev; Ilian Timchev and Desislav Taskov; and Philip Popov and Tsvetan Topchiev; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov to a question from the National Representative Kristian Vigenin and to a question written by the MPs Kristina Sidorova and Georgi Stoilov; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev to a question written by the National Representative Irena Anastasova; - Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov to a question from the MPs Ivan Valentinov and Georgi Svilenski; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question with a written answer from the MP Christian Vigenin. For lack of respectable reasons of the MP Krastina Taskova, her question is postponed to the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Mariana Nikolova. In the absence of the country in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev will not participate. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting due to the use of annual leave. This concludes today's work of the National Assembly. Tomorrow a regular plenary session at 6 March 2020 at 9.00
