ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u1	Good afternoon, fellow Members. For many years! [[PHONE RINGING]] There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Dear colleagues, according to art. 47 of our Rules I suggest we hear the hymns of the Republic of Bulgaria and of the European Union. Please, let's be straight. [[Everyone's up. The anthems of the Republic of Bulgaria and of the European Union sound.]] Thank you. Dear colleagues, today is the first day of the 44th National Assembly for 2020. Let us be congratulated! Let us wish for health and strength in order to successfully carry out our state mission and serve the Republic of Bulgaria with dignity, to work so as to meet the expectations of Bulgarian citizens! I believe that during the upcoming session and the year each of us will make efforts to achieve more understanding, productive debates and convergence of positions on the key issues for our country. Have a good session, guys! I present the National Assembly's Work Programme for 15 January 2020. Today is the first Wednesday of the month, there are no proposals under art. 53, para. 8 of the parliamentary groups: "1." Draft decision on personal changes in the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria on 14 January 2020. 2. Second vote on the Oil Rose Bill. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 16 April 2019, adopted on the first vote on 25 April 2019. 3. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the administrative regulation of economic activities related to oil and petroleum products. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 6 December 2019, item 1 for Thursday 16 January 2020 This item was added to the Conference of Presidents on a proposal from the Group of the United Patriarchs. "4." First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Currency Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 2 December 2019, item 2 for Thursday 16 January 2020. 5. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Offering of Securities. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 29 November 2019, item 3rd for Thursday 16 January 2020. 6. Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission for 2018 Importer "The Communications Regulation Commission' on 24 June 2019, item four for Thursday 16 January 2020 7. Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission for 2018 "Analyse on the postal services market." Importer supposed to the Communications Regulation Commission on 26 June 2019, item 5th for Thursday 16 January 2020. 8. Report on the implementation of the Law on Export Control of Defence Products and Dual-Use Products in 2018 by the Interdepartmental Council on Defence Industry and Security of Supply to the Council of Ministers. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 5 September 2019, item 1 for Friday 17 January 2020. 9. Parliamentary control. Please vote on the draft programme so presented. They voted 195 MPs: 136 against 4, abstention 55. The motion is accepted. Honourable Members, in relation to the statements of the parliamentary groups, I propose a direct transmission on BNT 2 and BNR. Please, voting mode. Vote 202 MPs: 198, no objection, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Please turn on the cameras. First on behalf of the political party GERB parliamentary group, Mrs Daritkova. You're welcome to make your statement within 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! And during this session the parliamentary group of GERB will continue to support the government and work to implement the program of the ruling majority. This position is not self-target, it is an expression of our commitment to continue to be a factor of stability in Bulgarian policy and generator for development of Bulgaria. We have a year ahead of us where no elections will be held. In the past 2019, in the framework of two choices, Bulgarian citizens have clearly shown that they want change and development, but not through radicalism and revolution, but through work and integrity. Therefore, this year there will be no early elections and the next will be next year. This political fact enables us to put aside the vicious opposition beyond the tensions of election campaigns. In 2020, together we could reach political agreement on long-term priorities for Bulgarian society and make sure that their implementation does not depend on the mandate of one or another government. This will ensure continuity, which will benefit most of all the Bulgarian citizens who rely on their skills, efforts and integrity to cope with the challenges of life. [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u3	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u4	Although the upcoming year will not be the year of elections, the outlines of domestic and international tensions emerge in its early days. In order to meet the challenges Bulgaria will face, we must show the will for unity and dialogue between the various political forces, whether they are in government or in opposition. For us as managers, the creation of such an atmosphere of work is an extremely important condition so that we can find a much more accurate balance of interests in Bulgarian society. During this parliamentary session, we will continue to validate education as a major and long-term priority of governance and will endeavour to recognise it as such by all political forces. If we succeed in these efforts, in the medium and long term Bulgaria will have the opportunity for a much faster and more dynamic development, and Bulgarian children will have much more prospects. We are aware that the level of education depends on the economy, health and justice system, and last but not least the value system of every society. We therefore stress once again that this main priority must be recognised by both all political forces and Bulgarian citizens. In addition to education, we will also work to reach agreement on the construction of modern water and environmental infrastructure. In recent years thanks to the European funds in Bulgaria, a lot has been done in this direction. A number of municipalities have replaced their water infrastructure and, in a spirit of agreement, Parliament has tightened a number of environmental regimes in terms of air. However, we still have a number of challenges in the area, because it is a long process. Policies regarding the most important natural resources, such as air and water, cannot be a single act of one or another management. These policies do not require campaigning, but constant efforts, continuity and balance between the needs of man and the possibilities of nature. I hope that the water crisis in Pernik will become an opportunity for a much more rapid development in this direction and within the framework of our powers as MPs we will help to overcome the challenges associated with this topic. Dear colleagues, at the beginning of this session, the parliamentary group of GERB will take action related to amendments to the Election Code and the Law on Political Parties. We believe that they should happen even in the first half of the year so that their reception can be as far away from the parliamentary elections in the spring of 2021. This positioning over time is important to show that the changes have neither a conjuncture nor an election character. In this way, we will also allow the electoral administration to be well prepared for the next elections. We proceed to these changes with full agreement that both regulations are fundamental to the democratic process in Bulgaria. We are aware that low confidence in the electoral process and in parties, as the main subjects of democracy, is destroying democracy itself and hindering its effective functioning. We hope that all political forces will be responsible for these issues. We are convinced that the debate that is to come must take place beyond speculation and mutual accusations, and the decisions that we will make must be built on the foundations of public and political agreement. The conduct of elections and the financing of political parties are fundamental issues for every democratic political system. GERB is committed to giving maximum guarantees that every voice of a Bulgarian citizen is important for the development of the democratic process in the country. Because trust in the electoral process also depends on trust in the institutions that are structured and function in the direction produced by the election of the people. Parliament, therefore, as the most direct expression of the democratic will of citizens, is the place where these problems should be solved not with the thought of the current state of every political power and its positioning in the next election campaign, but with the thought of the future and the consequence of the decisions taken. I hope that all together we will also have the will to self-inflicted heavy enough control in terms of spending the money from state subsidies. Only then will we be able to guarantee to the Bulgarian taxpayers that their money is not wasted on the personal needs of political activists, but is invested in the development of Bulgarian democracy through the construction of party structures and the creation of a new generation of Bulgarian politicians. The forthcoming debates on these topics will show how much we are able to show democratic instinct and reach agreement in this direction. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you good work both during this session and throughout 2020. Let this year bring us more humility and less conflict, because beyond the political differences we have, we are all here together and separately to represent the entire Bulgarian people. Good luck, and God save Bulgaria! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u5	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. Next is the statement of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. Mrs. Ninova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u6	Dear Madam President, dear Members of the National Assembly, dear Bulgarian citizens! May the new year be peaceful and benevolent for Bulgaria. To you, colleagues, we wish health and meaningful decisions with good results for our country and our people! We are also starting this session in a government crisis with another ninth change of minister in the Cabinet. Nearly half a million Bulgarians are in a mode of water, basic human good and right. 100-thousand city faces the choice of work and bread or water. In dozens of other cities for years, people have not known what constantly flowing clean water is. Three times in 10 years, water prices rose. The people paid hundreds of millions for water and dirty water. Bulgaria has been turned into a junkyard of the world. The international and Bulgarian mafia earn a lot of deadly money at the expense of the health of the Bulgarian people in front of the eyes, or perhaps, judging by the recent actions of the prosecution, in complicity with the Bulgarian authorities. Senior civil servants supposed the executive director of the Health Insurance Fund to talk about an organised system for draining the Health Insurance Fund. Directly named are the guilty minister and deputy minister make lobbying legislation for the benefit of large private interests. The Tol system has been delayed again and is about to fail. The swine fever has returned and tens of thousands of new animals have been killed. A whole sector of livestock is being destroyed. Naturally, this led to an incredible rise in the price of meat.. more than 50%, and the sausages, according to the industry. They warn us that the price of bread will grow. The cost of water is growing. In many municipalities, local taxes and fees are increased and nearly 2 million Bulgarians continue to live with money below the poverty line. These are the facts, and in this situation we are opening the new session. Why have we come this far? Because for 10 years in the management of GERB were adopted laws in the interest of the profit of few against that of the majority. Corruption is already at stake in the legislation. We've come this far because of lack of carelessness, incompetence, and as you can see from the prosecution's actions, and the misdemeanors of the government. In 10 years, you have turned politics into trade, but cynicism is that you pay your own peace with people's money. In every riot, the Prime Minister pays his fee with their hard-earned money, but not for the development and growth of the country, not for the well-being of the people, but for self-sustaining power. After 10 years, however, this model is beginning to run out and not work. The systems are starting to go off one by one. You destroyed the blood system of statehood, the institutions that are not functioning. You put the country out of crisis, you put out fires that you're setting yourself, but running a country is not fire-fighting, it requires a plan, competent people, work and control. You don't have any of this. So instead of stability and development that you promised, there is chaos and stagnation. And this can't go on like this! Dear Bulgarian citizens, do not believe in lies and manipulations that the Bulgarian Socialist Party enters into agreements, backstage, any talks about strengthening this government. I want to be very clear: we are working to bring down this office and this government! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] It is already harmful to Bulgaria, apart from incompetence and incompetence. There was no alternative?! There's always an alternative. On all the topics I have addressed, we at BSP have been alarming for years, signaling ministries, the Ministry of Interior, the Prosecutor's Office on all the issues I raised. We offer different solutions: another health model in which hospitals are not commercial companies; another social model that reduces inequalities; another educational model that guarantees staff for the economy and work here in Bulgaria of graduates; another model of the anti-corruption system in which the government does not choose the examiners. A few moments ago, colleagues from GERB also said they wanted consensus on the strategically important issues for Bulgaria. Dear Bulgarians, this is a slogan when they are cornered. During all these years, we proposed consensus on key issues for Bulgaria - demography, health care, education and economics. All our proposals have been rejected without arguments, and so the call for consensus is used in a crisis, but it is not sincere and our hand on these issues has never been accepted. That is why we believe that the change for Bulgaria and the life of the Bulgarian people is going through a change of governance. I appeal to the other parliamentary parties that are considered opposition, to the other extraparliamentary parties that want change, to civil associations: honourable Members, each of us is running on his track and is strong in his topic, but he is weak because he is alone. We all have ideas for change. All of us have capable and decent people. Let us lean on them, rely on the vital forces of the Bulgarian people, because we have a unified idea: to change this government and change Bulgaria and the lives of Bulgarian citizens. It is possible to do so, but not just take their positions as ministers and prime ministers, but for another purpose to ensure the growth, stability and well-being of the Bulgarian people. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u7	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova! Next is the statement of the parliamentary group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Here you go, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! At the beginning of the new session of the 44th National Assembly, at the beginning of the new year and the new decade of the 21st century on behalf of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and on my behalf I wish health, Berkeett and water in every home! [[Laughter and excitement.]] Let 2021 be peaceful and successful! Let Bulgaria within the European Union find the right path for prosperity of all Bulgarian citizens, create and guarantee real European conditions for life and development! The beginning of the year is also a time for reckoning and evaluation, for looking at the new horizons. There's no warning time today. It is unnecessary to point out the problems facing the government, which do not simply stop the development of our country, but they are turning us back. All issues important to Bulgarian citizens must find a solution. Serious and severe are the problems that stand before us to solve. And let us make it clear: the problems must be resolved in a very short time before the parliamentary crisis has taken place. The severe crises at the beginning of this political season are serious enough and eloquent enough for no one to have the illusion that things can go on the same way. Mostly the two crises in the water sector and in healthcare are expected because these sectors are unreformed. These bombs are pre-set because of the refusal of reforms and because of the model of power, without clear vision, without clear priorities, without a clear programme with clear priorities. For the last 10 years, power has been exercised as a solution to specific problems of fire on the principle of trial-mistake, which legitimately leads to a crisis, and thus a crisis in crisis. In the absence of vision and coordination, without a clearly defined programme, without clear priorities, this is the outcome. The current crises are the epitome of 10-year chaotic governance. For ten years, power has gone by momentum and seen power as individuals, not as systems and models of governance. The lack of reforms, the lack of clear vision cannot be compensated by personal changes in the government. Bulgaria needs a program for accelerated catching up economic development. Bulgaria's strategic priority is the accelerated catch-up development compared to the European Union's average standard. This is the only way out of the government based on a value majority with a common vision and a program for accelerated catch-up development of the country. The policy of the DPS during this political season will again be consistent. We will continue to work on consensus on the vision of the country's accelerated and catch-up development, adherence to European values and following European models. And this means not populism and extremism, but democracy and tolerance, in order to ensure peace and democracy in order to reaffirm the European path of development in order to create conditions for economic growth, for the well-being of all Bulgarian citizens and for the whole society. To remind us of our priorities for a clean, healthy living environment. We are for clean food, fresh air, clean water, clean energy. What clean water, though, can we talk about when there is no water at all? What health conditions can we talk about when there are so many health problems? The continuation of money pouring into the bottomless safe called the Health Insurance Fund, without the necessary reforms minimizes the future of health services and takes away the solving of problems more and more. It is high time to say clearly that GERB has nothing more to justify! For 10 years they have been in power and today's problems are serious and serious, to the whole society are due only to GERB. Thirty years after the beginning of the transition, the assessment of a retreat from democracy is required and thanks again to GERB. Populism, extremism, hatred and xenophobia officially rule and rule in Bulgaria thanks to GERB. Much can be said by pointing out specific problems, but the situation is severe enough and worrying enough. The situation today requires not fairy tales, but actions that are urgent, decisive actions, responsible actions. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We of the DPS call for a common political will to turn 2020 into a year of consensus on the political and economic priorities of the Republic of Bulgaria to determine the path of democratic development of the country. Bulgarian society expects economic growth, guaranteed social services and European quality of life. Europe needs a strong prosperous Bulgaria. Let us all be at the height of our responsibilities. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS and from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. Next is the statement of the parliamentary group "United Patriarchs." Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u10	Madam President, honourable Members! Allow me at this first meeting for the year on behalf of the group of the United Patriarchs to congratulate you on the new year, to wish you health, good prospects and success of all Bulgarians, to wish wisdom to guide the affairs of the government, including those present! The water crisis in Pernik is clearly the symbol under which this first meeting will pass. It allows everyone to show concern and everyone to expose the theme of clean water, clean air and so on. Water is an important topic, air is also an important topic. There are other important topics like this. The most important topic, however, is: are we a society, are we a united nation? Or social destruction, deliberate mudsling and debasement of institutions are already giving their poisonous fruit and making us a congregation of hateful people!? Everyone's got their eye on Pernik. Recently, the people have been targeted as a general culprit, and the truth is that the culprits are dozens and their guilt has been scattered in many years, during which no action has been taken, the technical infrastructure is allowed to be depreciated until it starts producing five times more losses than usefully supplied water. No one was paying attention to the signals to the disaster. That is why everyone has guilt and those who are opposition today and those who are ruling. The same happens in the social sphere. Not a day goes by without a brazen murder or any other crime on the marginals. We pretend that we don't notice, and the policy of promiscuous payment and welfare creates a second generation of sociopathic people, for whom the law means nothing, foreign property means nothing, foreign life means nothing, the sense of impunity is raised by the cradle. Today is the case in Galice, yesterday it was in Sotiya, Ruse, Vojvodino and so on and so forth. Thanks to the participation in the management of the United Patriarchs, we have first timid steps in the right direction. We have tied social benefits to a requirement for education, work and socialization. We assumed that there could be no socially weak living in palaces driving limos or binging for days at the expense of the peace of their neighbors. But that's not enough. We need a systematic approach, a state policy, not chaotic actions, because the crisis in this sector means just a civil war. Not hunger, not thirst, but war of ghettos against order, law and society. Therefore, at the beginning of this plenary session, we strongly state that an absolute priority for us will be the topics related to the socialization of marginalized gypsy communities. That's why we need a new concept. We wait for this concept and demand it from the Council of Ministers. Our main weapon in this direction should be education, increasing the scope of 5- and 6-year-old children. We demand compulsory pre-school education from 4 years of age and payment for the fees for kindergartens from the state budget. We will work for more patriotism in the educational process, for restoring the subject of Rodinition and completing the overall review of the learning content and clearing it of those of the anti-Bulgarian or gender ideology. The introduction of military training into schools also becomes our priority. Again, in this direction, we will take the first steps for legislative regulation and financial provision of voluntary military service in order to strengthen the home army. Our main priority remains the fight against domestic crime. We will propose the establishment of voluntary public order squads, as well as limited functions of the municipality in this area. We will also want to initiate changes to the Penal Code and to the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments, which will lead to the elimination of the sense of impunity. We have already proposed the regulatory regulation of the penalty for the benefit of society and to apply alternative to the penalty for persons who are not able to pay the fines imposed on them. We expect this law to be passed at second reading. We want the adoption of a new criminal policy and the adoption of a new Penal Code, changing the definition of a minor case with a view to countering conventional crime, extending the scope of the inevitable defence and criminalisation of the preaching of radical Islam, also our bills, which were adopted at first reading, but are still aged in the Legal Commission. We want a targeted policy for maintaining Bulgarian identity, language and culture in traditional and new Bulgarian communities abroad, including funding programmes for Bulgarian organizations and media abroad, under the Bulgarians living outside the Republic of Bulgaria Act. Legally, we want to regulate the map of Bulgaria, which gives us the right to stay, work and training in the country of Bulgarians from the traditional diaspora, for which we have a bill submitted. Not the import of immigrants, but the return of the Bulgarians to the country is our legacy goal and it will help the Bulgarian economy. Last but not least, we insist on continuing the fight against the outrage of monopolies and banks. We were the initiators of many changes in the GPC, which protect the ordinary Bulgarian from this and we will continue in the same direction. We set a new goal in this calendar year for the National Assembly to adopt the law on civil insolvency, to remove the institute of eternal debtor, the eternal slave of banks and loan sharks. Incomes continue to be our top priority. It is thanks to the participation of the United Patriarchs in this management that the income has become a topic and it gives its results because the incomes of the Bulgarians have started to grow with the greatest growth during this management. It is not only pensions, of course, we are also talking about salaries, we are talking about other payments. We have prepared a law for elderly people to guarantee minimum support for each pensioner, each one of those people who have dedicated their lives to conscious work, and now receive the miserable 250 leva. With these tasks we enter the new political season. We do not intend to leave the government because it is an objective for us or we are especially satisfied with our partners, but because if we go out, the DPS will enter. We're aware of that. The country's gypsy, corruption schemes will be brought to a new, higher level, and we will not allow that. We are here to protect the national interest and once again we say our motto, which we entered this parliament and which leads us: [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov. And the last statement is from the parliamentary group of the party.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u12	Madam President, honourable Members! On behalf of the party parliamentary group, Volya, I congratulate you on your new 2020 year. The beginning of the new decade of the 21st century. I wish you good health to you and your families and great success! Wise people have said: "Where there is will, there is a way. " - Let the will become the business card of this parliament. We need will for everything and for each of us as MPs in order to make those laws that will significantly improve the lives of every Bulgarian citizen. Will is needed by young people to choose to stay in Bulgaria. Will is also needed by those of our countrymen who would prefer to leave the country and seek their luck somewhere in the world. It is the will that motivates Bulgarian doctors to continue to save lives and to donate health despite the poorly working system. Will have our teachers who do their duty to the generations despite their miserable wages. The Bulgarian pensioners also survive with will. Will have young families who do everything they can to raise their children here. Luckily, the 44th National Assembly also has its will. We MPs from the group who bear this sign name and during this session will continue to defend the interest of every Bulgarian citizen and to be irreconcilable to trying to pass poor and lobbying laws. Because we've always had the will to do it. We've proven it more than once, especially with regard to the fight with the cartels. The three years since the beginning of this National Assembly have passed inconspicuously. It's starting the finish line. We believe that this Parliament has every chance of completing its full mandate. But let's do it with dignity and results that we can all be proud of. That is why our call to you is to think about people first during this session and not about your election scenarios and interests. There is time for elections after a whole year, but there is not enough time to fulfill all the promises to voters. By now, many of them should have already been a fact, not a last-minute campaign PR move. Or the worse option of not running at all. As our leader Veselin Mareshki has repeatedly stressed, one of the key roles of Volya in this Parliament is to remind you of the promises made, especially to parties from the ruling coalition, because they quickly forgot them. You know, we've already had cases and we've put in bills with foreign election promises, just to get some parties to think about them and to fulfill them. We're going to keep doing this because we have people's expectations in the first place. Our people have been lied to and disappointed long enough. The last thing we at WALK would want is for this Parliament to end its life in a glorious way, as has already happened in other mandates. Pragmatism, patriotism and competence This is the call of the Volya parliamentary group to you for the new year. Let 2020 be a very successful year for the entire Bulgarian people! I will also add one more thing to make her happy for the Bulgarians, and their happiness depends much on the quality of our work in this Chamber. Let us work with this consciousness and understanding that we are sent here to serve our people alone and only. Therefore, we now need not only will, but also courage, and independence, we hope that you will manifest them. WALK will continue to be the constructive opposition in this Parliament, we will support all ideas that lead to an increase in people's well-being, and we will illuminate those who serve the behind-the-scenes. This is how we understand true parliamentaryism. It is not shouting, demonstrations, and idle talk, but mind and deeds! Happy New Year! Good luck to you all during the new session! God save Bulgaria and the Bulgarian people! [[Applause from the will.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u13	Thank you, dear Mrs. Georgieva. These were the speeches on behalf of the parliamentary groups. Bills and draft decisions for the period 18 December 2019. "14 January 2020': A bill to supplement the Penal Code. Importers are Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It's been assigned to the Health Committee. A bill to amend the Penal Code. The importer is Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It's been assigned to the Health Committee. Report on the activities of the Commission on the disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army for the period 20 July 2019. 20 December 2019 Importer is the Commission for the Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. It has been assigned to the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Political Parties. The importer is Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance. Draft Law on the ratification of the Pension Insurance Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan, signed on 6 November 2019 in Baku. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Foreign Policy. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Islamic Republic of Pakistan on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion. Importer of the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism and the Committee on Foreign Policy. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Regional Development. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government and to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, the Committee on Environment and Water. A bill for the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It has been allocated to the Committee on Education and Science as the leader of the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Medical Institutions. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Health and the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, to the Committee on the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and the Fight against the Grey Economy and Smuggling, to the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Draft amending and supplementing the Road Transport Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, the Committee on Education and Science, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism and the Committee on Budget and Finance. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Health is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Draft Law amending and supplementing the National Security Service Act. The importer is Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs. The Committee for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Enterprises of the Social and Solidar Economy. Aleksandar Siddy and Kalin Popovski are importing. It is allocated to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy as the lead, and to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and the Fight against the Grey Economy and Smuggling. Draft decision on personal changes to the Council of Ministers. Importer is the Council of Ministers. Messages: 1. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that for the period from 18 January 2020 to 4 February 2020, a rotational training will be held at the US Joint Force Training Centre in Hohenfels, Germany. The preparation is carried out in the implementation of the Plan for joint Bulgarian-American training and training in the country and abroad in 2020, and is not related to the conduct of military operations, preparatory actions to conduct upcoming or alleged military operations, as well as to the carrying out of activities to prevent military activities conducted by other (other state or organisation) armed forces. 2. In the performance of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces, by its own orders, has authorised: 2.1. The passage through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria and the residence on the territory of the country of non-military character of aircraft Il-76 with its crew of the Ukrainian Air Force to carry out cargo charter flights for the purpose of transporting special production. The authorisation shall be valid from 20 December 2019 until 26 December 2019 inclusive; 2.2. Crossing the territorial sea, non-military stay in domestic waters and visiting the port of Varna for the period 25 to 27 January 2020 including the Second Permanent NATO Armistice Group, which includes vessels from the Air Force of Romania, Bulgaria and Turkey. The visit of the vessels shall be of a non-military nature; 2.3. The passage through the airspace and the residence on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of the non-military nature of an Il-76 aircraft with its crew of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine to transport an expert team on the Ukraine route, and back to investigate the crash of the Ukrainian passenger plane in Iran. The authorisation shall be valid for the period from 8 to 11 January 2020; 2.4. The passage through the airspace and the residence on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of the non-military nature of aircraft Il-76 with its crew of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine in order to transport an expert team along the route Tehran The authorisation shall be valid for the period from 10 to 17 January 2020. 2.5. The passage through the airspace and the residence of the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of a non-military nature aircraft Il-76 with its crew from the Air Force of the Republic of Azerbaijan to transport military production from the Kingdom of Spain to the Republic of Azerbaijan. The authorisation shall be valid for the period from 23 to 27 January 2020. 3. In the performance of art. 65, para. 1 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, by its order, has authorised the dispatch of military personnel from the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria to the territory of the United States of America with equipment and equipment for participation in a joint coalition exercise for the time from 24 January to 15 February 2020. In accordance with the provisions of the law, the relevant competent state authorities have been notified. The notifications were received from 20 December 2019 to 14 January 2020, with input numbers 903-09-86, 903-09-87, 903-09-88, 003-09-1, 003-09-3, 003-09-4 and 003-09-5 and submitted to the Defence Committee. 4. On 20 December 2019 the National Centre for Parliamentary Studies received a report on a comparative study of the legislative activity of the 44th National Assembly for the period 19 April 2017. In accordance with Article 5 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011, the Annex to Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 shall be amended accordingly. 17 of the Financial Rules on the Budget of the National Assembly, Annex to the Rules of Organisation and Procedure of the National Assembly. The report and its annexes are published on the website of the National Centre for Parliamentary Studies. 5. The National Assembly received a Report of the Chairman of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund on the performance of its functions under the Bankruptcy Act for the period from 22 November 2019 to 21 December 2019 by Protocol No 47 of a meeting of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund, held on 27 December 2019 at which the Report was reviewed and discussed. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report and the Protocol were sent to the Budget and Finance Committee. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. 6. On 9 January 2020, the National Assembly was provided with a draft and adopted by the Economic and Social Council on the topic: "Current Economy................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the material was provided to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, the Committee on Environment and Water and the Committee on Agriculture and Food and is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. 7. The National Statistical Institute has received information about: Indexes of producer prices on the domestic and international market in industry November 2019; Business Conjuncture December 2019, also includes indicators for the development of the economy in the Republic of Bulgaria as of 31 December 2019; Indexes of turnover in the Section of Retail Trade without trade in cars and motorcycles in November 2019; Indexes of industrial production in November 2019; Indexes of construction production in November 2019. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Moving on to the first item of today's agenda: PROJECT OF THE PERSONAL CHANGE DECISION IN THE MINISTERAL COUNCIL OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. Importer is the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u14	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u15	Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u16	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers and Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I propose that the debates on the first point, namely the Project of a Decision on Personal Changes in the Council of Ministers, be broadcast on the main channel of the Bulgarian National Television, as well as on the Bulgarian National Radio.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Chenchev. Please vote on Mr. Chenchev's procedure. Vote 179 MPs: 152 against 7, abstention 20. The motion is accepted. Please turn on the cameras. To present the draft decision within 10 minutes I give the floor to the Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Tomislav Donchev. Here you go, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable Members! Minister of Environment and Water Mr. Neno Dimov resigned to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Boyko Borisov and asked to be released as a member of the government. In relation to the resigned and on the grounds of art. 84, p. 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and on behalf of the Prime Minister I present to your attention a proposal to the National Assembly for the release of the Minister of Environment and Water Mr. Neno Dimov and for the election of Mr. Emil Simeonov as Minister of Environment and Water. Mr. Emil Dimitrov Simeonov was born on 20 February 1962 in the town of Pernik. In 1999 he graduated from the University of National and World Economy. In 2007 he obtained a Master's degree in Law from the Southwestern University of Blagoevgrad. Between 1992 and 1997 he worked at the Ministry of Finance as a reviewer. Since 2001 he has been Director of the Customs Agency. During the period 2003 - 2012 he worked as a financial controller and Deputy Director of Finance, Legal and Administrative Assistance in the Structures of the Ministry of Culture, as well as as as legal advisor in the structures of the Notary Chamber. In 2013 he served as Chief Secretary of the District Administration of Pleven. In 2014, he was elected MP at the Forty-third National Assembly, during which he was Vice-President of the Committee on Budget and Finance and a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs. In the Forty-fourth National Assembly is a member and chairman of the Commission for Monitoring Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u20	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers and Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Parliamentary Group of the Volya Party will leave the plenary and will not take part in the vote for a new Minister of Environment and Water. [[Radio.]] What are our arguments for this position? First of all, the scheme of separation of the ministries of ours and of yours shows that it is wicked and messed up. By that logic, if you have a good shot of the Ministry of Interior, for example, and your quota is for education, what, you're gonna hire him there just because you got it?! Such a system will not only work better, but we will witness even greater failures. We at WALK are against the principle of seeking a position of a person of ours, whether he is capable or not, rather than putting the most suitable people in the high public positions. As you know, the post does not make the person, but the opposite. Unfortunately, this truth is confirmed not by success, but by failure. IMRO colleagues, your best specialist in the ecoresort is in custody. That says a lot about your selection of footage. It is not normal for one of their ministers to be investigated for incompetent actions and for the IMRO to offer us another for the position with vague expertise in this portfolio just because the quota is theirs. Because of everything I have pointed out, we will not participate in these staged scenarios that humiliate the Bulgarian Parliament as a senior state institution. It is clear to everyone that both to the left and to the right and to the center... all of you here are responsible for the failure of the Ministry of Environment and Water. Our exit is a sign that the will is distinguished from this wicked system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? You have the floor. Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the House! The parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria is not going to support the proposed application, but we can only thank you for it, for the way it was done, and for the reasons by which the decision was made, because in an incredibly convincing way you have demonstrated all the bankruptcy of this government and all your inability to solve the problems of the people and the state. First, your Coalition Council has gathered for the first time in a long time. But what did we find out from him? That he was unpleasant. But why? Because the serious problems in the country were discussed, in particular the situation with access to water, the imports of garbage from the Italian Mafia and the clean air in the context of Neno Dimov's detention and resignation?! No. Perhaps strategies and policies have been discussed to address the crisis, perhaps an urgent plan for Pernik and comprehensive guidelines for solving the problems in the sector?! Not either. These things are obviously not so unpleasant. You have dealt with each other and with one not entirely devoid of a legitimate question: why is Neno Dimov in custody, while others, such as the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, the former governor of Pernik and some others, are also warm, but at home? Although this issue, you know, cannot be an element of party discussions and you know exactly who it should be addressed to. At this Coalition Council, you have decided to run for Minister of Environment and Water. You must have discussed in the context of the crisis and who knows the sector best?! Apparently not. Who is able to fully understand the complexity of the post?! Apparently not. Finally, someone who understands European policy and can adequately defend the Bulgarian interest in the changes that await both the new initiatives of the European Union and the Multiannual Financial Framework?! Not again. Perhaps with the help of experts these days you have developed some guidelines and sought someone to fulfill them?! Not at all. The main logic of your searches was to find someone who would ensure the preservation of the balance sheets in power and complete the mandate, no matter what the cost of this nudge was up to 2021 for citizens and for the state. And what a brilliant idea! You send a man whose task will be to revise and check the system, because there is no other argument in support of the particular application, so hopefully someone buys this idea. And what incredible luck! He was born in Pernik. And perhaps the birthplace is not just luck, but a first criterion for this proposal, because children also know that the checks on the system make them other institutions. Everything seems so surreal that inevitably the most asked question in Bulgarian politics arises in the mind, but I will ask it another way so that no unnecessary analogies are made: in fact whose application is Emil Dimitrov? Finally, in order to put the final touches on this modernist political work that you have created, the first statements of the candidate minister, who admits that he does not know the sector; admits that he does not know Pernik; admits that he does not want to be the minister. But his main task, notice, is to preserve this power until the end of the term, and in the name of this he is ready to pay a high price. Congratulations, ladies and gentlemen! With such a comprehensive and noble program, no minister has advocated until now. It remains to be felt that even a member, although known for his political flexibility in the years, has been made a proposal to which he cannot refuse. We know who makes such proposals. But on the other hand, we have to acknowledge his honesty, because through it it has been confirmed everything we have said so far, that this is an idealess government that has no plan for the development of the country; that this is a management that works on a piece; that it is was wasting money to clog holes and silence the discontent; it is stuck in deals and there is no sector today that is in better condition than at the beginning of the mandate. And his main task is simply to finish his term of office by 2021. At the same time, in the midst of the crisis, in the unprecedented fact that for the first time in the latest story in the arrest lies a functioning minister of yours and that the new appointment depends on the future of dozens of cities and villages and hundreds of thousands of Bulgarians, Prime Minister Boyko Borisov fled the water in Egypt! There is also water in Egypt, but there has never been a drain there. There, in the desert, they build cities here our cities become a desert. Forgive the comparison, but recently a work of Italian artist Maurizio Catelan has become known, which is a banana taped to the wall. It's called Comic. So you created the same masterpiece, but in politics. In a manner of speaking, you put a banana on the wall and now you must expect understanding and applause from the people. Well, there'll be no applause. There can only be anger and it grows with every action you take... I do not know if you feel it. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, reject this application. Some things have a price that should not be paid for Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u23	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Are there lines? I can't see. We continue with the speeches. Mr. Chakarov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u24	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! The Movement for Rights and Freedoms is not going to support the choice of the proposed new Minister for Environment and Water, firstly, because we are an opposition political force and, secondly, we have our principled arguments. This is the ninth consecutive minister shift in this cabinet, that is, more than half. Ministers are changing, but there must also be a change of policies, there must be a vision for reforms. We didn't hear that argument. As far as the new minister is concerned, what I would like to say is that he does not have the right to take charge of 100 days, not just one month, but should start working from the moment he takes office. Why is that? This is necessary because there is, as we all know, unfortunately, a water crisis in Pernik, but a number of problems are also being addressed in the area of water management in Bulgaria, which require adequate emergency measures to prevent them from becoming crisis. It is necessary to conduct these measures jointly and in a very good combination with all competent in the field of water management institutions and especially with the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. So the new Minister of Ecology must know very well the competences of all institutions that have a bearing on water management in our country and have a very good coordination between them. In addition, unlike the previous crises that were in this management, this time, although late as a reaction, it has been shown that there is coordination.. it has been shown that this coordination can lead to good results. In addition to having a water crisis in the country, there is an extremely serious problem with the management of waste-related activities there is also required a very adequate emergency response by the new minister, naturally, in coordination with the other competent authorities, with customs, border authorities and with all other competent authorities that are already involved in the transport of waste that may have entered our country. You shouldn't underestimate this problem at all. In addition, it is necessary to take very urgent measures in terms of air cleanliness, i.e. in view of climate change. Unfortunately, it has become everyday in the media to hear about extremely high standards of air pollution, environmental components that have a direct bearing on life, health and well-being of all of us who live in Bulgaria, especially of our fellow citizens who live in large cities. In the field of nature conservation also has serious problems. We are currently in a situation of a criminal procedure launched by the European Commission against Bulgaria related to the construction of an ecological network The reason is that the Ministry of Environment and Water has not issued the necessary orders within the time limit for the announcement of a large part of the protected areas in Bulgaria. Here, too, must take very urgent, accelerated measures and actions so as not to allow this criminal procedure to go into a subsequent stage. This is very clear from the Court of Auditors' report, unfortunately, the Ministry of Environment and Water has saved this information to all of us and has not announced it. By 31 July 2019 the Minister of Ecology had to issue orders to announce 211 protected areas of 341 approved by the European Commission ecozones in Bulgaria. For most areas without orders, however, this period has expired and, as I said, very serious measures must be taken. There are very worrying components regarding the report from the Court of Auditors and they must be very well analysed by the new management of the Ministry of Environment and Water and the Council of Ministers so that measures can be taken and overcome. Finally, at the moment of the Ministry of Environment and Water, a minister is needed to be a good administrator, because from what we have seen in recent months, it is clear that there must be knowledge of the competences of the central office, as well as of regional structures and extremely good coordination between them, together with other competent institutions, in order to have adequate water management in our country. There's a tendency to dehydration at the moment. In other situations in the country, there have been times when there is flooding, and there is a need in the dams, and water management generally implies that there should be adequacy to provide free volumes. All this requires extremely good operational coordination and volume monitoring. All of this is written very well in our legislation and, naturally, it can always be improved, but the main responsibility is the Ministry of Environment and Water, which receives daily, weekly, monthly information and relevant experts and departments of the Swimming Directorate, through the Directorate of Waters in the Ministry, to the Minister must analyse this situation. In cases where it is necessary to provide water, as in the current situation, first priority must naturally be, as laid down in the Constitution, in the legislation and in the Water Act, drinking water supply. And in cases where we have floods, free volumes must be provided. I must point out that our country is in the last five places in Europe with regard to water resources a given that obliges us all and, in particular, the Minister of Environment and Water and its team to have an extremely adequate operational attitude towards water management so as to provide the necessary water for all citizens in our country. Naturally, water reform, which has slowed down in time, must be completed. It's not from yesterday, but it has to be finished. There are a number of things waiting for the new Minister of Environment and Water, but in view of all the considerations that we have put forward, once again, I say that the DPS will not support, as an opposition political force and in view of the arguments put forward, the new Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Chakarov. - What's the line? Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u26	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of Ministers, honourable Members of Parliament! Life is complicated, and this situation shows two sides of what we talked about, and what is your main argument that Mr. Dimitrov was not an expert in this area. I'll give you examples from both sides where some have managed and others have failed. I'll give you an example: two prime ministers without a single day of service who worked only at their party plants failed. I will not state the names of these two prime ministers. At the same time, the previous speaker Mr. Chakarov was a good one, repeating a good minister of ecology, only by education he is a doctor surgeon. So I've always said this: the personality determines the position. In order to take such a high position, you need, above all, to administer well and manage well. What about Mrs. Fandakova? Teacher. [[Replicates from "BSP" for Bulgaria "Teacher in Russian. "]] A Russian teacher. There are many disputes here in parliament, only I think he is a good mayor of Sofia. Here, a Russian language teacher has become a good mayor of Sofia for the fourth term. So it is absolutely untenable that he had to be an expert. He, ladies and gentlemen, is a minister. He's not an expert at the Ministry. Underneath it there are as many experts as there are under it as there are deputy ministers and its main job is to organise this potential. That's the truth. And look at his biography.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u27	The weather, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u28	Yeah, I'm graduating. An impeccable biography. You can't have managed the Customs of Bulgaria, where the main revenues of Bulgaria are coming from at the moment... I think he can handle it as a minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. [[Applause from OP.]] Is there gonna be a second line? I can't see. Mr. Chakarov, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u30	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! I cannot entirely agree with you, Mr. Atanasov. With regard to the new minister, it cannot be denied that he has serious administrative experience in his biography. In view of the considerations I have put forward, we maintain them and we will maintain them because this is a principled position, but we cannot deny and wish him no success because the success of a minister is a success for Bulgaria and for all of us. For all the good, serious, constructive actions and measures and legislative initiatives it will have, it would have had support in the name of the good environmental policies that our country needs to implement, but we will also be as critical for everything that is not in line with the standards of modern European policies. I would just like to remind you that before I became Minister of Environment and Water, four years earlier, I was President of the Committee on Environment and Water in the National Assembly, so the expertise is necessary. Let us hope that the new minister will see the competences and what is necessary essentially in the Ministry of Environment and Water, because good environmental policies, I repeat, are important to all of us and we must observe them, because we see that when there is no adequacy and there are no real, real policies corresponding to European and global trends, we see what the results are for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u31	Thank you, dear Mr. Chakarov. We continue with the speeches. Guys, come on in. Here you are, Mr. Atanasov, for your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers! Dear Mr. Chakarov, I will not comment on the first part of your coat. This is your political statement. [[DPS lines.]] We've been friends with him for years, and there's nothing wrong with that. This is your political statement. I will not comment on it, but I will comment on the second part.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u33	Speak up.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u34	Just because you were a member of this committee doesn't mean anything, because it is a collective body, and you know that the collective body has nothing to do with it, but nothing to do with it when, as they say, you drive the locomotive, you drive the train as a minister. So I'll tell you this: you were a perfect surgeon in Plovdiv as a doctor and at the same time you were a good minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u35	Let's talk about it, Mr. Atanasov. Is that what you said? Thank you. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? Here you go, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u36	Dear Madam President, honourable Deputy Prime Ministers, ladies and gentlemen ministers, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Emil Dimitrov Simeonov, I had not planned to speak, but rather observed what was happening, but I will not hide that the statement of the head of your parliamentary group made me address you with the following words, I quote that you see in the water crisis in Pernik an opportunity. Dear ladies and gentlemen ministers, honourable colleagues, dear Mr. Emil Dimitrov Simeonov! Keep in mind that, as a result of 10 years of water policy, such an opportunity has been given to nearly 500 000 Bulgarian citizens who have a water regime. Besides Pernik, 500 000 Bulgarian citizens live in this situation with this possibility. With regard to the use and management of the European funds, if there was access for the two programming periods up to 3 billion. BGN, and if 10 years ago according to official data of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works water losses were 60%, after 10 years of efforts the so-called water reform, water losses were 61% already, meaning a serious opportunity was given to the European funds. In terms of air, nearly 2 million people in Bulgaria who live in 12 cities are among the top 50 in the world in contaminated air. Note that the European Environment Agency on the 11th, 12th and 13th of this month said that Bulgaria, the Bulgarians, gave these citizens a serious opportunity to breathe dangerously dirty air. Last but not least, a serious opportunity was given with regard to one of Bulgaria's strongest competitive advantages, which does not yet realize it, namely Bulgarian biodiversity. Absolutely nothing was done in this direction and so it was given a very serious opportunity for years of pseudo-environment claims to be made towards the sustainable development of the Bulgarian economy, social life and nature itself. Therefore, using the words of the head of your parliamentary group, I would like to address you and the ministers that there is no way that after these serious opportunities you will not receive our refusal as well. To make the mood better, I also want to tell you this: do not be sad that you do not receive our support. As far as I know, in your everyday life, you at the time you were in the administration in Pleven were our proposal. In other words, ministers, deputy prime ministers and Mr. Emil Dimitrov, you are too sympathetic to give you our support because we do not have an answer as to how an energetic man who often tells jokes and who often contacts us can identify himself at this time with a political framework which, in short, led water reform to failure?! Unfortunately, not only to failure, but the results of the so-called water reform face Bulgaria in a crisis environmental situation a framework which, in terms of waste, cannot tell where, what, when, how, how and who in Bulgaria has stored as waste. If with Mr. Goranov, you know very well the customs indicators for waste are one, the National Statistical Institute is second, and the Ministry of Environment and Water works with other codes. Intentionally or not, it's a fact. So our disagreement is not to you as a person. Commenting on all your professional qualities, you become part of a political model of which Pernik, the waterlessness, the intended trash are only the symbol, just the example of how these decisions have been unstable for the past 10 years, which we will protect without raising political tensions in the vote of mistrust. So, finally, I would like to say that we, as opposition, are the last ones to be accused of being non-constructive for these two years in the framework of our work in Parliament and in the Committee on Environment and Water. Everything that was reasonable, we have supported him and we will continue to support him. And if we do not now give our approval for you or our vote, it is probably good to think about whether this can happen in the future. That depends only on what you're going to do. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u37	Thank you, dear Mr. Kostadinov. - What's the line? Here's a line for you, Mr. Siddy. Mr. Tsonev for speaking after Mr. Bogdanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u38	Thank you, Madam President. It's very funny when BSP talks about ecology. They, of course, have experience with the Chernobyl crisis. At the time, they managed beautifully ecologically. [[Noise and lines.]] The gassing of cities like Ruse... Apparently, this is the experience of BSP in ecology. But when you spread a fake news story for a long time that, you see, the dirty air and the burning of garbage are the big problem and that's a problem in ecology, it's kind of not very funny. False news! What we at IMRO have been talking about for a long time about burning junk in gypsy ghettos is the big problem in big cities, not the problem bringing in secondary raw materials, which you know perfectly well. Bulgaria imports secondary raw materials and this is European practice and we actually export much more than we import, again I say, secondary raw materials, not trash to be burned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u39	Thank you, dear Mr. Siddy. Second line? I won't. Mr. Kostadinov, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u40	My fellow Members, I do not understand the ethnic connection to air pollution. I must tell you that this thesis cannot be perceived in any way, but the policy of opposing a state against citizens, a business interest against public interest has obviously been leading the small coalition partner and for this government as a whole. There are many examples. Otherwise, let me tell you that we at the Positano. 20 don't have measuring instruments. I quote the data of the European Environment Agency, which has alerted Bulgaria in the last three days. Take a look at this data. It is very not serious to politicize the issue with arguments when the problem is extremely serious and concerns the public interest of Bulgarian citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u41	Thank you, dear Mr. Kostadinov. Mr. Bogdanov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u42	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers and Ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The Parliamentary Group of the United Patriarchs will definitely support Mr. Emil Dimitrov's candidacy for Minister of Environment and Water, but along with this we express our disagreement all the blame for what has been happening in recent months and especially the water crisis in the town of Pernik to be passed on to one person, namely, perhaps in a moment, to the former Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov. We do not agree to politicize this issue, especially that Neno Dimov is Minister of Ecology as an expert. We do not agree with the introduction of such an element by the opposition. It is clear that a congress of the Bulgarian Socialist Party is coming. The activity on this topic is part of the general context of demand for greater popularity. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u43	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u44	On the other hand, let us not forget that the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is managing two mandates this sector and the problems that have accumulated in Pernik are not in recent months. They've been piling up for the last 30 years. I don't think anyone is responsible for the fact that the water supply and water supply to the town of Pernik has a problem, there are leaks. It's hardly anyone as Minister Neno Dimov's fault. Then, it's another ministry's priority. We can also be most responsible to state that we are waiting for the objective truth to be presented to our society about what is happening, about the problems that have been accumulated over the years, as well as about the responsibilities of mayors in various governments, district managers, directors of water companies over the years. Therefore, this responsibility must, firstly, be shared and should not be sought by the least responsible for the crisis at the moment. Is Emil Dimitrov qualified to be Minister of Environment and Water? I think this wasn't the place from this tribune, for such pathetic, highly literary, artistic statements that were made by people before me who spoke on the subject. I think we need to be pragmatic and we need to be objective. Emil Dimitrov has undisputed qualities, proved as Director of the Customs Agency that he is an extremely energetic, objective, correct and demanding person. We all remember that time when Mr. Dimitrov did daily checks at different customs posts, including several times in one day at the same place. Violations have been detected, smuggling channels have stopped. If this is not a quality that is necessary at the moment in this sector, I believe that we will not really be in the right to say it. In addition, Mr. Dimitrov and in the rest of his career, in recent years you have known him very well as a Member of the National Assembly, as chairman of a parliamentary committee, very important, very serious, which also has control functions, proved that he can work, and proved that he deserves to hold responsible positions. Should he, as Minister of Ecology, exercise control? Well, I think that every minister, apart from the executive functions he has as such, should also exercise control over his employees. We can see that in the latter case, the chain between who, what, and whose obedience has committed any violations and who is responsible for it is broken somewhere. I am sure that Mr. Dimitrov will be on a daily basis where he should be, will monitor and take responsibility for these people, these employees and officials who do not do their duties conscientiously. That is why we express our unreserved support for him. We are convinced that he will be a good minister for the environment and water, will be extremely communicative, what has been said by other people in this tribune. Perhaps there is little more transparency and a little more information from the Ministry to the citizens regarding all projects and all activities that are taking place in this area. Once again, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the United patriots, I express my support for Emil Dimitrov's candidacy for Minister of Environment and Water. Thank you. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u45	Thank you, dear Mr. Bogdanov. - What's the line? Here's a line for you, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u46	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers! Dear colleague Bogdanov, the top of philosophy was how you tied the Congress of BSP to the vote of distrust for the environment. Perhaps, if there was no congress of BSP, the reservoir of waste would be full, the fine dust particles would be less at the levels that were accepted in Bulgaria as norms, perhaps the movement of waste would be more controlled, the public wouldn't be asking questions about what waste comes into Bulgaria, where they come from, who burns them, who separates them, who recycles them, so to tie this vote with the congress of BSP is extremely unserious. The Congress of BSP interests members of BSP and the whole society. I understand your unseen interest in him, but once again, I repeat, the relationship is somehow not working. I can offer Mr. Dimitrov my sincere sympathy for his new post. And I hope it doesn't come to other situations like this. I see the IMRO colleagues are defending Mr. Neno Dimov. I, Mr. Neno Dimov, have warned him personally in discussions, in committee many times to increase his control over regional environmental inspections and all other control bodies that exercise control over water, air and other environmental activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u47	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. Second line, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Bogdanov, on the occasion of Mr. Neno Dimov's already traditional protection in everyone's speeches, I remember a few days ago one of your signals about the neighborhood where you live in Vratsa, because the air simply cannot breathe. I hope you won't blame it on someone far back in the years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u49	Thank you, dear Mr. Popdimitrov. Third line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Bogdanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u50	Dear Mr. Genov, in one thing you are right, the Congress of BSP is your business, but still as people who have been engaged in political activity for many years, we are aware of what your practices are and what your goals and intentions are. It is clear that when you are trying to politicize the issue and trying to hit the small coalition partner in a ruling coalition, you want to shake the entire coalition. Whether this is pre-election or pre-congress, this is now another topic. With regard to Mr. Popdimitrov's statement, yes, of course, as a Member of the National Assembly, I am obliged to signal the relevant authorities when there is an irregularity. A RIEW inspection was carried out on this signal by Vratsa, and I do not think that the Ministry or the relevant regional eco-inspection is responsible for someone's irresponsibility. It has been found that irregular actions have been committed and that the relevant penalties have been imposed. Nothing more than that. Here's an example of how the Department of Ecology did its job conscientiously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u51	Thank you, dear Mr. Bogdanov. Mr. Tsonev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u52	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister! It seems to me that the debate on the ninth consecutive resignation in this Chamber of the Council of Ministers goes too much into the expert niche, not that there is no need to talk about the expertise and expertise of the cabinet and ministers, but in this case, the political issue is more important, respectively, the political debate, so I will try to get the debate back where it belongs in this Chamber, that is to make it more political. Did you know, colleagues from GERB and members of the Council of Ministers that this ninth consecutive resignation, as well as each of them, if you go back, is caused by some crisis, by the attempt to solve some crisis problem? This somehow leads us to believe that the Council of Ministers has become a crisis management centre. Not that there are no such functions a minister and a Council of Ministers, but if this is the main function, we should ask ourselves a few questions and we should do so. Crisis occurs out of the blue, falls out of the sky, occurs just as suddenly, as we manage properly, forward-lookingly, with a horizon of at least four years, or crises are the result of management decisions, the fruit of wrong management actions or omissions, or are the result of a lack of systematic analysis and as we have become accustomed to calling the lack of sufficient focus of the program, lack of vision or lack of priorities. Whenever we have said from the DPS that you do not have a program, you have answered: "We have! " The truth is that you do, but it is not focused because everything is a priority, and when everything is a priority, nothing is a priority. That's the first problem. The second problem is if we turn to crisis theory, because there is such a science, we will see that a large part of the crises have their genesis, have their causal relationship over time and the management of a crisis starts from there. It's only an opportunity when you have it in mind, when you know how to control it, and it's by no means an opportunity when you're trying to run after it and solve it with personnel decisions. As you can see, this leads to nothing. Let's take the water problem, then I'll look at the second crisis that caused the Chief of Health's statement. Neither the dam has been empty since yesterday, nor Pernik and the surrounding area has increased its inhabitants for one or two months, i.e. water consumption, or factories, businesses and so on. All of this has its own history in time. The problem facing GERB is that you can no longer justify yourself with previous governments. For the last 11 years you have managed 10 and from the causal links that have created a particular crisis, many, many, very few of them can be found in time from 10 years ago. So the crises that the Bulgarian society consumes today and which you are trying to solve are categorically from your actions and omissions. And that's obvious to everyone now, I hope for you too. So the problem with the water supply in Pernik hasn't been a problem since yesterday.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u53	Mr. Tsonev, can we increase the time?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u54	Yeah, increase the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u55	Increase the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u56	Obviously this is about a series of management errors, a lack of systematic analysis and a lack of prioritization of this problem. However, more drastic is the problem of health care. Everyone is now talking about how the manager of the Health Insurance Fund points to one problem, only no one is talking about the problem being systemic. There is a problem at the Health Ministry, of course he is there, but no one is talking about who supported Minister Ananiev in his attempt to make some kind of reform. Nobody! Including you from the ruling majority, which I remember you appointed him because he had experience because he was a financier and because he was about to demonopolist the cassata. Well, did you do it? All his attempts were blaming! Absolutely all of them! And they were blamed, I tell you this to you as fellow politicians, were blamed by those who use the cassa for their own benefit. As long as this model exists, I return to this problem because this crisis is about to develop, while the model in healthcare is, the crises are permanent. He's having a crisis. It's the same in other areas. Remember, the other day the Prime Minister meets with carriers, solves crises. Before that, last year's social crisis. Our opinion, of the DPS parliamentary group, we have said it many times, said the President of this tribune today: the crises are set by the lack of focus in the programme, i.e. clear priorities, by the lack of expert vision on how these priorities will develop, how they will be reformed. If you had told the carriers how the reform of the Tol system would have developed, they would not have protested, they would have known that in 2020 this would have followed in 2021. That's what I'm talking about. The same is true for the rest of us, and for healthcare, most of all, the lack of focus, and last but not least, of course, the management model you have chosen. He's generating instability. If we ask you now what is the legitimate majority in the National Assembly, which is behind this cabinet, Mrs. Daritkova, will you be able to answer me because there is no 121? You don't! What's the legitimate majority? There isn't one! [[(Reply from "BSP" for Bulgaria]] But they're denying that Volvo is in the majority. If they say the Vol is in the majority and the independents are in the majority, okay! However, this is not the case, and this is another example of the fact that the management model is wrong and absolutely exhausted from a crisis in crisis you will walk! We will not support any palliative measure, no measure that is the executor of this composition, of this majority, because it is exhausted. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u57	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. To speak, Mr. Shopov has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u58	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ministers, dear colleagues! When a candidate for a minister is nominated and elected, a debate is also being made, today, on policies and its attitude should be seen on fundamental issues. It is impressive that one of the super problems in ecology and conservation of the natural environment is neglecting, that is the problem of junk and more precisely the import of junk from abroad to Bulgaria. It is clear to everyone that, as Bulgaria is viewed on the territory in many other relations, it is also seen as a site for the disposal and disposal of junk from countries in the European Union, I will not quote them. The problem has sharpened and gained citizenship, was reflected in the media, and we are discussing it from the moment when the Vice-President of the Council of Ministers Mr. Chukolov asked a question to Minister Nev...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u59	Dimov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u60	...about the junk and waste that's being stored in the country. After that, the topic was continued in society, but we have not done anything significant in this regard as the National Assembly so far. For this reason, we are submitting to the National Assembly a proposal to tackle and impose a moratorium on imports of junk from abroad for a period of one year in order to change legislation, to stick institutions and to make practices for dealing with this problem. That is why we think it is very important to hear and find out from the minister who is proposed, what is his attitude towards this moratorium that we are going to bring, and from now on what will be done in this direction. The problem has been neglected, including today's speeches and opinions, and the parliamentary group, which raises the candidate for a minister, which is disturbing for us. In this regard, we want to hear what the ruling majority intends, including the candidate for a minister, about whether they will adopt our idea of imposing a moratorium on imports of junk from abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u61	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches, colleagues? Here you go, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u62	Mrs. Chairman! Please extend the group time!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u63	Times have been extended.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u64	Dear colleagues, there is no way from our parliamentary group to support the resignation of a minister, as this is the model of governance. A model of governance in which one person solves the single problems of each guild for over a decade. The nurses have a problem.. Borisov solves it, go out to protest carriers.. Borisov comforts them and they come home. But the government's failures are multiplying and so a state cannot be managed, can not block every day holes, they become more and more and that is obvious to all Bulgarian citizens. Once again, no problems are solved with the whole responsibility on the head of a minister. It is clear that at the top of all this stands the Prime Minister and the sole model of governance has one problem: besides cashing out political dividends when problems are asked, you are also responsible. In order to escape this responsibility, the Prime Minister is blowing fuses. And the more severe the crisis, the more severe these fuses are. Attempts to transfer responsibility to past years, climate change, and other universe factors will not work. I'm going to tell you a few numbers to understand that these are deep systemic problems and mostly the result of wrong environmental policies. Only in waste management, however you try to convince us that the garbage crisis was invented that it was very nice and even healthy for Bulgarian citizens to burn garbage, it is far from so. It is clear that since 2015 garbage related to the Italian mafia has been imported into Bulgaria. The Ministry and the Regional Inspections do inspections only on documents and not on the morphology of waste, meaning no one knows what is being burned or what comes out of the chimneys of these thermal plants. If this is good for the health of Bulgarian citizens, tell him, gentlemen of government! But at the same time, I will give you a few data to understand that Bulgarians live in one reality and governance in another parallel universe. Statistically Bulgaria recycled more waste from the UK and Luxembourg, let's say. At the same time, the Bulgarians pay more for the management of their waste than the Belgians for maintenance of the common areas and places of common use in Bulgaria we pay the most throughout Europe. Well, when you look away, do you see Bulgaria as the cleanest country? Against the background of this is burned not only trash from Europe and third countries, it is burned from Bulgaria as well. Again we are going to the reality by document and paper all tires and oils in Bulgaria are recycled and the Bulgarians have paid their fees for their recycling. On paper it is so, in practice tires and oils are burned for heating, are also burned due to low social status, but are also burned because the recycling money has leaked into someone's pockets. The government, both the Ministry of Ecology and the entire government, knows perfectly well about these problems and has not taken any measures so far. These are not findings of the opposition, these are findings of the World Bank, laid down in reports that the Ministry of Finance and Management itself has ordered, but obviously does not listen to their conclusions, which, by the way, are quite accurate and correct. In this whole crisis, at the end, when GERB hears from the media, from opposition, from the people themselves about the problems, takes the position of surprised, stands and says: "Ah, what is going on here?............................................... In the end, however, there is no escape from responsibility this time, because in this whole debate something very unpleasant and disrespectful to the parliamentary republic is shown: throughout the debate the opposition is having a discussion with itself, until GERB does not take the floor, they are not speaking, that is, the problems of the environment, which we are obviously talking about and we are not talking populist, we are talking with facts and data, you are not interested in! You're waiting for opposition time to run out so you can either not talk or come out and talk to yourself! Take attitude after all and protect yours! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u65	Thank you, dear Mr. Bojankov. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. I don't see any speeches either. Mr. Ermenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u66	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We will not support this decision, it has already become clear to you, but I would like to ask where is the carrier of the decision, because this decision is not an importer of the Council of Ministers, but is written in black and white that an importer is the Prime Minister? The President of the Council of Ministers is making this decision and he should be defending it here, but his absence in a normal state could be considered or disagreed with the proposal and it was imposed on him by the government, or that he was ashamed of the ninth consecutive shift he made. Knowing him, he's neither ashamed nor disagreed with this shift. There is another solution, and I'm going to tell you this, and I don't know if you'll like it, ministers gentlemen. The Prime Minister treats you, figuratively speaking, as stains on his white coat, and these decisions that we are now adopting as shifting?, now the ninth, look like dry cleaning of this sander for removing the stain, which is preventing him from currently looking snow white, virgin, pure, infallible. Unfortunately, with these decisions, politics does not get better. Unfortunately, even the mouthpieces have the resources of dry cleaning and cannot be constantly cleaned and at some point they will break because this solution you are offering us today, this element of another dry cleaning of the stable of the President of the Council of Ministers, is palliative and does not solve the problems in Bulgaria, nor will it solve the problems in the field of water, nor will it solve the problems in the area of garbage. I will not say that it will not solve the problems of this government's health policy at all, in the field of education, in the area of the next bomb waiting for us, and this is coal energy, in the field of social policy and in any area you want an element of policy. On the contrary, this solution masks the problems because what we are going to accept today does not meet the interests of the Bulgarian people. The only solution that can be answered by the Bulgarian people is the Prime Minister on the basis of art. 111, para. 1, t. 2 and para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria to submit a draft decision for acceptance of the resignation of the Council of Ministers. There is no other solution for Bulgaria! Be assured that sooner or later within this National Assembly such a draft decision will be submitted the sooner, the better! Every day until the adoption of such a decision is a day lost for Bulgaria, a day killing our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u67	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Just to let you know that the Prime Minister is visiting Egypt. He made his proposal and here is Deputy Prime Minister Donchev who did it. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Come in for a statement, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u68	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Council of Ministers! Dear MPs, there are several problems that are being posed today in the election of a new minister. The first one is the reason it came to this. Apparently Mr. Neno Dimov resigned because he was arrested, not because he had failed in politics. Moreover, in the days before he was taken, you by the majority and his fellow ministers defended his every decision. The arrest is an arrest, criminal liability is criminal liability and it is intended to see whether the mistakes made by Minister Dimov are guilty within the meaning of the Penal Code. Mistakes are obvious even if they are caused not by his guilty conduct, but by lack of expertise or by the understatement of the case, and it costs the lack of water of the hundred thousandth city of Pernik, because it is more than obvious that the respective permissions are scheduled without assessing what can follow from this. Today we are discussing the failure of a policy and this resignation should have been a fact without the other things that happened and the arrest of Mr. Neno Dimov. This is of particular importance not only to be held accountable by the government. We will talk about this next week, it is of particular importance to make clear the problem and find solutions. What's the problem? What have we heard so far about the water crisis and the environmental problems of the majority and the government?! Some have explained to us that this is about global warming and climate change. Because of global warming, perhaps the fires in Australia, because of an increase in ocean levels may be the floods in Venice, but in Bulgaria there is no water, and we are flooded when there is rain, because the derets are not cleaned because we are wrong to manage our water resources and have nothing to do with the otherwise important problem of general climate change. That's what you have to say to fix it. Instead of fixing it, what are you offering us today? You offer us Mr. Dimitrov's candidacy, who is a colleague of ours, and we all know him, but we don't know him as someone who has ever taken any kind of attitude about the issues we discuss. He doesn't have that kind of expertise, he doesn't claim to have it, and you don't protect her, by the way. Those who broadcast it, the friends, the colleagues of the United Patriarchs, claim that, you see, the air is contaminated because people burned their tires. That there is a problem with burning tires, you even proposed recently and we will soon discuss putting people in jail who burn their tires, but do they really pollute the air the most? Let's be honest! They're not the TPPs that burn anything anywhere, anywhere. That's the same logic you suggested for the beaches when you punished those who put tents, not those who with bulldozers pass the dunes. Once and for all, it must become clear that we are here to protect the interest of the majority, not the interest of the people who gain, often violating the fundamental values that should make us live together. I see Mr. Donchev is standing up. Last year, he tried to provoke a debate on a new model of the Bulgarian economy, with which to move from one type of economy to another with high added value. We have tried to bring this debate here, we have had several conversations with him on this issue, but today instead of talking about how we will face the challenges of new industrial revolutions, instead of wondering how to go from economy to economy of added value, we are wondering how to bring water and how to breathe air. Soon we will be wondering how to provide food for people, given the prices of the goods we mentioned earlier. It is your model of political protection to move things back to 10, 15, 20 years, and today someone is talking about Chernobyl. Unfortunately, however, the policy that you have brought us into the 19th century, because when other peoples develop and look to the coming decades, we have returned to search for water and food in Bulgaria, which is blessed with its nature and which is destroyed because of carelessness and incompetence. We are not telling your proposal for a new minister, we are not telling your government, we are not telling your whole policy! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u69	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches, colleagues? Mr. Nenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u70	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen of ministers! I realize that the subject, especially for people who are suffering at the moment, is either in Pernik or in other settlements, whatever is said by this tribune ultimately the problem lies before them and it is a fact that we have a serious crisis in Pernik. It is clear to me that whatever I say will hardly reach their deep consciousness. The reason for today's debate and today's vote and change in the Council of Ministers is the situation in Pernik and the resignation of Mr. Neno Dimov, for which I respect his decision. I don't think the arrest was the only reason. I think that a resignation has been made, as every minister or employee of a high state position should always have the same meaning that political responsibility is ultimately borne, except for a criminal one. I believe that in the coming months and times Mr. Neno Dimov will have the opportunity to defend his position, but I do not want to mix natural penal responsibility with political responsibility. It is a fact and here I appeal to the citizens of Pernik that there is no doubt that by their inaction or action, guilty persons who must bear the full criminal responsibility, if their guilt is proved, of course, without the National Assembly and we as MPs to play the role of some judges we are not and do not need. Anyone can be put in this situation, but the rule of law requires that everyone be innocent until proven guilty. The fact is, however, that there is really no way to hide this thing in Pernik, and there are officials who have contributed to this happening. I believe that the Prosecutor's Office and all the competent authorities, as it is seen and removed, I think that this is the right approach and must absolutely uncompromisingly, the crusade must be held accountable by everyone who has been involved in the case of Pernik. What is important at the moment is to tell the Perniks that the state, with all its power, financial and intellectual potential, is sitting behind them and trying in short time Finishing with Pernik's theme, I don't want to put the situation in Pernik on the same plane and the water problem at all. I think NEK may be an opportunity, but in the end, a crisis can really give some greater impetus to the reform that has been going on in the water sector in recent years. The fact is that we need to change our very consciousness about using water as in years, having it abundantly, not to appreciate it. The fact is that we do not value it perhaps so much because it is a question of both education and culture, and not just government officials, but every single person to appreciate this resource, as it is obvious that there are also unprognosable situations in the climate that we cannot ignore and rather look really at how to make the best use of what God has given us. If we turn Pernik aside and I really want to turn him off somehow, as we have already said that there are people there who have to take their responsibility, then literally from yesterday, without quoting where it comes from, where for drinking and household needs they use drilling, they start saying that in fact some of the probes are already starting to draw air and therefore just running out of water. There are also climate features, of course, without that justifying the situation in Pernik, which we need to take into account. However, I cannot agree that nothing, you see, has been done, is waiting for some crisis to happen to make any decisions. On the contrary, fellow Members, the last few governments are even going in one direction, even your governments, the Water Act, the Strategy for Water Use in the Sector has also been adopted, the Water Act in 2009 has been adopted by our government, but the Law has been drawn up even during the Triple Coalition; the Water Sector Strategy is also during the Oresharski cabinet, it has been adopted with the help of the World Bank, so here several governments are going in one direction. From private conversations and with you, I think that the road we are going on is the consolidation in the water associations, the legal framework that should have been made has already been made, the signature of the water association with a water operator has also taken place, and these are many steps that slowly but gradually take place in the right direction. I think that we shouldn't have any differences in our common vision of what will happen from now on in the sector. The biggest problem, colleagues, in water supply and sewers at all, is financial. In fact, perhaps this is the reason for delaying the completion of the reform, because, by gross calculations, this is very well known, it is necessary that within the coming years, nearly 11 billion minimum be found so that, on the one hand, we can improve the water structure, the water system, to restore financially the water companies, those with poor financial conditions, be financially sound, able to invest, improve the quality of the service they provide, and all of this is about money. However, when we talk about money, here comes the other very important moment - we must have a real consensus between the entire political class. What do we do with the price of responding to the real investments that the water operators actually have to carry out, to be able to make new treatment plants, to be able to improve shipping and delivery pipelines, how are we going to recover financially and how are we going to pour this financial resource into these water operators? There is no other way to do this unless the cost of water is increased in order for the service to be what is really necessary for these companies to be able to operate calmly. However, this leads to a different point of view - there are people and standards that we should not avoid, to help people who will not be able to afford this service. The state must be absolutely socially oriented towards these people. Unlike energy, where and with colleagues in the Energy Commission we are going towards liberalisation of the electricity market, there is serious support from the state for people who cannot bear the burden of increasing, where necessary, at this price, we are going to liberalise the gas market, but here with water there is no way that this thing will happen. We must therefore look for opportunities for the state to support those people who cannot bear the cost of water. It is a fact that one of the lowest prices for this service I have not done statistics, but it is certainly in Bulgaria if we compare the same service with other European countries. On the grounds that I cannot agree that it is not being done and is not going in any direction, you very well remember that December literally, even in your decision, agreed that the Ministry of Regional Development should submit the changes to the entirely new Water Service Act and for the water sector in May to enter and begin to be subject to public discussion. We have been since last year, and in the last year or so, this law is written. It's already got the basics. There is no way I can agree with the other statement this morning that these water companies are almost leading to some deliberate bankruptcy in order to privatize them. Colleagues, obviously, or at least the colleague who spoke on this topic this morning, have not read any of the documents that the state.. I say again, and these legal documents have been adopted during your management. On the contrary, one of the main strategies that is recorded in both the Water Act and the Water Sector Management Strategy is fully preserving the public character of the water networks. You can't in any way talk about here that, you see, someone is trying in some kind of deliberate way to bankrupt these companies. I told you where the main problem is. We need to resolve this, as this law will literally be in the coming months, I hope it will also enter the plenary for discussion, we must here as possible, if we can come to some consensus, solve this issue with the cost of this service, so that these water companies can not only rely on European funding, as if we are talking about 11 "12 billion investments," but we have the possibility of European funding in the order of less than 2 billion, you yourselves understand the huge hole that is still hanging in this sector. If the roads of the municipal and Republican network total 40 thousand, then in the water sector the pipes are nearly 90 thousand. You understand the scale of the investments that need to be invested in this system, so that these 60's 70%, for which in some areas more are loss-making, will not be a fact and that we can save what nature has given us. Of course, from the new minister, because I believe that his biography, if you will, even his nickname requires him to fill his stay in the coming months until the end of this government's term. It's obvious, and in Pernik, the situation has shown us that there are gaps. There are gaps, there is a transfer of guilt, there is certain, again I say, inaction or understatement of the situation, or deliberate misdeeds, but there is definitely a need to improve administration, the use of water as a whole. I, on behalf of the parliamentary group, can say that we both support the proposal for a change in the Council of Ministers with the request, with Mr. Emil Dimitrov Simeonov's commitment to enter literally with a flying start in the coming months, so as to try to find these gaps and with the help of the majority to immediately be stopped. Do not come to a next situation in Pernik or anywhere else where everyone transfers responsibility to someone else and eventually it will be blurted out. This is our wish on behalf of the parliamentary group. In view of Mr. Emil Dimitrov's biography, I believe that he also with the application he gave yesterday, I think he reluctantly accepts this position, but I believe that he will show the results that are pressing and must be shown in the coming months. Therefore, GERB's parliamentary group will support the changes in the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u71	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. [[Private applause from GERB.]] A line? Mr. Genov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u72	Dear President, dear Mr. Nenkov, honourable gentlemen and ministers! Mr. Nenkov, you have stated here from this platform that you are giving your full support to Emil Dimitrov Simeonov, but you were the only one as Matrosov stood on the stand, as he did to the Ambrazur, to protect the appointment of Mr. Dimitrov. We at BSP seriously doubt that this may be a small fruit of political hypocrisy, but time will show. I want to focus on my line on something else. You slowly and irritably explained to us how everything is going honey and butter with the water reform. Here, from this tribune, I have repeatedly said that she has already drowned. Mr. Nenkov, we had a commitment by 2018 on all these strategies and documents that you have listed, to reduce losses to 50%, with an option for the future to bring them to mid-European norms. Unfortunately, that didn't happen! We were driving the train and we were giving the impression that he was walking, but he was shaking! This whole situation in the water sector because I will tell you: seventeen companies in Bulgaria, a very large part of them, the so-called large and medium-sized companies, have losses over 60%, four companies have losses over 70, five companies are on the verge of 59 to 60, there are tragic cases not to list them, over 80. What does that say? Yes, reform was launched in 2009, we had a consensus. You mentioned social tolerance.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u73	The weather, Mr. Genov!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u74	Mr. Gokov and I have been talking about this since 2015 and there should be help from the state to those who can't pay for the water. Business to be released, as you say...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u75	The weather, Mr. Genov!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u76	...to generate funds and invest them. This is, however, a lack of political will all this time! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u77	Thank you. Mrs. Yankova, please come in for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u78	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers! Dear colleague Nenkov, as you commented on the problems related to the water sector and made announcements related to water reform and increasing the cost of water, 2009 when the debate on modernization of water reform began, about 11 billion funds were needed in the presence of start-up and implementing projects under the ISPA, then under the Rural and Operational Programme. This suggests that with the second planning period, the pre-accession period and the state's money by at least four, five billion had to be upgraded infrastructure, or about 40%. At the moment we are talking again about these 11 billion and you are pleading to increase the price with the problems Mr. Genov shared about the heavy losses! Here the problem is: yes, the price increases to keep the status of officials and employees working in the water to receive good wages. And since the Minister of Interior is also here, and I found out that checks are being carried out on the water companies, the DANS and the Ministry of the Interior have entered everywhere, let them check with the money they collect, what investments are made and how the implementation of water projects is going. And the new minister that you will choose is a problem and is a question: will the administration strain so that water projects can be implemented in three, maximum up to four years, or will eight years be implemented? Here are huge problems and lack of political will, the focus of the Council of Ministers on these problems and not: let's give an increase in the price for these companies!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u79	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. Mr. Bonev, for the third line please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u80	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable gentlemen and ministers, Dear Mrs. Avramova, especially to you! Dear Mr. Nenkov, the facts are as follows: September 20th It's a fact! Because you've been trying to apologize to the Perniks for a long time. The fact that the last five years the water company is managed by a manager appointed by GERB. Fact! From the government! The fact that they knew about the water crisis in Pernik and the head of the district administration and the mayor of the municipality. A fact leaked from the public statement of the former manager of the water company in Pernik since yesterday, in the prosecution, officially. It's just facts! The fact that there are 80% losses in the transport network in Pernik, and not in the last thirty years, but in the last five or ten, we can say. The fact that nothing has been done for Pernik in the last 20 years. Excuse me! [[Noise, lines, laughter from GERB.]] The fact that the absorption of euro funds is 27.03 per cent under operational programmes. It's just part of the facts. There's no way, Mr. Nenkov, you can explain to a hundred thousand Perniks that it's time to find a consensus, get out of the situation. The situation in Pernik is hopeless, I'd say catastrophic. Pernik may be facing a humanitarian crisis that Bulgaria's new history has not known since 1989. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u81	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. For the coat, Mr. Nenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u82	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I do not recall in my speech seeking justification for the situation in Pernik. Yes, you are! I turned to the Perniks to tell them that at this moment the state is doing everything in its power to ease the situation they are in. And that there are people who are guilty, obviously, by their actions or inaction, no one is questioning it, nor am I going to allow myself to go out and say, "Well, you see, it's all flowers and roses, and there's no guilt." There's just no water, there's no snow. I would never dare to go out and say such a thing! And since that's how you set the tone, it's very easy for me to say... You said well, Mr. Bonev, the last 20 years. We can say the last 30 years! For 30 years four years he has managed GERB, 26 he manages BSP [[noise, lines and laughter from BSP for Bulgaria.]] But that's not the tone I tried to make in my speech. On the contrary, I said what the overall problem was and tried to shift the situation in Pernik beyond the context of the entire problem we face as a nation. And I didn't plead, Mrs. Yankova, to increase the cost of water! The fact is, how many billion... I can also take you back in time, which projects are where they are stuck in your time. I don't want to get into this. The problem is really financial, because all the other documents have almost been made....................................... everything is ready. The only major problem that we here in this room have to solve is how to finance these water operators. And as far as checks are concerned, of course, there must be constant monitoring of how they are spent, how they are implemented, whether these projects are implemented in time, which are vital to some areas. But on the other hand, do not underestimate the situation and what has been done in recent years. Because since 29, if memory serves, water companies, we have a real May four or five that are at a loss. The others already with the consolidation of an association, the conclusion of a contract, the demand for one price for one area, eventually managed to increase in some way in the economies of scale to improve the financial situation of these companies. We must continue with the most rapid steps, and I hope that the situation we are in right now, the unpleasant situation we are in, should give us even more desire to bring this problem to a solution as quickly as possible how we will finance these companies and how they will be able to reduce these 60. 70 losses at some places to some normal European level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u83	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. Any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Mr. Dimitrov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u84	Thank you, Madam President. A lot of questions have been asked by everyone, and I couldn't answer that in two minutes. Please give me time!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u85	Yeah, not as an MP. Take your card away, Mr. Dimitrov. Ah, you're still a MP, yes, of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u86	I promised the badge I'd give it to the Quaestor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u87	You've got six minutes of group time, so here you go. [[Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria ":" We closed the meeting! "]] We closed the meeting, he wants to say... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u88	Madam President, let's not create tension. Once the vote is over, please give me the opportunity to respond to the questions asked, I will be grateful.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u89	Okay, of course, Mr. Dimitrov there's been a slight confusion. Colleagues, I will read the draft decision on personal changes in the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria. Please invite the Quaestors. Project! DECISION for personal changes to the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in connection with the decision of the National Assembly on the election of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 4 May 2017. (DV, No. 37 from 2017), Decision of the National Assembly on Personal Changes to the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 10 November 2017. (DV, No. 91 from 2017), Decisions of the National Assembly on Personal Changes in the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 20 September 2018. (DV, No. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1).), Decision of the National Assembly on Personal Changes to the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 21 November 2018. (DV, No. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). and the decision of the National Assembly on personal changes to the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 20 December 2018. (DV, No. 107 from 2018) and Decision of the National Assembly on Personal Changes to the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 5 April 2019. (DV, No. 29 from 2019), Decision of the National Assembly on Personal Changes to the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 15 May 2019. (DV, No. 40 from 2019) and Decision of the National Assembly on Personal Changes to the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 3 December 2019. (DV, No. 96 from 2019) HAS DECIDED 1. He released Neno Nenov Dimov as Minister of Environment and Water. 2. He chose Emil Dimitrov Simeonov as Minister of Environment and Water. Please, voting mode. They voted 207 MPs: for 111, against 96, there is no abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u90	Negative vote!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u91	Negative vote, Mr. Yankov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u92	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the Council of Ministers, honourable Members of Parliament! [[Radio and movement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u93	Colleagues, hold on. The Minister will take an oath. Please take your seats.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u94	My negative vote is because of the reluctance to support a government that has created a dire situation. You are putting in the place of the previous minister, from whom, in the words of Karakachanov, you expect to revise. Refresh what? Your own so far, your own carelessness? We need a minister who can manage the sector properly, deal with the current problems and prevent future problems. You have appointed a person to whom tasks have been assigned, which are the work of other authorities, the prosecution, the investigation, the court, the Ministry of Interior, the State Agency of National Security, the KKCONPI, as you can see, have already been activated. This assignment shows how devoid of personnel potential your coalition association is. Anyone who has taken a post leaves or you remove it after serious public discredit because you lack the cooperation of proven experts is reluctant to associate their name with your compromised management. Only the opportunity remains for you to give out positions in a narrow circle of parliamentary representation and by failing to do so, let's go back to Parliament or to another state post. I don't support your model of use of power.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u95	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. Will there be a second negative vote? I can't see. Colleagues, please stand up. [[Everyone gets up.]] Mr. Dimitrov, please take an oath. Repeat after me.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u96	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u97	Congratulations! Good luck. You have the floor, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u98	Dear President, honourable gentlemen and members of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria, Deputy Prime Ministers, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honourable Members! He must answer many of the questions you asked. I'll be a little longer, please excuse me. Firstly, I would like to thank everyone for working together for the last five years, regardless of government, opposition, coalition. Thanks to everyone I've managed to do something with, something to decide. We didn't get along on a lot of things. That hasn't made me an enemy with you. Thanks for sitting next to you, no one thinks there's much going on, and we're just talking. I believe the same will be in my new position. I think we can always find a common language or a working solution. If we don't find out about a matter, it certainly won't make us enemies, even though some of you might think I am. Of course, this is the highest authority of the state. We are a division of authorities. The post I held up to a few seconds ago, I think it's much bigger than the minister's, at least that's the way it is on the Constitution. So to say that I'm going to make out for another post or whatever, I don't think it would be right. This is also one of the reasons why I wonder how to propose to one of the members of GERB a former Minister of Ecology, to come to help, because it will come down to a lower post and this will in some way offend her, will affect her. Otherwise, if she did, I'd ask her with both hands to do it because the Prime Minister decides these things. But let's get to the point. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Donchev introduced me very briefly. I don't know if it should have been more than that. You've got one master's degree enough, but I've graduated four schools, I've got three master's. I'm a lawyer, an economist. I also graduated as a teacher in 1984. I'm a choreographer. I haven't worked since, but I've done that too. I'm sorry I couldn't use it. I said economist, lawyer, I'm a graduate auditor in the public sector, I'm an expert in forensic accounting, and I'm registered in the appropriate order. I have defended the law of the Bar at the Gabrovo Bar Association. You asked me what I've been working on, if I could handle it? Until you start something, you don't know. But, okay, I'm going to list it really quickly on a piece of paper because I didn't know I was gonna have to talk. I have revised the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Defence, the National Intelligence Service, the National Bureau for Territorial Asylum and Refugees at the UN High Commissionerate, the Council of Ministers, the Bulgarian National Radio, the Bulgarian National Television, the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, the National Security Service, the Government Hospital, the former Department of Commerce and Industry, we divided them. I'm the one who divided the UBO into the individual components. You know me and all the territorial units in the country, state reserve and wartime reserves, oil barter against grain. Well, it was a red government that sent me there to find out what was going on if there was a grain, or if there wasn't what was going on next. The year 2007 when they stopped the Roads Fund, well, get mad at me, but I did the final report, the famous Brother and Brother, which was a diversion because they held a district, and in fact everything was happening in the rest of the country. Yes, and this report, the European Union, came, gave me only four investigators. I've written, I've done and I've sent. It's classified. Each country may request it for the purposes of its own training of employees. Yeah, and this report I signed, they stopped the roads then. That wasn't good. I worked as Secretary General of the District Administration Pleven. All my life I've been a civil servant and worked for every single government. I have treated the leadership that has appointed me with respect. If you don't like it, quit! I've worked for all of you. For everyone! I've written three books and books. I said the post is higher than the one I've been on. I heard a statement: why would the party have proposed me? I apologize, gentlemen, and that was said by a representative of a parliamentary group in which they are Mom, Dad and I are two husbands, the other aunt, uncle and two employees. But that's not a crime, gentlemen. And who put them up for this position, and did they legally enter parliament? The leader of their parliamentary group. So their leader may have offered them to sit here, but when they came, they kept tabs on why my leader, who broadcast me and gave me a seat in parliament, offered me twice for approval. The Prime Minister thought he could support my candidacy. Democracy can speak, but it shouldn't be like this. I want to thank Mr. Vejdi Rashidov. He was my minister, I was appointed by Deputy Director of Law-Administrative and Financial Affairs of the largest institution in the composition of the Ministry of Culture. We've worked well for years. I've worked with all the other ministers, one of us isn't his bright memory, he was one of your ranks. Mr. Stoinev was my minister. He's assigned me tasks, I've worked, he's helped me out a lot, I'm grateful. I want to thank everyone I've worked with. Why did I accept this post? Because I can't work in a certain direction for three years and say, I'm fine in Parliament. I'm really good. I'm getting along fine. Any minute now, my most difficult law will be passed, and so will he. I've practically achieved everything. A lot of the shady business I've put into the light. I've been in charge of several ministries. I have met the support of an interior minister, a chief prosecutor, an economic minister, a finance minister. I've been in charge of the revenue section, and I've come across an understanding. That's why I didn't go to Pernik, that's because I was born in Pernik. They said he didn't go there, and I was born there. I lived there, Dimova mahala, Beli brig, Rudnjar, Bella water. My grandfather is from Pernik from the village of Lobosh. I lived in the village of Lobosh with my grandparents. I've seen when the dam was built, if you don't know. This dam, which was built in the old days to cleanse the water from DMZ, is now a steel industry dam and then with pumps to return through two dams to the plant to become working water and to Greece to go clean. I've bathed in this dam and I've seen it build, I was a kid, very young, but I've seen it. But yesterday I said I didn't go to the wall because I didn't want to engage politically in any way, because they'd say, "He's in charge of smuggling, now he's gone to do PR for the people, my fellow citizens." That's where my uncles live. That's where my relatives live. That's how it happened, but it's the truth. I didn't go so I wouldn't get ratings. How many times have I talked to Mr. Krasimir Velchev, Dr. Alexandrov, who are from the city. I've told them where the pumps are going, where the pipes are, if something can't be done, not because I will solve the problem, the Prime Minister will solve it. No one but him can solve it, and I think a solution has been found, but something has to be done. I didn't go to get ratings. That's why I said: I didn't go to the wall the moment I went, when I saw, I could tell you. But just to ask: is this a wall from yesterday? Is this yesterday's dam? Is this a factory from yesterday? The city and leaks? Excuse me, do you think that in the last three years, someone went with a drill and drilled through the pipes to run? No, they've been running for 50 years. Now there's this problem. Do you think the city was brand-new until three years ago and now suddenly it's leaked? But there was another thesis, and the pipe was leaking, and there were losses in the city, and the pumping station, and the factories were working, but the water was running, and now it's not. And that we need to clarify why it is. But there have been problems over the years, no one has gone now necessarily to pour into the river or to leave the citizens without water. It's very easy. They're my fellow citizens, they're my relatives. I'm talking about my relatives right now. Turns out you're saying we don't have any water! It's impossible. It doesn't have to happen. All right, we're shutting down the water at the factories, and we're putting it on the citizens beautifully! They come out and say, "We don't have a job!" Or do we have no water strike where is our water? Well, it ran out of 1 million liters running into the river from this pipe. In ten years, a whole dam has flown into the river, separate from the city's network. If you say: we give water, the next day they come and say: but we have no business, you have stopped the water of the plant. One day we have no water, the next day we have no work, on the third day why do we have no heat? From me, if you expect me to say stop at the White Coast so you can have a steam today, and tomorrow stop at the Church so you can have a job at the DMZ. I apologize, but why didn't anyone bring up the question that when these facilities were built, they all had a main dam to meet technological needs and reserve power. The main dam is the Lobush dam, now it is said that these pipes, which currently do not know how they flow, these pumps, which do not know how they stole. In 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, it was decided that we were far away from there and expensive, so let's take the drinking water. I'm not saying that the business is bad, that he took drinking water, but since he needed technological rather than drinking water, he could have kept these plants or had his own drilling. On the other hand, imagine that we have a city where there is a canned factory, which has a beer factory, food products, it can't have industrial water, and it may not have its own water source. It is easy to say: business goes on its own power supply, but not everywhere is possible, not everywhere there is, somewhere has to be the waitout and alienation does not work in two hours. On the other hand, citizens must take priority. Always in the first place, but this has happened in the years, hasn't happened in the last three years. At least I didn't see anyone pierce the pipes on purpose. You were talking about forensics. What kind of zoologist, geologist, hydrologist? Okay, you're judging him to be a hydrologist, we're assigning him. What does he know about biodiversity? It's bad again. I apologize very much, it must be an administrator. Aren't all of them currently there, aren't they just such hydrologists, zoologists, people specialists? If I allow myself as a minister to fire someone tomorrow, who, for example, is slightly pink, you will say: this is the man of the ministry, this is the most experienced man, and you have laid hands on him. Well, if they're all so experienced and it's a four-step form of control, how did it get to the minister to come up with a solution that turned out to be bad? Didn't the VK make plans? Didn't she give them to the Swimming Directorate? Didn't she check them out?! Doesn't BAS have a special institute for this purpose that gives predictions that approves and that validates?! He says to a ten-year forecast: that's how it happens, that's how it happens, that water can. All this goes through, goes through three directorates in the Ministry, through those people who know, competent, appointed, and finally comes to your desk and tells you: why didn't you bring it back? Why didn't you check one more time? If he will return everything and do it one more time, why does he need them? Where's the expert start? To be a minister, you have to be an expert on everything, otherwise because you have a lot of experts, their opinion doesn't apply. Last, if fifty people in the chain stood up and said, this thing could happen in the acceptable parameters, and you, signing it, are you guilty? Because now it turns out you're guilty. You sign it, it doesn't matter. They said they could. Well, maybe, but it's your fault. Okay, so you're doing the opposite. Then won't they say, "Well, all the people have graduated, habilitated individuals said, "Why exactly did you do the opposite?" Well, you don't have the right move! One day, where's our water? The next day, where is our job? We have to solve the problem right now. And I am sure that with this expert start, which has been sent there, we have two ministers who are taking care of it, and I am sure that the issue will be resolved, but it must be resolved with the consequences. Why did it come to this? It can be reached in a hundred more places and we have to go around all of them to see them. For the water reform, I was asked a question about the waste. I haven't stepped in yet, you're already asking me and making moratoriums. I'm sorry, but there's a Basel Convention. It is very nice to say: Bulgaria will close it, will not enter it, will it come out? Because we're 800,000. The tone's coming out. It's very nice to say, what are we doing with the trash? To which house exactly to stay and pile up in chambers for centuries. The whole of Europe collects junk, separates it. Even trash isn't the right word, the right term. He separates them and burns them as much as he can. The problem is not that they don't make piles, but only what can no longer be reworked, bury to be minimal. Everything else burns it, and the filters, the air that comes out?! It's not scary that it's gonna go through the chimney, it's the bad air that's gonna come out. We don't have that kind of power and we're burning shit, according to you. But to me, control is important: how it gets across the border, where it's deposited, how it's used, how it's controlled, and these plants that are going to burn it, do they have filters or not? At the moment, most of the junk you understand I use this term on purpose because you used it, three years later, they notify you of what they did to them. Maybe there should be a more restrictive regime. But then half the room will jump: but please, you are in the way of business. So there must be increased control, restrictive. Incoming: for example, the northern border is two points, two railways and one port, only from there can be entered. There's only one place in the land. This means a new center to control the entrance of junk and to spend it. But we can't close, we can't, we're bound, we're part of the European Union, then we can't export either. And we're moving out about 20 times right now, I think, more than they've been in. So before we make final decisions, I personally will not allow it, I will consult with experts, experts who know everything in detail. With regard to aids and opportunities to absorb funds from abroad. I'm the last person who's gonna stop or do anything to make that happen. If I have to, I'll ask for more people, if I have to, I'll want people to change. Everything that has to happen and can happen has my approval. I don't think I'm the one responsible for everything, and I'm the only one in the Ministry who has to do the job because, you see, other people couldn't do it. On the contrary, I delegate responsibilities to everyone, I'll delegate. There was a colleague who said about the waste. I apologize very much, but we in Pernik are currently collecting all the scrap from the country. If we at the moment in Pernik he has no problems and I think there will be no problems and now in the Stomanana, say that will not work, what do you whole industry do? And what does Bulgaria do when you say: this plant came, made an investment, allowed water use, but now we say: no. Is Bulgaria a good place to invest or not? They'll have to find water sources, but it doesn't work in two hours and it doesn't become imperative, they'll have to make investments, it's time. Everything is relative to itself. I will give you an example with one city: the city is powered through three districts by a dam, but the water is already of poor qualities and not always enough. In the city itself there is a beer factory that has built its own plumbing, received all its permissions and received wonderful water. At some point you say, "Okay, there's water here, it's not even used, we have to help the city." Okay, but the next thing you know, between power and population, what's important, the population?! Let's take all the plumbing to the factory and give it to the citizens. There's another angle. I try to be a lawyer, very often and as an arbitrator, you know, as President of the Commission, to be a little in the middle of seeing both sides, not to make rash decisions. Don't ask me for an answer: immediately we make a moratorium, don't ask for an answer: immediately we destroy all the waste, don't ask me for an answer: I cancel all the licenses or anything. My first job is to go meet, see what responsibilities are and how 100 people can line up and their signature doesn't apply to anything. How 100 institutions could line up, there was a Swimming Directorate because she responded, but it didn't matter what she thought, there was hydrology that answered, but it didn't matter what she said. Then who has an opinion? All of this needs to be cleaned up. Most of all, I have to turn to the expertise, because there are a lot of high-quality people who are fired, and there are a lot of people who are already offended and do not want to come back. They don't want you to kick him out once, now you're bringing him back. You're asking me why I accepted the mandate. That's why I accepted it, because I'm very well here, and I'm very good with you and I'm going to miss you very much. I picked up my name tag yesterday because it was my last meeting, at least to keep it as a souvenir. I don't want to leave you, but I have to. They can't give me a place on the list, need me and cause me to have problems, because I've been better off here. But agree that if I were on your list, and whatever you suggest, I will fulfill it because I am a part of you. I'm not part of you, I'm part of the United Patriarchs. I can't say no because they're gonna say this guy betrayed us. And I think every one of you understands that. I'll be the administrator, I want you to understand that. I will administer the process in the Ministry, assign tasks and seek personal responsibility, not be afraid to exchange portfolios, I hope to put the right people. I'm not going with the intention of being a broom, any kind of broom, blue, red, yellow, rematch. I'm not assigned any tasks in this direction. I want to do well. I'd like the term to pass normally, if I may. I want it to work and I want to help all my colleagues who are already engaged in the Pernik crisis. I would like to go around the country to see the dams for which the Ministry and, respectively, as a minister, I cannot get used to it yet, but I will answer so that I can tell the Prime Minister in advance: there, there and there are problems... we may be able to solve them, we may not be able to, but I will inform him in due time and not understand it afterwards. You were right about the last minute serving the problem and he had to solve it and run after the problems. It's not his fault, it's our fault, it's my fault. I will do my best to get into the Ministry's work very quickly, I will implement the current government's ruling majority programme. That's why I came to Parliament. I'll work with everyone, don't worry who has a problem. I don't promise to solve all the problems, but I will try to do the program that I have come here to do, which I have sworn here and I have given my word to participate in Parliament, to fulfill it. Thank you, everyone. I'm staying friends with everyone. Thank you for your five years! [[Applause from GERB and "United Patriarchs."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u99	Thank you, dear Minister. Colleagues, take a 30-minute break. At 12:30, we proceed with a second point. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u100	Dear Members of Parliament, we continue with the second point of the adopted Programme: SECOND VOICE OF THE LAWPROECTION FOR THE OIL ROOSE. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The bill was adopted in the first vote in 2019. Here you are, you have the floor, Mrs. Belova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u101	Mr President, honourable Members: On 16 April 2019, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 April 2019, adopted on the first vote, No 902 01-20, adopted by the Council of Ministers on 25 April 2019. Dear Mr. Chairman, please, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please vote on admission to the meeting of the National Assembly for persons: Chavdar Marinov
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u102	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the proposal for admission made in this House. Vote 91 MPs: 88, no objection, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Invite those admitted to the courtroom.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u103	I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. "Chapter 1" - General. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u104	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law and the text of the importer on the name of the division supported by the Commission. Vote 104 MPs: for 103, there is no abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u105	Under art. 1 has a proposal from the MP Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 1: Art. 1. This law governs public relations relating to: 1. the establishment and maintenance of a public national electronic register of rose producers, rose processors, plantations for the production of oil rose products and oil rose plantations; 2. the identification and cultivation of the plantations of oil rose; 3. buying the color from the oil rose; 4. the production and labelling of oil rose products; 5. the requirements for the sites for the production of oil rose products, for rose producers and rose processors; 6. Scientific services in the field of rose production, status and functions of the Oil Rose Advisory Council; 7. control of the activities of rose producers, rose processors and sites for the production of rose-color products. Under art. 2 has a proposal from the MP Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 2: Art. 2. (1) The purpose of the law is to protect the oil rose traditionally grown on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. (2) The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall conduct the state policy on the identification and cultivation of oil rose plantations and the support of rose production.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u106	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I will put two texts to the vote: the amendments proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 1; and the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 2. They voted 119 MPs: for 119, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u107	"Chapter 2" - Register of rose producers, rose producers and the production sites of rose-coloured products. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for the name of the subdivision: "Chapter 2" - Register of rose producers, rose producers, plantations for the production of rose-colored products and plantations. Under art. 3 has a proposal from the MP Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 3: Art. 3. The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry maintains on its website a public national electronic register of rose producers, rose processors, plantations for the production of rose oil products and plantations.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u108	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I shall put two texts to the vote: the version of the name of the division proposed by the Commission; and the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 3. They voted 116 MPs: 116, no opposition and no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u109	Under art. 4 has a proposal from the MP Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 4. Art. 4. (1) For entry in the register under art. 3 rose producers, rosoprocessors and owners of oil rose-colored products shall submit a single application in the municipal agricultural office at the permanent address of the natural person, respectively at the headquarters of the sole trader or legal person. (2) The model of the application under para. 1 shall be validated by the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry and published on the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. The application shall be submitted in person, by proxy, by electronic means under the terms and by the order of art. 5 and 22 of the Law on Electronic Governance or through a licensed postal operator. (3) In the application under para. 1 rose producers indicate: 1. the three names and permanent address of the natural person, respectively the name, seat and address of the management of the sole trader or legal person and EIC under the Commercial Register Act and the register of non-profit legal entities, or the identification number for the registration of persons registered in another Member State of the European Union, or in a State............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 2. the legal basis for the use of the property, the area and the location of the property, the number of the array and the physical block, the identification number and the ECATTE/address of the property; 3. the type of oil rose grown; 4. contact information.. e-mail address, telephone number, postal address and others that will be used. (4) To the application under para. 1 rose producers apply certified copies of: 1. a document of ownership or other legal basis for the use of the property; 2. document on the legal status of persons registered in a country outside the European Union; 3. a document on the legal status of persons registered under the legislation of a Member State of the European Union or of a Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area; 4. a document of origin of the seed material 5. notarized power of attorney when the application is submitted by an authorised person. (5) In the application under para. 1 the Rose Processors indicate: 1. the three names and permanent address of the natural person, respectively the name, seat and address of the management of the sole trader or legal person and EIC under the Commercial Register Act and the Register of Non-Profit Legal Entities, or an identification number for the registration of persons registered in another Member State of the European Union, or in a State party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area; 2. the legal basis for the use of the plant for the production of oil rose colour products; 3. contact information.. e-mail address, telephone number, postal address and others that will be used. (6) To the application under para. 1 Rosoprocessors shall apply certified copies of: 1. a document of ownership or other legal basis for the use of the plant for the production of oil rose colour products; 2. document on the legal status of persons registered in a country outside the European Union; 3. a document on the legal status of persons under the legislation of a Member State of the European Union or of a Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area; 4. notary certified power of attorney when the application is submitted by an authorised person. (7) In the application under para. 1 the owner of the plant for the production of oil rose products shall indicate: 1. the three names and permanent address of the natural person, respectively the name, seat and address of the management of the sole trader or the legal person 2. the address of the object; 3. the property document and the document by which the use of the site is made available to another person, where applicable; 4. the number and date of the authorisation for use in force under the current legal framework...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 5. the production area of the site and the volume of the storage premises; 6. the number and capacity of distillation and other plants and facilities for processing the colour of oil rose; 7. the types of oil rose colour products produced at the site; 8. contact information.. e-mail address, telephone number, postal address and others that will be used. (8) To the application under para. 1 The owner of the plant for the production of oil rose products shall apply certified copies of: 1. a document of ownership and the document by which the use of the site is made available to another person, where applicable; 2. document on the legal status of persons registered in a country outside the European Union; 3. a document on the legal status of persons under the legislation of a Member State of the European Union or of a Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area; 4. permission to use under art. 177, para. 2, respectively certificate of entry into service under art. 177, para. 3 of the Law on construction of the territory, or permission for construction of the building for business and secondary buildings under art. 41, para. 1 of the Law on Construction in the Area 5. technological documentation for the types of oil rose colour products produced at the site or a declaration that production is carried out according to national or branch standard; 6. notary certified power of attorney when the application is submitted by an authorised person. (9) Within 14 days of the date of submission of the single application under para. 1: 1. the Municipal Agriculture Office shall verify the information referred to in the application; 2. based on the result of the verification under point 2. 1 The Director of the respective Regional Directorate of Agriculture shall issue an order for entry in the register of the respective rosé producer, rosé processor or plant for the production of rose-color products or for the refusal; the order for refusal shall be notified and may be appealed under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. (10) In the case of incompleteness and/or inaccuracies in the documents presented, the authority under para. 9, p. 2 shall notify the applicant in writing and set a 10-day period for their removal as from the date of notification. In these cases, the term under para. 9 stops running. (11) In the event of failure of incompleteness and/or inaccuracies within the specified period, the authority under para. 9, p. 2 terminate the procedure of entry into the register and order refusal. The order for refusal shall be notified and may be appealed under the Administrative Procedure Code. (12) The district offices shall send by official means the orders issued under para. 9, p. 2 and para. 11 to the competent units of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, as well as to the respective municipal services of agriculture for entry in the register under art. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u110	Statements? Ms. Nencheva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u111	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Today we have the final vote on the texts on the Oil Rose Act. Dear Members of the Parliament, the production of roses and rose products is a specific sector. It is characteristic of specific areas in the country.. Karlovo, Kazanlak, Strelcha, which suggests that not all of us can know the characteristics of the sector, the problems of the employed in it, the difficulties with the trade in the final product. At the same time, the oil rose is the emblem and symbol of Bulgaria. With rose oil is identified our country, it is recognized on European and world markets. Last year, Rosa Damascen was recognised by UNESCO as a real cultural heritage for mankind. We can congratulate ourselves on the Rose Act after all. The path of the Rose Act is long and slow. Since 1994, that is, almost 30 years ago, texts are offered and aged in the National Assembly to benefit and care for rose producers. Well, we have a law, but we don't care about all the rose producers. I take the floor as a man living in the Rose Valley to present to you the voice and position of the little rose producers, because the voice of the great rose producers and rose processors has already been heard in working groups and committees. When creating texts of the Law did not take into account the position of all rose producers. The parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria (BSP for Bulgaria) made numerous meetings with rose producers and rose processors as soon as the Project Law was presented for the rose oil in its original version. The opinion of all those employed in the sector a year ago was that the texts in the Draft Law did nothing to help the rose production. We made a proposal after reading the Law on the basis of conversations with the people in the industry. We were looking for a ease of registration regime for rose producers together with local authorities, municipal agriculture committees. The proposals were corrupted and rejected. We asked the Minister of Agriculture about the situation in the market for rose oil in the country. It turns out that rose oil does not yet have its own code in general information on imports of essential oils, which makes it difficult to track down problems in trade. Undoubtedly, the Rose Act must have a law in which philosophy has vision, care and long-term perspective for this particular sector. No care, no perspective, no vision in it. Imagine the pristine idyllic painting of May in the Rose Valley, blooming roses and an enchanting fragrance. For the big producers, it's campaign, business, money. These are the principles of the liberal market and there is nothing wrong with that. But for the small producer, mostly young people who process two or three acres is a livelihood inherited over the years, a livelihood they hold, a livelihood from which they do not make business and big money. What they make in money is equal to notebooks and their children's clothes for school. It is humiliating to comment, but the elderly people who process roses rely on what they earn, which only buy firewood for the winter. These families don't do big business, but they do something very important. They are caring owners of the earth and the oil rose. They create in their children habits of hard work, as their parents created in them. They create a community that helps each other, a community that lives and makes the Rose Valley full-blooded. Taking care of just the small producers, the state once again proves the lack of responsibility and vision for the lives of its people. The small fields of rose plantations will be abandoned. Less and less things will connect young people to the area and more and more things will alienate them from their homes. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] It cannot be expected otherwise when the texts in the Law are subject to sanctions, penalties and fines, when opposition and opposition between small and large rose producers are laid down in the Law. My appeal to the little rose producers is not to give up the preservation of rose production. The salvation... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Two minutes. Salvation goes through unification or cooperation...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u112	Please, you've exceeded your time considerably, complete. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u113	Two seconds. [[Noise and lines.]] ...and through a lot of hardships.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u114	Thank you. [[The speaker continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u115	Wait a minute!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u116	I'm sorry, but I've given more than thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u117	What's the big deal?! He can't finish a sentence. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u118	Please! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I understand, but still.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u119	I'm only going to ask you two sentences to say.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u120	Okay, finish the thought, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u121	Knowing the people of my Karlov region, I trust that they will not give up despite the system, despite the restrictions imposed, and will cope together. Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Karlov region in May, we are hospitable. You will see with your eyes the beauty of the whole year's hard work for people. I hope you have eyes and political will to see the minuses of the Law, because at this point shortsightedness is strongly expressed in this sector, or at least in part of it. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u122	- What's the line? We continue with the speeches. You have the floor, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u123	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I have not heard our proposal presented, at least read it, so I would like to briefly say what we propose in the Rose Act, other than the texts voted on in the Commission. Firstly, I would like to say that we welcome such a law. Secondly, a register of rose producers is needed. For rosoprocessors, such a register exists anyway, as they carry out their activities in regulations that enable capacity to be known and the possibilities for processing rose oil, but the rose producers are an empty sheet.. absolutely no one in the country has any idea how many are in number, how their distribution of small, medium and large. The only thing you can find in the Agricultural Report of the Ministry is 40. 45 000 acres of land that are processed with an oil rose, but may be more because there are other publications of branch organizations that say there are 60. I mean, a register should, but what's offered is out of the question, especially for the little rose producers. In order to register, they must go to the municipal office, have a set of documents and, respectively, based on this set of documents, and then check the municipal office, to receive their order that they are registered rose producers. This is an extreme administrative burden that will create a problem, because especially for elderly people or families with one, two acres will be a difficulty to be able to implement this registration. We offer the following: collecting information about who are the rose producers, on what areas, how many are these areas that are being processed, what sort of structure there is to be made by the municipal services. In these committees to participate the mayor, because he knows exactly who is involved in this activity and to be registered by the municipal services. Agree that only 23 are the municipalities where an oil rose is grown. What is the problem with making the initial registration with the structures of the Ministry of Agriculture, not just municipal services, the Executive Agency, which is related to this, to assess what is the type of rose that is being grown? Further in the texts and this is provided for. Quite another way and another philosophy we put into the proposal for a register, and we want everyone to be covered. Imagine a case where all the rose producers are not covered because they didn't understand or because they didn't have the opportunity to travel or make any registration in the municipal service. The texts of the Law state that they are subject to a penalty. First of all, they can't sell pink, which is ridiculous. You've produced something, you have no right to sell it because you're not registered. The sanctions are extremely high, up to 1000 BGN. in the event of a first violation. I thought our offer was reasonable. We've been debriefing it at the Agriculture Commission, no understanding. From now on, I'm telling you this way of registration won't last five months. It will not be five months, we will change the Law after it is seen that for example 50% of rose producers are not covered in the register. Then cases are created that cannot be resolved by the Ministry of Agriculture and cannot implement its policy in this area from the point of view of protecting the oil rose. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Is there a line? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u125	Prof. Bachvarova, thank you for taking the floor and disprove the claims of colleague Nencheva that the Law supports all major producers. As you said, the first objective of this new law is to count the rose producers. At the moment, we have no information on how many rose producers are, whether they are small, medium and large, and let alone, Ms. Nencheva, to create a law that supports large rose producers. If you had met the stenograms of the Committee on Agriculture, you would have seen that this was, at least in the last year, the most conservative bill. Many working groups were made with members of the Committee on Agriculture and Industry. At all meetings there were 95%, if memory serves me, representativeness of the rose producers, whether they are small, medium or large. Once again, we do not know how many they are at the moment, neither small nor medium, nor large. This law is fully supported by both the rose producers and the rose processors, I believe that by all the parliamentary groups as well. Yes, Professor Bachvarova's proposal on keeping the register was debated. There have been many proposals from your parliamentary group and many of them have been accepted. We also heard the opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. The Commission adopted a text that leads to an adequate register to count small, medium and large, so that at the moment it is said that the Law is proposed for the benefit of small or large, at least it is not serious.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u126	Thank you. Another line? I won't. It's a hole. You have the floor, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u127	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Registered farmers who receive European funds are known to have a register, the areas they process and the subsidies they receive, but they are few. The large number is the small ones with one or two acres, for them there is no information. To expose them to this horror and each one of them to go to the municipal office to present legal grounds, the type of rose grown, contact information, e-mail address, and so on to the application to be submitted seems to me to be something that is impossible to carry out by them. My concern is that this register will not be complete because small rose producers will not have the opportunity or will not even have understood that this register is being made and they are obliged to join it. Why should this register not make it the municipal office or the ministry's services, provided that, once the documents are submitted, as provided for in the texts of the Law, the municipal office will go to check whether this is true? Why don't we make sure that the municipal services themselves go around every locality, the municipalities are only 23 more and no less, and they say that Ivan Draganov has two acres, there are roses. Either way, this process will last for one year, as the Minister's decree is further visible, one year will be the process of registration. You'll have to agree that there's gonna be a problem. This is not an excise commodity such as tobacco to make requirements that cannot be reached by producers of pink color in Bulgaria. Otherwise for the rose processors I do not worry, they have enough opportunity to react and do their work in time, in view of the deadlines that have been submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u128	Thank you. Any other speeches? You have the floor, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u129	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I take the floor in terms of what is currently being offered to us, and it is precisely the introduction of this register for rose producers. If we read in detail the texts that are offered to us in art. 4, we will see another administrative burden, which is attached to the rose producers, who I am convinced that a large part of them - Mrs. Bachvarova said it, but I will repeat it - will not be able to submit the relevant required documents. One of the required documents, which are inserted and which are obliged to present, are contracts with the Rose Processors. I do not know how much this issue was discussed during the working committees, but I come out of the opinion of the small rose producers in Strelcha when the protests were in 2018. Then everyone pointed out as a major problem the lack of opportunities to conclude such preliminary contracts with processors. Their great fear is by concluding such preliminary contracts that they will not subsequently realize their production cost-effectively enough. So the way you introduce the requirements for this register, with these requirements you want under art. 10 to have contracts presented, I do not see how you give the small ones the opportunity to want to be in this register. For me, this Oil Rose Act will really regulate relations relating to the production of pink colour in the territory of these 23 municipalities, yes, indeed, but will not ease the small rose producers, for whom this is a livelihood that is not related to the earning of funds, but a livelihood that has been for centuries, a livelihood that is passed on by inheritance, and it is important for them to maintain it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. Are there any lines? Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. We are going to vote on Professor Bachvarova's unsupported proposal, but read it first.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u131	I introduce you to the Commission's unsupported proposal of the MP Prof. Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs: Art. 4 is amended as follows: Art. 4 (1) The register referred to in Article 4 (1) 3 contains details of the three names, ID number or personal number and the permanent address, and of the legal persons................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (2) The entry of rose producers, rose processors and objects for the production of oil rose products in the register shall be made on the basis of registration by municipal agricultural services. (3) Except at the request of the persons, the registration by the municipal agricultural services shall also be carried out on lists presented by the mayors of the settlements. In any case, municipal agricultural services shall update annually, by 31 July, the registration data. (4) The order to enter the register under art. 3 and its conduct, and the procedure for registration by the municipal agricultural services shall be determined by a regulation of the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u132	This was the text of Professor Bachvarova's proposal, which she defended to you. Now I'm going to put it to the vote. They voted 115 MPs: 47, against 25, abstention 43. The offer is not accepted. I am now putting to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 4. They voted 105 MPs: 82, against 2, abstention 21. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u133	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 5. Art. 5. (1) In the register referred to in art. 3 Municipal Agriculture Services shall record: 1. for rose producers: (a) the registration number and the date of entry; (b) the three names and permanent address of the natural person, respectively the name, seat and address of the sole trader or the legal person and the EIC under the Commercial Register Act and the register of non-profit legal entities, or an identification number for the registration of persons registered in another Member State of the European Union, or in a State of the Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area; (c) the legal basis for the use of the property, the area and the location of the property, the number of the array and the physical block, the identification number and the ECATTE/address of the property; (d) the type of oil rose; (e) the quantities of the colour produced (s) where applicable; (f) the information referred to in art. 10, para. 2, p. 1, 3 and 6; 2. for rose processors: (a) the registration number and the date of entry; (b) the three names and permanent address of the natural person, respectively the name, seat and address of the sole trader or the legal person and the EIC under the Commercial Register Act and the register of non-profit legal entities, or an identification number for the registration of persons registered in another Member State of the European Union, or in a State of the Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area; (c) the legal basis for the use of the plant for the production of oil rose colour products; (d) the type of oil rose; (e) the quantities of processed colour (s) where applicable; (f) the information referred to in art. 10, para. 2, p. 1, 3 and 6; 3. for objects producing oil rose products: (a) the registration number and the date of entry; (b) the address of the site; (c) the property document and the document by which the use of the site is made available to another person, where applicable; (d) the three names and the permanent address of the natural person, respectively the name, seat and address of the sole trader or the legal person (e) the production area of the site and the volume of storage premises; (f) the number and capacity of distillation and other plants and facilities for processing oil rose colour; (g) the types of oil rose colour products produced at the site; (h) the authorisation number under art. 177, para. 2 of the certificate of entry into service under art. 2 respectively. 177, para. 3 of the Law on Construction in the Area, or of the Building Authorization for Commercial and Secondary Buildings under art. 41, para. 1 of the Law on Construction in the Area; 4. for plantations of oil rose: (a) the registration number and the date of entry; (b) the number and date of the consolidated protocol for the identification of the area with oil rose plantations, respectively of the record of the location and area of the root crops; (c) the three names and permanent address of the natural person, respectively the name, seat and address of the sole trader or the legal person who owns the plant; (d) the area and the location of the property. The number of the array and the physical block, the identification number and the ECATTE/address of the property; (e) the type of oil rose. (2) The information under para. 1, t. 1 letter (e) and (f) 2 letters (e) and (e) shall be entered in the register by service on the basis of the declarations lodged by the rosographers and the rosographers under art. Art. 13 and art. 14. (3) The entry in the register under art. 3 of the oil rose plantations shall be carried out by the respective municipal agriculture services on the basis of the data from the constant protocols for the identification of the areas with oil rose plantations and the records of the location and area of the cultivated plants. (4) The information in the register referred to in art. 3 shall be published in compliance with commercial secrecy and the Personal Data Protection Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u134	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 5. They voted 93 MPs: 90, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u135	Under art. 6 has a proposal from the MP Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 6: Art. 6. (1) Within 10 days of the entry into the register under art. 3 The Municipal Agriculture Office shall issue to the applicant a model certificate approved by the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. The certificate is timeless and no state fee is due to it. (2) The certificate of entry in the register shall be personal and shall not be transferable. (3) Any person entered in the register may request the removal of errors made in the circumstances recorded. (4) The entries in the register under art. 3 persons are obliged to declare to the respective municipal agriculture office any changes in the circumstances entered within 7 days of the change. The entry of the change shall be made under the terms and conditions of art. 4, para. 9.. 12.... 12.................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u136	Are there any speeches? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 6. 90 MPs voted: 86, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u137	Under art. 7 has a proposal from the National Representative Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs: "7" is out. "7" is out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 7. Art. 7. (1) A rose producer, rose processor or plant for the production of oil rose products shall be written off from the register under art. 3 on the basis of an order from the Director of the Regional Directorate for Agriculture concerned: 1. upon application by the rose producer, the rose processor or the owner of an object for the production of oil rose colour products; 2. in the event of the death of the natural person or at the time of placing him under suspension; 3. upon deletion of the sole trader or termination of the legal person; 4. where, as a result of a change of circumstances, it does not meet the regulatory requirements for carrying out the activity; 5. where, within 12 months prior to the date of issue of the write-off order, two or more acts of a competent authority have been found to be infringements of a regulatory or general administrative act carried out in the exercise of the activity for which it is entered into the register; 6. where the person by judicial or administrative order has been prohibited from carrying out the activity for which he has been entered in the register for the period of prohibition. (2) No applications for entry shall be considered in the register submitted by persons written off due to circumstances under para. 1, t. 5, within one year of the entry into force of the write-off order. In case of re-entry or subsequent write-off from the register, applications for entry shall not be considered for a period of two years after the entry into force of the write-off order.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u138	Statements? There are no speeches. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Svetla Bachvarova. They voted 93 MPs: 27, against 18, abstention 48. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 7. Vote 94 MPs: 78 against 1, abstention 15. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u139	"Chapter 3 "Creating plantations from the "Rose." There is a proposal from the MP Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs: In Chapter 3, the name is hereby amended as follows: The Commission does not support the proposal. "Chapter 3 " Identification of areas with plantations of a rose and cultivation of plantations of a rose.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u140	Statements? I can't see. I will put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Svetla Bachvarova. 97 MPs voted: 29, Against 36, abstention 32. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the version proposed by the Commission for the name of the division. Vote 88 MPs: for 73, against 1, abstention 14. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u141	Under art. 8 has a proposal from the MP Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Paragraph 8 2 is amended as The production of seed material shall be carried out in compliance with technological instructions drawn up by the Institute of Rose and Essential Oil Cultures at the Agricultural Academy and established by the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the importer's proposal and propose the following version of art. 8. Art. 8. (1) Plantations of oil roses shall be created from certified seeding material which complies with the requirements of the Law on sowing and planting material. (2) Good farming practices in accordance with the biological requirements for the species Rosa Damascena Mill and Rosa alba L. shall be applied to growing oil rose.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u142	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. They voted 93 MPs: 18, against 31, abstention 44. The offer is not accepted. I am now putting to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 8. They voted 97 MPs: 78, none, abstention 19. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u143	Under art. 9 has a proposal from the National Representative Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs: "9" is out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 9. Art. 9. (1) By 31 March each year, rose producers shall notify the respective municipal agriculture office of the newly established and/or eradicated plants of oil rose during the last 12 months. The Municipal Agriculture Office shall send the information received to the Executive Agency by variety testing, acrobation and seed control and the relevant competent unit in the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. (2) The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry or officials authorised by him by order shall appoint committees to carry out the identification of areas with newly born oil rose plantations. The committees shall include representatives of the Executive Agency by variety testing, acrobation and seed control, the Institute of Rose and Essential Fat Cultures and representatives of the respective Regional Directorate of Agriculture. (3) The identification of the areas with newly planted plantations of the oil rose shall be carried out in the fenofase flowering after an on-site inspection carried out in the presence of the owner or his representative. (4) For the result of the verification under para. 3 The relevant committee shall draw up a consolidated report on a template containing information on the area and location of the plantations and type of oil rose. The minutes shall be served on the owner and on all members of the committee. The Protocol is an official document certifying the type of oil rose. (5) Outside the cases under para. 1 identification of areas with oil rose plantations may be carried out on the basis of an application from the respective owner or rose producer submitted to the municipal agriculture office at the location of the plantations. The identification shall be carried out in accordance with para. 2... 4.............................................................. (6) Municipal Agriculture Services shall carry out on-the-spot checks all year round for the establishment of eradicated plantations of oil roses. The checks shall be carried out by a committee designated by an order of the Director of the Regional Directorate of Agriculture concerned. (7) For the result of the verification under para. 6 The Commission shall draw up a consolidated report containing information on the location and area of the plantings eradicated. The minutes shall be issued in two copies by one for the owner and for the municipal agriculture office. (8) The producers shall keep records of the origin of the seed material and the protocols under para. 4 and 7 for a period of 5 years.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u144	I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. They voted 106 MPs: 28 against 35, abstention 43. The offer is not accepted. I am now putting to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 9. Vote 100 MPs: 82 against 13, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u145	"Chapter 4" Buying a color from a very good rose. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. Under art. 10 has a proposal from the MP Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 10 the following amendments shall be made: 1. para. One and two down. 2. para. 3 and 4 become respectively. 1 and 2. 3. para. 5 becomes para. 3, as in t. 4... is The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 10: Art. 10. (1) The buying of a colour from an oil rose shall be carried out on the basis of a written contract concluded between entered in the register under art. 3 rose producers and rose processors. (2) The Treaties under para. 1 contain: 1. identification of the parties; 2. term of the contract; 3. number and date of the certificates of entry in the register under art. 3 of the Contracting Parties; 4. area and location of the property - number of the array and physical block, identification number and ECATTE/address of the property; 5. type of oil rose; 6. estimated quantity of purchased colour from oil rose; 7. price and period of payment. (3) The buying of a colour of oil rose shall be made from entered in the register under art. 3 rosoprocessors in: 1. sites for the production of oil rose products listed in the register under art. 3; 2. points for buying color from oil rose. (4) Every year by 10 April, the Rose Processors shall submit to the mayor of the municipality information on the number, location and working time of the points of purchase of a flower from an oil rose in the territory of the municipality. (5) Every year by 25 April the mayor of the municipality shall issue an order which shall include: 1. a list of rose producers; 2. number and location of the points for buying the color from the oil rose; 3. hourly periods for picking and buying a color from oil rose; 4. ban on picking and buying a color from an oil rose outside the period under point 4. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u146	Thank you. Statements? You have the floor, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u147	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! A proposal was made for an obligation to have a contract to buy a color of roses. This treaty is mandatory and from the point of view of the practices that exist at all in agriculture is something very good, but whether it is possible to happen. Because it is not the rose producers who will not want a contract, but the most often the strong side that the rosoucessors are those who are opposed to the conclusion of contracts because they have to carry out the activities they have to carry out and the resource they have to carry out and also have is strictly defined. When we have one overproduction, e.g. in a pink color, like two years ago, or the buying of a pink color in a short period of time, it is possible that there is no desire to conclude contracts. But it is our duty by law, which then materializes in sanctions. There's a few questions here. First, when is the contract signed? March April! Because we have to say how much pink color we're going to eventually sell this is a hypothesis until the pick-up or picking-up of pink color can have situations where the production program is not executed. Price and period of payment! It is very nice that the period of payment is immediately, but usually in such contracts, which are a type of preliminary contract for intent to conclude and quantities, prices are fixed or fixed during the buying-in period, and the quality is assessed accordingly. That is, this contract, in which we say time, areas, kind of roses and everything else, if not concluded, the rose producers are subject to sanctions. Besides, who would that sanction be for? How will it be established, for example, that the rose processor does not want to enter into a contract and the rose producer does? What will be this structure or that body that will say who decides to make the sanction? It seems to me that it is extremely thoughtless in this part of the proposal that has been made, is not working and will not work for the simple reason that the Rose Processors also own pink plantings. And there, how will contracts be concluded, can no one say with themselves? The large rose processors also have pink arrays. They must conclude with themselves contracts with prices and payment methods, which is also absurd. Besides, we'll come to a situation that may have existed in the 1980s. The roses will be purchased from the small without a contract, but the rosecutters that have arrays will take into account the yields that have never been seen in the world, multiplied by two or three to justify the raw material they have. This is a practice that I say has been used in the 1980s in terms of statistics and now it will become the same instead of 300 kg of pink yield will write that they have 600 kg, because they think the year is very good. I mean, it's an articulation that no one needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u148	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the division. Vote 97 MPs: 70 against 11, abstention 16. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. They voted 96 MPs: 23, against 32, abstention 41. The offer is not accepted. I am now putting to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 10. They voted 98 MPs: 77, against 2, abstention 19. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u149	Proposal from the National Representative Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs: The Commission shall in principle support the proposal, which shall be reflected in its systematic place in art. 16. "Chapter Five " Production and labelling of rose products. Requirements for rose processors and objects for the production of rose petals. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for the name of the subdivision: "Chapter Five " Production and labelling of rose-colored products. Requirements for objects for the production of oil rose products, rose producers and rose processors. Section I "Manufacture and labelling of products of Rose." The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for the name of the subdivision: "Department I.. Production and labelling of products of the color of The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 11: Art. 11. (1) The production of oil rose products shall be carried out by persons entered in the register under art. 3. (2) The production of oil rose products shall be carried out according to national or branch standards or developed by the rosoprocessor technology documentation for the different types of products. (3) The organic production of oil rose products shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of Council Regulation (EC) No 834/2007 of 28 June 2007 on organic production and labelling of organic products and repealing Regulation (EEC) No 2092/91 (OJ L 189/1 of 20 July 2007.), Commission Regulation (EC) No 889/2008 of 5 September 2008 laying down detailed rules for the implementation of Council Regulation (EC) No 834/2007 on organic production and labelling of organic products with regard to organic production, labelling and control (OJ L 250/1 of 18 September 2008.), of the Law on the Implementation of the Common Organisation of the Markets in Agricultural Products of the European Union and of the Regulation under art. 17, para. 1 of the same law. (4) The production, labelling and control of products with a protected geographical indication "Bulgarian rose oil' (Bulgarian rozovo maslo) (PGI) shall be carried out in accordance with the requirements of Regulation (EU) No 1151/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 November 2012 on quality schemes for agricultural products and foodstuffs (OJ L 343/1 of 2012.), of Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1020/2014 of 25 September 2014 entering a name in the register of protected designations of origin and protected geographical indications (Bulgarian rose oil (Bulgarian rosovo maslo) (PGI) (OJ L 283/31 of 2014).), hereinafter referred to as the Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1020 (2014), of the Law implementing the common organisation of the markets in agricultural products of the European Union and of the regulations issued on the basis of art. 17, para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 25b of the same law. (5) Products with protected geographical indication "Bulgarian rose oil" (Bulgarian rosevo maslo) (PGI) shall be produced by producers entered in the register of producers of the product under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 3, p. 1 of the Law implementing the Common Organisation of Agricultural Markets of the European Union. (6) Rose producers may process their oil rose colour in oil rose colour production sites listed in the register under art. 3 which meet the requirements of art. 12. (7) The labelling and packaging of oil rose colour products shall comply with the applicable requirements of Regulation (EC) No 1272/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2008 on classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures, amending and repealing Directives 67/548/EEC and 1999/45/EC and amending Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 (OB, L 353/1 of 31 December 2008) and the Law on Protection against the Harmful Effects of Chemicals and Mixes. (8) The labelling and packaging of oil rose products may also apply the relevant requirements of: 1. ISO/TS 210:2015 Essential oils. General rules on packaging, conditioning and storage; 2. ISO/TS 211:2015 Essential oils. General rules on labelling and marking of packaging. (9) The labelling of oil rose products shall be carried out in a manner that facilitates their traceability, with the label necessarily containing: 1. name of the product; 2. composition; 3. batch number; 4. expiration date; 5. company logo and address of the manufacturer; 6. storage conditions. (10) The rosin processor in which the oil rose colour product is produced shall issue a guarantee of purity and naturality of the product. (11) Where oil rose products are used for food production, the requirements of the Food Act and its implementing regulations shall apply to the labelling. (12) Where products of oil rose colour are used for the manufacture of cosmetic products, medicinal products or medical devices, the requirements of the Health Act, the Act on medicinal products in human medicine, the Law on medical devices and the regulations governing their application shall apply to packaging and labelling. (13) It shall be prohibited to use the name "Bulgarian rose oil' (Bulgarian rose oil) (PGI) when presenting, labelling and/or advertising cosmetic products, chemicals and mixtures, medicinal products and medical devices, when in the composition of cosmetic products, chemicals and mixtures, medicinal products and medical devices are added rose oil produced by producers which are not listed in the register under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 3, p. 1 of the Law implementing the Common Organisation of Agricultural Markets of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u150	Statements? I can't see. I will put to the vote the following texts: the version proposed by the Commission for the name of the division of Chapter Five, the version proposed by the Commission for the name of the division of Section I and the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 11. Vote 104 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u151	"Department I-I-Decrets for the production of products of the colour of the rose." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 12: Art. 12. The processing of oil rose colour shall be carried out in an object for the production of oil rose colour products entered in the register under art. 3, which: 1. there is an effective permission to use under art. 177, para. 2, respectively certificate of entry into service under art. 177, para. 3 of the Law on construction of the territory, or permission for construction of the building for business and secondary buildings under art. 41, para. 1 of the Law on Construction in the Area; 2. have developed technological documentation for the types of oil rose colour products produced at the site or with a national or branch standard for the production of the product concerned; 3. has an installation/installations for the production of rose oil, pink in particular, pink absolute and/or pink water, or an installation and/or a facility for drying the colour of the oil rose. "Section IІ" "Requirements to the Roses." The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for the name of the subdivision: "Requirements to the Rosemakers and Rosemakers." The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 13: Art. 13. (1) By 30 April each year, rose producers shall submit to the Municipal Agriculture Office at the location of the plantings a declaration on a model for the contracts concluded for the current business year with rose processors for the realization of the oil rose colour produced. (2) By 31 July each year, rose producers shall submit to the municipal agriculture office at the location of the plantings a declaration on a model of the quantities produced and the quantities of oil rose colour produced on the contracts concluded for the current business year. Rose producers shall keep records of quantities produced and quantities of rose oil produced for a period of 5 years. (3) Declarations under para. 1 and 2 shall be submitted in person or by electronic proxy under the conditions and under the procedure of art. Art. 5 and art. 22 of the Law on Electronic Governance or through a licensed postal operator. (4) The samples of the declarations under para. 1 and 2 shall be validated by the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry and published on the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 14: Art. 14. (1) By 30 April each year, rose processors shall submit to the municipal agricultural office at the location of the plant for the production of oil rose colour products a model declaration for the contracts concluded for the current business year with rose producers for buying and/or processing of the oil rose colour. (2) By 31 July each year, the rosoprocessors shall submit to the Municipal Agriculture Office at the location of the plant for the production of oil rose colour products a declaration on a model for the quantities bought out and the quantities of processed oil rose colour of the contracts concluded for the current business year. Rosoprocessors shall keep records of quantities redeemed and quantities of processed oil rose colour for a period of 5 years. (3) Declarations under para. 1 and 2 shall be submitted in person, by proxy, electronically under the conditions and under the terms of art. Art. 5 and art. 22 of the Law on Electronic Governance or through a licensed postal operator. (4) The samples of the declarations under para. 1 and 2 shall be validated by the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry and published on the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 15.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-15.u152	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I will put to the vote the following texts: the text of the importer for the name of the division.. Section II; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 12; the version of the name of the subdivision proposed by the Commission for Section III; the version of the Commission for the text of art. 13; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 14; and the text of the importer supported by the Commission for art. 15. Vote 108 MPs: 108 against and abstention no. The proposals have been accepted. The next regular plenary session shall be on 16 January 2020 at 9.00 in accordance with the adopted Work Programme. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
