ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u1	Good afternoon, fellow Members. [[PHONE RINGING]] There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, in relation to the development of yesterday's plenary session and the cancellation of meetings of certain committees, I am proposing that the following points remain as fixed in the weekly agenda for today's plenary sitting only: 1. Voting of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Election Code with importers Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs of 17 August 2020, adopted on the first vote on 3 September 2020. seventh of yesterday, September 16, 2020, as the first item for today, as voted at the end of yesterday's meeting. 2. Second vote on the Draft Law on Supplement to the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2020 with an importer of the Council of Ministers on 3 September 2020, adopted on the first vote on 11 September 2020, as the second item for today's meeting. 3. Second vote on the Draft Law amending the State Social Security Budget Act for 2020 with an importer of the Council of Ministers on 3 September 2020, adopted on the first vote on 11 September 2020, as the third item for today's meeting. After their completion the weekly Work Programme of the National Assembly shall continue on the order of the points defined in it without specific fixing. Please, voting mode. Vote 128 MPs: 125, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, we continue with: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE SELECTED CODEX. Mrs. Alexandrova, you have the floor. [[The MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria are entering. Applause by GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! I am reporting a proposal to the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: screated § 5a: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 212, para. 1 the words "Selector" can be replaced by "Selector". The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u3	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Vote 138 MPs: 35 against 97, abstention 6. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u4	Under § 6 there is a proposal made by the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 6 is amended as follows: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (4) The acquisition, storage, programming and logistics of specialized voting devices shall be carried out by the Council of Ministers, which may use other specialized performers if necessary. (5) The testing and certification of specialized voting devices shall be carried out by the State Agency. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6, which shall become § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u5	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote first the unsupported proposal of Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Vote 159 MPs: 45 against 102, abstention 12. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 6, which shall become § 5. Vote 169 MPs: 121, against 46, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u6	Under § 7 there is a proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 7" is out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Tsipov under art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Anna Alexandrova under art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7, which shall become § 6: ........................................................... Article 3 is "Instruction of conformity of technical devices for machine-voting' Art. 213a. (1) The Central Election Commission shall provide technical equipment for machine voting by hiring or purchasing. (2) The State Agency of Electronic Management shall, jointly with the Bulgarian Institute of Standardization and the Bulgarian Institute of Metrology, certify the compliance of the type of technical device supplied for machine voting with the requirements of art. 213, para. 3 and the requirements of the technical specification according to a methodology established by the Chairman of the State Agency "Electron Management" and the Chairman of the Bulgarian Institute of Metrology and the Chairman of the Management Board of the Bulgarian Institute for Standardization. (3) The certification under para. 2 shall be carried out within 30 working days from the date of submission by the Central Election Commission of the technical units for machine voting.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u7	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 213a is written that: "State Agency " "E-Management" jointly with the Bulgarian Institute of Standardization and the Bulgarian Institute of Meteorology certify the conformity of the type of technical devices delivered. " Those institutes made it clear to the Legal Committee that they could not undertake such an obligation that they could not cope with the obligations so entrusted to them. In addition, the CEC is again burdened with non-military actions because they are taken away from the powers and from the responsibility in practice of the Council of Ministers and the executive power and are entrusted to the CEC. In this way, the electoral process will be seriously compromised, as the institutions themselves, which are entrusted by you in this law, cannot assume this responsibility. This shows once again how these amendments to the Election Code are adopted, which do not correspond to the real possibilities of the institutions, which will lead to chaos and confusion in the upcoming elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Vote 179 MPs: 72 against 95 abstentions 12. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version of § 7, which shall become § 6 of the Commission Report. Vote 184 MPs: 116 against 65 abstentions 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u10	Proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and group of MPs: A new §7 is being created. .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 215 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 the following amendments and additions are made: (a) in the introductory sentence after the words (b) c. 1 the words "including special machinery voting boxes' and the comma before them shall be deleted. 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: On the day before the election day, the selection committee, which produces voting with machines, receives from the municipal administration and from the regional electoral committee the electoral papers and materials under para. 1, t. 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14, and: 1. special boxes for machine voting; 2. two technical devices and all other electoral papers and materials necessary for the engine vote, in a row determined by the Central Election Commission. 3. In para. 4 after the words. One, two, four, 14, is added, or under para. 1, t. 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 and para. 2, p. 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's and 1's and 1's.' The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u11	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova. Colleagues, while we vote, let me give you some information. At the request of the secretaries and vice-presidents of the parliamentary groups, there will be one more monitor soon below, so that the chairmen and vice-presidents can watch the vote, because I understand that it is difficult to monitor up on the monitor, it covers only the upper lines, so that this will be done soon. Vote 178 MPs: 69 against 100 abstentions 9. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u12	Proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and group of MPs: screated § 7a: 7a. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The first sentence of paragraph 2 of paragraph 2 shall be inserted after the words The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u13	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Vote 186 MPs: 75, against 98, abstention 13. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u14	Proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and group of MPs: screated § 7b: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and group of MPs: screated § 7c: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 230, para 3 after the words "al." In addition, paragraph 1 (a) is replaced by the following: If the vote is made by paper ballots, the words "including in machine voting' shall be replaced by "if the vote by paper ballots'. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and group of MPs: It's created §7d: 7d. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 236, para. 1 sentence third, after the word "vote', shall be added to or next to the machinery voting barrier. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u15	And to Mr. Veselinov to read the unsupported proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u16	Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs: A new § is being created...: I'm sorry, In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 238, para. 4 sentence first the words The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u17	You have the floor for speeches, colleagues. Here you go, Mr. Baichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u18	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The proposals we make in § 7, in fact, this is the basis for the changes to the Election Code that should have happened. However, you did not want to, namely, those changes that would facilitate the introduction of the machine voting and facilitate the legislator in the conduct of the current and future elections, would facilitate the administration in the implementation of the Law. There wouldn't be any wrong ballots, there would be no wrong protocols, there wouldn't be a crowd in the room again, or any other room. I'm sorry, but I urge you once again to reconsider your position and support us in this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Baichev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. We will vote in accordance with the proposals. Proposal of the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs for the establishment of § 7a. The Commission does not support the proposal. Vote 183 MPs: for 73, against 95, abstention 15.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u20	I ask for a re-vote that the opposition colleagues have not voted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u21	I'm asking for a re-vote. Vote 184 MPs: 73, Against 99, abstention 12. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs to create § 7b, which the Commission does not support. Vote 189 MPs: 79 against 96 abstentions 14. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for Cornelia Ninova's unsupported proposal to create a new § 7c, which the Commission does not support. Vote 178 MPs: 71, against 95, abstention 12. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs to create § 7d. Vote 183 MPs: 80, against 95, abstention 8. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 188 MPs: 23, against 72, abstention 93. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u22	According to § 8 the text of the importer, there is a proposal of the National Representative Hristian Mitev and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 8" is deleted. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and group of MPs: "Paragraph 8 is out." The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 8 be rejected. Statements? Mr. Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u23	Thank you, Madam President. Both § 8 and the next § 9 are an emblematic example of how to work in the Commission and in the National Assembly. And § 8 and § 9, Cornelia Ninova's proposals and a group of MPs are to dismiss them, to reject them. At the same time, the Commission does not support this proposal, but does support de facto the proposal to reject § 8 and § 9. This is an example of how to work on stubborn, unconstructive, only and only in order not to support a proposal that you actually support, but is given by the parliamentary group of BSP to know people and journalists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u24	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Ermenkov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u25	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As with respect to § 3 yesterday, we came to the absurd vote on a text, then to vote on its conflicting text, then to have to explain why we voted and what we voted, now this paragraph is the same. I would like to ask you, Members of the majority responsible: how will you vote against dropping this paragraph once and then vote once for dropping it and what is the difference in both cases? Or are we being very principled and supporting what the Commission is proposing, but not supporting what the opposition is proposing?! Way of working, way of hearing, way of making requests for dialogue. This dialogue that you want, so it won't work. People out there won't understand you, and your resignation will really be inevitable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u26	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mrs. Alexandrova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u27	Honourable Members, Madam President! I will be very brief in view of what the opposition has expressed, just to explain the way the report is written, this is from the vote in the Commission that has been received. That is, we did not receive a majority to vote on the text of an importer, so the Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 8 be rejected because we did not meet a majority. I do not know if any of you are technologically aware of this, but our text is not supported, with this in mind the report is absolutely correct.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u28	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. - What's the line? Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u29	I do not know what is not clear, but in § 8 it is clearly written: Underneath:..... does not support the The following sentence:.... does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 8 be rejected.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. It is important not to support the proposal of the BSP for Bulgaria. It is clear to all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u30	Mr. Popov, that's not what I understand, but... [[Noise and lines.]] A hole? There won't be. We will proceed with the vote, colleagues. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Christian Mitev and a group of MPs. Vote 171 MPs: 82 against 2, abstention 87. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Vote 188 MPs: 98 against 81 abstentions 9. The motion is accepted. [[Noise and lines:]] Yeah, yeah, that's right. [[Noise and lines.]] We are going to vote on the Commission proposal § 8 to be rejected. Vote 186 MPs: 93 against 86, abstention 7. The offer is not accepted. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u31	What do we do now?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u32	I ask for a re-vote, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u33	Re-vote, please. [[Noise and lines. Details to the side of the microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting:...... does not support the text of the importer and proposes § 8 to be How can I put this more clearly? You're in for it. [[Currently addressed to the MPs from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We're against it. How do I make this any clearer? [[(Laughter) Applause from all parliamentary groups.)]] How can I put this more clearly? This is our proposal, we can't vote...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u35	Don't yell at me! Where are you?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u36	I'm not yelling at you, I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u37	Mrs. Alexandrova, do not influence the House on how to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u38	I won't. Excuse me!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u39	Let each MP decide for himself. [[Noise and lines. There is a problem with some of the voting boards.]] We're waiting. Don't worry. We wait as long as possible for all our colleagues to vote. Vote 196 MPs: 95 against 96, abstention 5. The offer is not accepted. [[Noise and lines: "In groups, groups! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u40	In groups! In groups!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u41	Mrs. Alexandrova, come in... [[Loud noise and lines.]] Colleagues, if you keep quiet, everything will be easier. Show the vote in groups. For the procedure Mr. Ermenkov. Please be a little quiet in the hall! What procedure do you have, Mr. Ermenkov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u42	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, what comes with this second vote is simply evidence that the way to vote is not right. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u43	Is this the way it's supposed to be?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u44	Yes, in the manner of conduct, because you lead and you determine when, what, and how to vote, and therefore I address you. So far, whenever drafts have been read and there have been proposals that contradict what has been submitted by the Commission or accepted by the importer, what has been voted on and adopted as a proposal by the MP and a group of MPs and contradicts what has been adopted, inserted by the importer, is accepted and no longer voted on.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u45	He can't explain it...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u46	We've already voted for §8 once to be dropped. He's already out. What did we vote on one more time after that to reject it? We are now in the situation in which we have a § 8, which has dropped out, but is not rejected. What you're doing right now is nonsense. You're confusing the management of the entire election code process. We are already creating chaos in voting on the Election Code, imagine what chaos there will be during the elections themselves! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u47	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Mrs. Alexandrova, please proceed with the report. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Gyokov, in the manner of conduct. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u48	Dear Madam President, in the manner in which you are being led. What are we going to put in the Election Code? What are we gonna write down? Once § 8 was rejected, then it was not rejected. What will it say in the Election Code? Explain to the House so we know what will be written in the Election Code tomorrow. Will this § 8 be out of the Bill, or will it not be out of the Bill? In the vote, I could not understand, and I doubt anyone in this House understood what it was about.. We vote once, the paragraph is dropped, we vote next time....................................................................................... What will you write in the Election Code based on today's vote? Explain to the court.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u49	Mr. Gokov, you've tested me. Thank you. Mrs. Alexandrova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u50	Explain what it's gonna say...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u51	I'll explain in a minute. Come in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u52	Madam President, I don't think the BSP colleagues have understood. Explain to them that the vote, thanks to their nine votes, which voted together with GERB, passed the majority vote to understand everyone, not to play games. [[Private applause from OP and GERB.]] Nine people could have gone out and said, "The Machine didn't read me correctly, my vote is another one." "You are playing backstage again, otherwise you claim to be moral." [[Applause from OP and GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u53	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. [[Loud noise and lines.]] The way we were led, there was... Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u54	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! [[(Loud noise. Replies to the BSP for Bulgaria (Bulgaria) by the National Representative Julian Angelov. Noise and shout from OP.)]] Madam President, do you hear what this room says?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u55	Quiet, please, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u56	For the loudest colleagues who understand the least, let's explain. Paragraph 8 shall be voted on, which shall change the name of one chapter of the Election Code. In this paragraph, there are several proposals made for it to be dropped. By the way, one of them belongs to those screaming colleagues. The proposals are to drop the paragraph. One of Cornelia Ninova's proposals is accepted and the paragraph is dismissed, after which you put the same paragraph to the vote and it is adopted. It is therefore the case that two conflicting proposals have been adopted at the moment. According to one paragraph, the other paragraph remains. Therefore, I propose that we stop with the undivided sounds and propose a re-vote § 8 and that it be dismissed, as this was a consensual decision. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria and DPS]] Note that the reason for having it § 8 and dropping it is that it is related to the following paragraphs, according to which a new model is made, a new kind of choice for a Grand National Assembly. They were also rejected in the Commission so that it is most logical that this paragraph should be rejected. I ask those who very much cry not to interfere with others who are trying to create at least clarity in your otherwise mistaken Election Code. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.) Noise and lines from OP.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u57	Guys, I'm giving you five minutes off. Nobody leaves this room. Let me get this straight right now. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u58	Colleagues, please take your seats. Since we have voted twice on the text of the Commission, I propose that we now vote on the text by importer. I read you § 8: The title of chapter 15 is amended as follows: We are voting on the import text. Vote 191 MPs: for 83, against 108 abstentions there is no. The offer is not accepted. That's why the text is out of the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u59	Under § 9 there is a proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: The offer's off the table. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 9 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u60	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Voted 199 MPs: 103, against 85, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u61	Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs: A new § is being created...: I'm sorry, In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 261, para. 1, t. 3 is amended as follows: "3." a box for placing a sign of the "X" or "V" reflecting the will of the voter against which the name of the party, the coalition or the committee of call is written. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from MP Mustafa Karadayi, Hamid Hamid and Ahmed Ahmed Ahmedov. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs: A new § is being created...: I'm sorry, In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 262 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In the name "Prime for determining a number in the newsletter', the word "number' is replaced by "order'. 2. In para. 1 the words "Early numbers' shall be replaced by "Early order' and the words "Determined order number' shall be replaced by "Determined order'. 3. In para. 2 all over the word the number is replaced by the order. 4. In para. 3 the words "not" shall be filled in and "not" shall be deleted. 5. In para. 4 all over the The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs: A new § is being created...: I'm sorry, In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 265, para. 3, p. 1 words The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u62	Statements? Mr. Bogdanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u63	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members, especially on the left. Now is the time to correct your mistake from yesterday. You said you accepted and supported the idea of dropping the numbers in the ballot, you disagreed with the motives. I think that after yesterday we commented on the question that the motives are motives, but the proposal is accurate and clear.. we are talking about the way the ballot will look, how will the vote be voted in it.. there will be a box in which the corresponding sign will be placed, against it will be written the number of the party. Our other proposal is for the decision of the CEC instead of setting the order number, to determine the order. So be correct with your constituents and support the proposal. Let's stop manipulating, buying, corporate, ethnic and any other vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u64	- What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. Vote 192 MPs: 29, against 75, abstention 88. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the second proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. They voted 193 MPs: 30, against 76, abstention 87. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the third proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Vote 194 MPs: 30, against 76, abstention 88. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u65	Under paragraph 10, there is proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: In § 10, paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: 2 is finally a comma and the second sentence is added is deleted. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10, which shall become § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u66	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Vote 192 MPs: 85 against 99, abstention 8. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 10, which shall become § 7. They voted 195 MPs: 110, against 65, abstention 20. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u67	Under Paragraph 11, there is a proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: the following point is inserted after point 11 (Commission ..................................................... Art. 269 is amended as follows: Art. 269. In cases where, due to insurmountable external circumstances, the machine voting of one voting device proves impossible, the selection panel shall immediately notify the regional election commission and the Central Election Commission. Until the failure or replacement of the damaged voting device has been resolved, the vote shall continue on the other voting device. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u68	Thank you. Statements? Mr. Popov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u69	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! This proposal is related to the guaranteed possibility of yes, you have already accepted the alternative possibility of paper or machine, but this proposal, under the proposal you have accepted and created chaos in the Election Code, in my opinion, guarantees it to these people, to those voters who wish to vote by machine. And we have made it very clear that if there is a problem with one device in the selection committee and it cannot be voted on, it can immediately be notified to the senior committee concerned and another device can be provided by which voters can vote. If you are sincere in what you claimed yesterday that you wanted the introduction of the machine voting, then support this text because it also guarantees the possibility of machine voting for those voters who wish to vote by machine. Support this text to see if you really are sincere, or as we assume, machines will just be damaged most likely so that people can't vote with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u70	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Are there lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Vote 190 MPs: 92 against 93, abstention 5. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u71	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u72	Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Please, re-vote procedure. Dear Members of Parliament, really guarantee the opportunity for people to vote with a machine! That's the text. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u74	Don't comment. Thank you. I again put to the vote the proposal by the Commission of the Parliamentary Representative Cornelia Ninova. Vote 193 MPs: 89, against 101, abstention 3. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 8. Vote 184 MPs: 105, against 59, abstention 20. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u75	Proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and group of MPs: ##11a is being created: ..... 11a............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 270, para. The second sentence is amended as follows: The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u76	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Vote 190 MPs: 88 against 99, abstention 3. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u77	Under § 12, there is a proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: suppl. 12 is out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12, which shall become § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u78	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Vote 187 MPs: 83, against 96, abstention 8. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 12, which shall become § 9. Vote 186 MPs: 109, against 59, abstention 18. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u79	Proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and group of MPs: There's a new § 12: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 273 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 the words with the paper ballots and from the engine vote shall be deleted. 2. In para. 4 in the beginning are put the words. "In the case of a vote by paper ballots................................................................................................... The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u80	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Vote 188 MPs: 80 against 101, abstention 7. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u81	Under § 13 there is a proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: the following point is inserted after point 13 (Commission ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 275, para. 1, t. 7 is repealed. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13, which shall become § 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u82	Thank you. Statements? Mr. Zarkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u83	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! After a very serious chaos has been brought in regarding how to vote in paper or machine, we are now being offered a blow to the transparency of the elections because of art. 275 concerns the data contained in a protocol before opening the electoral box and allowing it to be subsequently checked that everything in the section was okay That the protocols need some simplification is true, and this has been noted in many reports of the Central Election Commission, but it cannot, under the cover of the need for simplification, hide important information. Art. 1 (2) (a) (ii) 275 states that a number and types of data are consistently recorded in the minutes. We are offered many of them to be cancelled or merged. For example, in order to be as specific as possible, it is currently required that the number of voters according to the pre-set electoral list and the number of voters listed in the supplementary pages of the electoral list, as possible, be entered in the minutes. We are now offered to mix these data in a way that, when you then look at the protocol, you will not know how many of these reflected people have been in the preliminary and how many have been added. That's how you do it with the null and void ballots. There are different types of invalid ballots, because what makes them invalid is different. And each one of them in the minutes in our current legislation must be reflected in a different place so that it can be made clear to the people of those who check afterwards, and to those who monitor the elections, exactly what happened in this election section, which has led to so many null and void ballots. Now all of this is mixed into one, and the information will be lost. And there's data that's just being erased from the protocols. Pretty sensitive data. For example, why do you no longer want to write the number of unused ballots? Don't you think it's important to know how many ballots have been taken into the section and how many have not been used? And what's more, why don't you want the number of ballots destroyed by the sectional election committee to be recorded on the record? Is it not important to know how many ballots have been destroyed by the Central Election Commission? In the Legal Committee, one of the few experts in an election process, which was nevertheless admitted, explained that this was a particularly delicate moment and it should be dealt with extremely responsibly. Nothing in this Election Code has been discussed and accountablely done, and it is back again. Instead of making the process more transparent, clearer and more secure, we constantly compromise it. And one more thing. In fact, these proposals will not even lead to simplification of the protocols. On the contrary, it'll probably complicate them. And the simplification of the protocols is the easiest thing to do with the introduction of a full machine vote, because then the machine will give you the data that is otherwise counted by hand. So again I turn to reason at least the protocols do not compromise!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u84	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Are there lines? The line, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Zarkov, from your entire statement I understand that this is a matter of one stone - two birds - the protocol is being simplified and you are being given one service victory. Yesterday we talked about who and how. However, we have heard from some of your representatives that you are calling for a veto on these texts on the text that the paper ballots are introducing. If we are going to make such calls, honourable Members, let us call for veto and for those texts which openly violate the Constitution, texts which deprive Bulgarian citizens of the right to vote, and texts which openly contradict the constitutionally guaranteed right for citizens to use their mother tongue, texts in violation of Directive 109 of the European Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u86	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. Another line? You have the floor, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u87	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Zarkov, my line to you is this: when you speak from here, I ask you as a respected lawyer to speak with arguments. Our proposals regarding simplification of the protocol are only and only in line with the remarks and proposals in the Central Election Commission Report. If I may, p. 10 they say: ? According to art. Article 275, Art. Article 330 434 of the Election Code ballots outside the Election Box shall be entered in separate rows in the Sectoral Protocol in which the number of unused ballots needs to be recorded. It should be stressed that the number of destroyed, the wronged and the three types of null ballots is negligible, therefore their entry in separate rows is unnecessary and only aggravates the sectional protocol without carrying any information. In addition, you have announced from here that we are also removing the destroyed ballots. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 8 of our proposal we unite the points: It's 8 o'clock. the total number of null and void ballots under art. 227, 228 and 265, para. 5, the wrong ballots and the newsletters destroyed by the sectary committee. Please speak truths from the stands. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. A hole, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u89	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear gentlemen replicating, I will try to be very clear, and whether they are true, and in order to assess whether something is true or not, honourable, there must also be certain knowledge regarding the Law and the electoral process, as well as should also be taken into account when reading the CEC reports, in view of what we want to assist the administration and what we want to help in the process itself. For example, when the CEC tells you that you can't and don't want to deal with the machines, you don't read their reports, but when the CEC tells you that they don't care to count the destroyed ballots, because, you see, it was too little, you then accept them. What if there's too many in the next election?! And will you find out if there are many or few, Madam President of the Legal Commission, since it will no longer be written in the minutes? How will you know if there are many or few? [[Noise and lines.]] Now, listen to me carefully! I'm really trying to be as benevolent as possible. There is a difference in whether the data are written consecutively in different rows or are entered in a bunch. Do you understand that when you collect them, you lose information? Is that clear or not clear? Finally, to complete this dispute, which is largely pointless. It is obvious, ladies and gentlemen, that you support these texts, that for many of them you are not even aware, because they are taken from various reports in various conversations that have been held, which you have no idea about and which you, as people who appear in elections, will tomorrow have to answer to your representatives on the sectional election committees and so on and so forth. But because the parliamentary process is not properly organised, including the work of the Legal Committee, because this debate has nowhere to be held, this is how it works. Believe me, it's happened before, most likely, unfortunately, it will happen again. We have warned you, we have warned you, and others, and you have seen such mistakes yourself, so the same laws change every few weeks. If tomorrow, the election code changes again the day after tomorrow, you'll see we'll talk again about what's protocol? Unfortunately, after this election process not two-thirds, three-quarters of the protocols will probably be wrong! The reason for this, according to Mr. Hamid, is in purposeful and purposeful creation of prerequisites for forgery. I cannot say that I do not agree with you, but there is another reason for not enough work, so to say, and knowledge on the subject. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u90	Mr. Zarkov, you publicly place twice in one speech the competence of the Members of the National Assembly. [[Noise and lines.]] Do you have a statement? Here you are, Mrs. Klisurska. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I must pay attention, Mr. Chenchev. I have to pay attention to you, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u91	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Allow me to read the report of the Central Election Commission and the recommendations they give in connection with this protocol to see how they are read, understood and whether these proposals have been made so as to meet the needs of the Central Election Commission. Because when Mrs. Alexandrova read part of the report, she did not read the most important: how to form the protocol? Let me say it. The errors made may be avoided by a change in the Election Code if the number of null ballots outside the electoral box is intended to be entered in only two rows in the sectional protocol, with the number of unused ballots entered in the first row and the number of ballots destroyed, incorrect and invalid ballots collected, as you suggest. You are currently uniting all types of wronged, unused and invalid ballots in a row. Do you remember when the results of paper and machine voting were to be transferred, how many mistakes were made in the gathering? Now there will be mistakes and repairs in every single protocol. Take a look at what you are going to vote on, because it will make the election process difficult, it will make the results difficult and their reporting as they are. I believe that what you are doing as a proposal is extremely inadequate and does not meet the need of the CEC as they have asked it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. Are there lines? Any other speeches? Mr. Ermenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u93	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Chairman! This proposal by the Commission, which is currently proposed to be voted on, is interesting. The dispute over how they will be recorded destroyed, wronged and invalid ballots is absolutely meaningless if there is no number of ballots that are taken to the election section. Because in the end all these numbers that exist in the protocols are to finally detect, not to get that an additional newsletter came from somewhere outside of the officially delivered ones. To know that the number of ballots that were used was wrong, it was null and void, it was destroyed, it was equal to the actual ballots, it was equal to the number of ballots delivered inside the section. Everything else that is being done creates a prerequisite for ambiguities, for doubts. As I understand it, the idea of the legislator should be precisely to dispel any doubts as to whether there are null and void ballots, but not as null and void, because they are confused, but as further brought into the section from somewhere that cannot be understood if they are dropped and that it must be clear how many ballots are brought into the section. I don't know why you're doing this.! I don't know why you're causing extra headaches to those you have. Why do you continue to take action that will create chaos in the electoral process? Why don't you listen to the people who want fair elections? I can't understand this, or are you some masochists? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u94	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Are there any lines? Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Vote 165 MPs: 76 against 86 abstentions 3. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the text of the importer for § 13, which becomes § 10. Vote 156 MPs: 86, against 68, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group. Mr. Kutev, you have the floor. [[Noise and lines. Part of the MPs on the right leave the room.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u95	Maybe we should wait for the coworkers to come out. By the way, guys, don't worry, we're all going out soon. [[Loud noise and lines.]] You're going in the right direction, I mean, you're going in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u96	Mr. Kutev, please. You went out to introduce us to...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u97	I'm waiting for the room to calm down.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u98	No, you don't have to wait. I gave you the floor, please continue! You're entering a dialogue that has nothing to do with...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u99	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! For the third month the protests continue on the streets of Sofia. [[(Reply from BSP for Bulgaria]] And the country. Why are the citizens protesting outside? Because they think corruption is destroying the country. Some believe that the justice system has been compromised. Most people think there's no justice. They think politicians lie to them and make fun of them. They are convinced that they live in severe and unjust inequalities. They can't live with the income they have. They can't live in the country where they were born and loved. They can't live with the health care system they have and many others. I justify their protests that they try to do in every way. They're trying to influence power with the methods they have. For the most part, they are fully democratic and described in the Constitution and in the laws. The main thing they want to say is that we're not going to go on like this. What the street is telling us right now is that this power is ridiculous, that it is corrupt and incompetent, and we will not allow it to continue in any way. Citizens want the most cleansing and democratic mechanism to exit the crisis and it is the elections. In this regard, I would like to draw your attention to one of the things that happened yesterday, because it is very revealing, some of these citizens entered the National Assembly building. By the way, they entered the lobby, which is absolutely accessible to citizens. By the way, the problem itself that citizens cannot enter the building of the National Assembly, i.e. the people, is, in my opinion, a serious problem for Bulgarian democracy and, by the way, for your governance. There is no way to rule with COVID 19 the fact that there is no people in the National Assembly, but only MPs or administration. This in itself crosses the limits of normality. And if it turns out that they couldn't even enter the lobby to get to the courthouse to file their papers, because they wouldn't allow them there, they only allowed one part of them, only they didn't allow the media, if citizens and media couldn't get to the lobby of the proceedings, that means that the government and the National Assembly had a problem. And now here I would like to draw your attention to a contradiction which definitely describes the degradation, to which you, personally on the right, have passed in two years. Yesterday we came to the absurd situation of the toilet of the National Assembly to be a political factor and to become a reason for discussion in the National Assembly. I would like to remind you that this child, who yesterday was not allowed to go to the toilet of the National Assembly, only two years ago at our meeting, at this National Assembly, was sitting inside the room with the same child with the same mothers, with the same people. Two years ago, when your power was inspired, these children and the disabled mothers, regardless of the scandals that we had with the President of the National Assembly, regardless of all the disputes we had, came to the Chamber of the National Assembly. The result of this was several adopted laws, several hundred million given to people with disabilities. Today they cannot reach the House of the National Assembly, members of GERB, because they do not have access! They don't have access for two reasons: first, physical access. There is no access because so far the cart cannot reach and because if tomorrow in this room a member of parliament with more serious disabilities than our colleague Mikhail Hristov, he will not be able to get his cart to the console. And for these people, the National Assembly is absolutely closed, only this is even the smaller problem. The bigger problem is that two years ago they had access to the House of the National Assembly, and now they have no access to the toilet of the National Assembly. There is no greater cynicism than leading political struggle to the physiological needs of protesters! There's nothing more you can do! There's no threshold for squeamishness that you can't fall under or at least I can't imagine it. I hope you don't imagine it, either, because you're probably gonna do it. What happened yesterday was an attempt at physical abuse over a group of extremely tormented citizens. And the one of you who didn't come down, and since I was always down there, none of you came down, he couldn't see it. You know that for sure, you must be aware of how poor and unhappy people are. Sure! And the result of this security is that you didn't allow the disabled child to go to the bathroom. I hope this is the last time in the National Assembly when the toilet of the National Assembly has become a political factor. I did everything I could. I talked to all the guards. I spoke to the head of security and the NSA in Parliament. I spoke to the President of the National Assembly. I put him in a room. We asked all of us at BSP for a break to solve the problem. Nothing could take you there! There was no force to explain to you that there are elementary physiology needs of citizens that you could not ban. And now the only thing we can ask for on behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP is the resignation of Tsveta Karayancheva now and immediately! There's nothing more he can do! [[Applause and cheering "Bravo!" by BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u100	Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova. Let's continue with the lyrics.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u101	Under Paragraph 14, there is a proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 14 is amended as follows: ......... 14......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Upon request of the Commission, The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal of the National Representative Christian Mitev under art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 14, which shall become § 11: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1, t. 2 the words "by candidate list" shall be deleted. 2. In para. 3 the word "supplied' is replaced by "supplied'. 3. In para. A sentence 2 is created: "The confirmed votes of the machine vote should be equal to the number of checks printed by the system.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Are there any speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put the following texts to the vote: first, I shall put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal by Parliament's representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. They voted 133 MPs: 57 against 73, abstention 3. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 14, which becomes § 11. Vote 139 MPs: 88, against 51, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Ms. Karayancheva.. a statement on behalf of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u103	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am a man who always tells the truth, and I try to be extremely correct, patient and listen to all the sides and opinions that come to me. Yesterday's situation, however, was a clear provocation for me! And today, from the parliamentary tribune, BSP colleagues are trying to make their own PR out of all of this. [[(Reply from BSP for Bulgaria]] I don't want to think, but I think I saw a young boy being used. The boy could have been at home because, given the situation we are in, the situation of Kovid, when all the flows of movement in parliament were divided between the MPs and the administration and the journalists, this child was under direct danger of infection with Kovid, because the people around him were not wearing masks. Everyone sees the footage of the situation in which the protesters were present with Mrs. Manolova, who is trying to take advantage of our system kills us to build a political career or to introduce a new impulse in building her image. For the last time, I will deal with disprove the lies spoken by both this tribune and colleagues from the BSP parliamentary group. I firmly state that I am not the person who deals with the crossing regime in the National Assembly building. On the orders of the Minister of Health... [[(Shouts from BSP for Bulgaria Resignation!]] Mr. Chairman, please bring order to the court! [[(Shouts and whistles from BSP for Bulgaria Resignation!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u104	Guys, you're going far!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u105	Order! Read the orders that are distributed to the parliamentary groups!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u106	Guys, you're going too far!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u107	I have an order by which, on the basis of the Minister of Health's order, I introduce certain restrictions, but there are no restrictions on entering the National Assembly. In this order the President does not decide who is to enter and who is not to enter, I respect: The access of outsiders to the meetings of the parliamentary committees shall be carried out on request by the committee concerned. Yesterday we received a letter from the mothers. In this letter, once they have the relevant justification, the following is finally written: "We propose an organised meeting to be held. " It is addressed first to all parliamentary groups, the chairmen of parliamentary groups, to the MPs who are not members of a parliamentary group. It is written back there: "We propose to organize a meeting in the parliament building between our representatives and representatives of the National Assembly at your discretion from September 16th to September 18th. " In conclusion, I would like to say about this letter... [[(Shouts from BSP for Bulgaria Resignation!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u108	Guys, don't go that far!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u109	I've always been in dialogue, but I say I won't talk to Maya Manolova and her people. He has normal access to the National Assembly's case-law. What Mr. Kutev said here is absolute suggestion! Because there are also people here who are suffering from Kovid, and it is our duty to protect both the administration and the MPs and the journalists. Therefore, access to the buildings of the National Assembly is carried out at the discretion of the committees to be held. Today there is a committee with Mr. Nikolov and he has identified branch organizations that will come and participate in this meeting. The result, Mr. Kutev, from two years ago, when there was no Kovid and when... [[(Shouts from BSP for Bulgaria Resign! Resignation!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u110	Colleagues! Colleagues, right... [[(Shouts from BSP for Bulgaria) (Shouting from BSP for Bulgaria) (Shouting from BSP for Bulgaria) (Shouting from BSP for Bulgaria)) (Shouting from BSP for Bulgaria) ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u111	...kids could walk in peacefully...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u112	...you wouldn't want to be treated like this!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u113	...in the National Assembly building without being threatened by infection with Kovid. In connection with these decisions, you yourself said that a lot of money has been given, that many problems have been solved, and now we also want there to be a solution to the problems. That is why I can say about GERB's parliamentary group that I have provided to Mrs. Angelova at the very moment when the letter came to all parliamentary groups, the letter was presented at 10.10 pm, and if you really wanted to solve these people's problems, you would not be making demonstrations from this tribune, bringing the subject of the toilet, which beats on Parliament's authority. Because when we get our own authority, no one can do it better than us! Yes, there are opportunities for people to come and enter their proposals. The doors of the National Assembly are never closed. There are rules in this National Assembly! It is an institution where there are rules, and they must be respected. [[Applause from GERB.]] And as for the footage being displayed, and the manipulations that are being done that the people who were inside and taken out of the NSO were being beaten, there is no such thing! As far as I know, the NSA has videos, so please treat everyone properly and respect the work of everyone. I will not allow the National Assembly to participate in provocations! If you want to lead the protests, yes, please, the protests are outside. [[(Shouts from BSP for Bulgaria Resign! Resignation!]] I will not resign myself! [[(Shouts from "BSP for Bulgaria": Whoo! (Screams from "BSP for Bulgaria")]] Just to ask: can anyone deny that for months the tents of the mothers in the system have been killing us! This is democratic Bulgaria! And here things happen by the rules. But when someone needs to be heard, everyone has the right to post a letter, to submit a request and to be invited by the MPs, as they asked in this letter, not this aggression and these provocations, with which a failed mayor tries to raise her rating! [[(Applause from GERB and shouts:]] And a parliamentary group that the protests don't recognize is trying to stick to them, because, you see, there's some revolution going on, and you're not going to be in the revolution! [[(Applause from GERB and OP, shouting from BSP for Bulgaria Resign! Resignation!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u115	It's a personal explanation! [[(Replications. Screams from BSP for Bulgaria Resign! Resignation!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u116	The way you're leading it? [[(SCREAMS RIGHT: (SCREAMS)]] You guys, don't bring the street in here! [[Heckling]] Yeah, I made a note. I made a note here. Another thing is that we don't hear from each other. Mr. Bojankov in the manner of conduct. [[Reply of National Representative Anton Kutev.]] Personal explanation of a statement, Mr. Kutev, I won't let you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u117	Mr. Chairman, my procedure is with you. You didn't make a single remark to Mrs Karayancheva about the tone she spoke to. During the entire declaration it raised the tone of the MPs and waved its finger at unacceptable given the topic of the declaration itself. [[Relations of the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva.]] [[Shouting and banging at the banks from GERB]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u118	Colleagues, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u119	The attitude, Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Karayancheva, of one power towards the most vulnerable, is a sign of the attitude and the whole state of all power. [[Booking at GERB banks.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u120	Mr. Bojankov! Mr. Bojankov!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u121	Your attitude is cruel and disgusting! That's what the footage showed. [[The speaker continues to speak on off microphones. Claps from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u122	Mr. Bojankov, can I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u123	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u124	But please don't go out of your way.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u125	Dear Mr. Chairman, I have repeatedly returned to this subject, if in a declaration someone is politically exporting these, is one thing. In a statement, I can use the reason for the parliamentary group's declaration and possibly make a bunch of horrors about each and every one of you. Just because something is said in the declaration doesn't mean that I don't have a right to a personal explanation and there's no such thing in the Rules. The Rules say that when you are personally and individually affected, you are entitled to a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u126	Speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u127	It's a statement. What's the difference? If it's in a line or in the back, it's broken your good name, don't you have the right?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u128	No, a statement...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u129	That's out of sanity. And to that I would just like to add: colleagues, bumping at the table is the favorite of the opposition at a time when the power is shaking, not yours. He's in your way! [[(Shouting, whistling by GERB:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u130	Mrs. Alexandrova, let's get back to work. Mr. Karadaye, in the manner of conduct, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is the way I conduct myself. Mr. Chairman, you allowed Mrs. Karayancheva's pathos from this tribune, which I don't think was in the normal frame. Ms. Karayancheva, you know very well that on September 3rd we said if you understand and understand what you are doing with your inaction, and in this case with your actions, you will resign. [[Heckling]] Since you have not reacted to this day, you do not submit a signal of compatibility or incompatibility here, for consideration in this House, the authority for the election and appointment of the leadership of the Central Election Commission in the National Assembly...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u132	Please excuse me, Mr. Karadayi.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u133	In that regard, we will...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u134	That's the way it is. [[(Shouts from BSP for Bulgaria Resignation!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u135	...advisable counseling...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u136	You can't address Mrs. Karayancheva. [[Reply: "This is the way you're holding it. "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u137	...for the resignation of the President of the National Assembly we will submit a project. Thank you. [[(Applause and screams from DPS and BSP for Bulgaria Bravo! Whoo!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u138	Proposal by MP Mustafa Karadayi, Hamid Hamid and Ahmed Ahmed Ahmedov: A new §... is being created: Art. OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 2 is amended as follows: The number of votes received for the applicant shall be no less than the regional electoral quota. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u139	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal by MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. Vote 157 MPs: 22, against 130, abstention 5. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u140	According to § 15 there is a proposal of the MP Christian Mitev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 15 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u141	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I will put to the vote the Commission's proposal for the rejection of § 15. Vote 158 MPs: 73, against 81, abstention 4. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u142	Dear Mr. President, if I may, a re-vote that some of my fellow Members have failed to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u143	Okay. I shall again put to the vote the Commission's motion to reject § 15. Vote 152 MPs: 81, against 68, abstention 3. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u144	According to § 16 there is a proposal of the MP Christian Mitev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 16 is amended as follows: ......... 16........................................... Chapter 15 is hereby established with the name: "Selections for MPs for the Grand National Assembly" with art. 306a " 306u': Section I It's a selective right. Principles Right to choose Art. 306a. The right to elect MPs for the Grand National Assembly have the Bulgarian citizens who meet the conditions of art. 42, para. 1 of the Constitution. Right to be elected Art. 306a'. The right to be elected as MPs for the Grand National Assembly have the Bulgarian citizens who meet the conditions of art. 65, para. 1 of the Constitution. Applicable provisions Art. 306b. The provisions of this Chapter and the relevant provisions of Sections IV, VII, VIII, IX, X, XI and XII of Chapter 15 shall apply to the elections for the People's Assembly. Section II It's an election system. Powers of the Central Election Commission. Allocation of mandates Mixed electoral system Art. 306b'. (1) Elections shall be produced by mixed electoral system. (2) Two hundred MPs shall be elected according to a proportional electoral system registered in multi-brand electoral regions with candidate lists of parties and coalitions. (3) Two hundred MPs shall be elected by majority electoral system in one-mandated electoral districts. Art. 306c. Each voter shall have one vote for the selection of candidate lists of parties or coalitions in a multi-mandated election area and one vote for the election of a majority candidate in a one-mandated election area. Powers of the Central Election Commission under this Chapter Art. 306c'. (1) The Central Election Commission shall: 1. determine the number of mandates in the multi-mandated electoral regions based on a uniform norm of representation for the whole country depending on the number of population according to data provided by the National Statistical Institute based on the results of the last census; 2. determine the number of one-mandated electoral regions, complying with the requirement that in a one-mandated region there can be no sections of different multi-manded electoral regions. One-sided regions have approximately the same population according to updated data from the National Statistical Institute; 3. establish and declare the registration of candidates which do not meet the requirements of art. 306f, para. 1, 2 or 5; 4. delete the registration when it is established that the applicant does not meet the conditions under art. 65, para. 1 of the Constitution, as well as where the signature to support the majority candidate does not meet the requirements of 306g′ para. 1; 5. announce the results of the elections and issue certificates to the elected MPs for the Grand National Assembly; 6. promulgation in the Official Journal. The results of the elections immediately after their announcement; 7. upon early termination of the authority of a Member of the National Assembly elected from a proportional list, declare as a Member of the National Assembly the next candidate in the respective candidate list. (2) The decisions of the Central Election Commission under para. 1, t. 1, 2, 3 and 4 may be appealed before the Supreme Administrative Court in accordance with Article 2. 58. Allocation of mandates Art. 306. The determination of the results of the vote for MPs for the Grand National Assembly shall be carried out according to the methodology set out in Annex No 6. Section III. Election districts. Number of mandates Determination of electoral regions Art. 306d' (1) For the production of elections in: 1. the proportional electoral system of the country is divided into 31 multi-mandated electoral regions, including three in the district of Sofia-city and two in the district of Plovdiv, and the other electoral regions coincide with the boundaries of the districts; 2. The majority electoral system the territory of the country is divided into 200 one-mandated electoral regions with approximately the same population, distributed in multi-manded electoral regions. 1. (2) The names, boundaries and numbering of the multi-mandated and one-mandated electoral regions shall be determined by the President of the Republic no later than 56 days before the election day. Determination of the number of mandates Art. 306e. (1) The Central Election Commission shall determine the number of mandates for each multi-mandated electoral region, as well as for the one-mandated electoral regions according to art. 306c′, para. 1, t. 1 and 2 no later than 55 days before the election day using the method of the largest remainder. (2) The number of mandates in a multi-mandated election area shall not be less than 3. (3) The number of one-mandated electoral regions within a multi-mandated electoral area shall be equal to the number of mandates for proportional distribution in the respective multi-mandated electoral area. Section IV. Registration of candidate lists and majority candidate Candidate lists and majority candidate Art. 306d'. (1) Parties and coalitions shall arrange candidates in candidate lists for multi-brand election districts. The candidates of the parties and coalitions shall be entered in the register of the candidate lists and registered with the number under which they are arranged on the candidate list. (2) Coalitions shall participate in the elections with a common candidate list in each individual multi-mandated election area. (3) The number of candidates in one candidate list may not exceed the double number of mandates in the multi-mandated election area. (4) Parties, coalitions and initiative committees may raise only one majority candidate in any one-sided election area. (5) The relevant provisions of Section V of Chapter 9 shall apply to the establishment of an initiative committee for the promotion of a majority candidate. Registration rules Art. 306f. (1) An applicant for a Member of the National Assembly may be proposed for registration by only one party or coalition in a multi-manded electoral area. (2) A majority candidate may be proposed for registration by only one party, coalition or initiative committee and only in one single election area. (3) Where a candidate for a Member of the National Assembly is registered in more than two multi-mandated electoral regions, the first one at the time of registration shall be valid. (4) Where a majority candidate is registered in more than one single election area, the first at the time of registration shall be valid. (5) A majority candidate promoted by one party, coalition or initiative committee may not be included on the candidate list of another party or coalition or promoted by another initiative committee. (6) Regional Election Commissions shall notify the Central Election Commission of registered candidates no later than 24 hours after the expiry of the registration period. Documents and period of registration Art. 306f'. (1) The registration of candidate lists and majority candidates shall be carried out by the regional electoral committees after the submission of: 1. a proposal by the party or the coalition with the names, the single civil number and the permanent address of the candidates; the proposal shall be signed by the persons representing the party or coalition or by the persons expressly authorised by them; 2. a proposal by the initiative committee with the names, the single civil number and the permanent address of the applicant; the proposal shall be signed by the person representing the initiative committee; 3. an application form declaration by each of the candidates that he agrees to be registered by the proposed party, coalition or initiative committee and that he meets the conditions under art. 65, para. 1 of the Constitution and under art. 306f, para. 1, 2 or 5; 4. power of attorney of persons authorised to represent the party or coalition before the Regional Election Commission in cases where the documents are submitted by authorised persons. (2) The registration of candidate lists and majority candidates in the regional election committees shall take place no later than 32 days before the election day. (3) The documents under para. 1 shall be entered in a separate register with a serial number. The order of entry of the documents shall determine the order of entry in the register of the Regional Election Commission. Reality of registration Art. 306g. (1) The Central Election Commission shall establish and declare the registrations carried out in violation of art. 306f, para. One, two or five. Decisions shall be announced without delay and the Regional Election Commission and the relevant candidates, parties, coalitions and initiative committees shall be notified. (2) The decisions under para. 1 may be appealed before the Supreme Administrative Court in accordance with Article 1. 58. List of voters supporting the registration of a majority candidate Art. 306g'. (1) A majority candidate shall be registered when his application is supported by at least one per cent, but not more than 1000, by voters with a permanent address on the territory of the electoral area. (2) A voter who supports the participation in the election of a majority candidate shall certify this with his signature before a member of the initiative committee. The voter shall indicate the names, the single civil number and his permanent address. Each voter can only participate in one list. When signing the list, the voter shall certify his identity. The list shall also be transmitted in structured electronic form, containing the names, the single civil number and the permanent address of the voters who have signed themselves in the order in which they are entered on the list. (3) The member of the initiative committee under para. 2 processes and provides personal data in compliance with the requirements for the protection of personal data and is responsible as an administrator within the meaning of art. 4 t. 7 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation) (OJ L 119/1 of 4 May 2016) , hereinafter referred to as the "Regulation (EU)'. (4) The list shall be transmitted to the Regional Election Commission together with the documents under art. 306f′, para. 1, t. 2 and 3 no later than 32 days before election day. Conditions for registration. Refusal of registration Art. 306z. (1) The Regional Election Commission shall verify whether the requirements of this Section are met and decide on the registration of the candidate lists and the majority candidates. (2) In the event of the finding of incompleteness or non-compliance, the Regional Election Commission shall give immediate instructions and a time limit for their removal. In the event that deficiencies or discrepancies are not resolved within the specified time limit, the Regional Election Commission shall refuse registration. (3) Refusal under para. 2 may be challenged before the Central Election Commission in accordance with Article 2. 73. (4) In the event of refusal of registration or of a declaration of invalidity of the registration of a candidate from a party's list or coalition, the party or coalition may, no later than 30 days before the election day, propose to register another candidate. (5) When any candidate on a registered candidate list of a party or coalition dies or becomes permanently unable to participate in the elections, the party or coalition may propose another candidate no later than 7 days before the election day. When any of the candidates on a registered candidate list of a party or coalition give up, the party or coalition may propose another candidate no later than 30 days before the election day. (6) In the cases under para. The 4 or 5 new candidate, on a proposal from the party or the coalition, occupies the released or last place on the candidate list, and in the second case, the remaining candidates are rearranged one place ahead. (7) Where the Regional Election Commission finds that a majority candidate is not supported by the required number of voters, its registration shall be deleted by a decision to be sent immediately to the initiative committee. Checking lists. Official deletion of registration Art. 306h' (1) Lists under art. 306g′, para. 2 in structured electronic form and in paper form shall be transmitted immediately by the Regional Election Commission to the respective territorial unit of the Directorate-General for Civic Registration and Administration at the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works for verification. (2) The territorial unit of the Directorate-General for Civic Registration and Administrative Service at the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works shall carry out the verification no later than 27 days before the election day. (3) For the result of the verification, the territorial unit of the Directorate-General for Civic Registration and Administration at the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works shall draw up a protocol in duplicate, one of which shall provide to the Regional Election Commission. The verification data shall be kept within 6 months of election production. (4) The Regional Election Commission shall establish the result for the lists under art. 306g' al. 2 on the basis of the inspection carried out by the territorial unit of the Directorate-General for Civic Registration and Administrative Service at the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. Upon request by the initiative committee, the Regional Election Commission shall provide it in writing with the data of the minutes under para. 3 and the established result for the lists submitted by the initiative committee under art. 306g', para. 2. (5) Where the regional or central election committee finds that a majority candidate is not supported by the required number of voters, its registration shall be deleted by a decision to be sent immediately to the initiative committee. Where the decision is taken by the Central Election Commission, it shall immediately send it to the Regional Election Commission, which shall immediately send it to the Initiative Committee. (6) The decision of the Regional Election Commission under para. 5 may be challenged before the Central Election Commission in accordance with Article 5. 73. (7) The decision of the Central Election Commission under para. 5 may be appealed before the Supreme Administrative Court in accordance with Article 5. 58. Reference to the list under art. 306g', para. 2 Art. 306th. The Regional Election Commission provides an opportunity for each voter...................................................................................................... 306g', para. 2 by a single civil number, including a free phone number. Section V. Voting notices Table of Contents Art. 306i'. (1) The vote shall be carried out with two joint ballots according to the model... for candidate lists of parties or coalitions and for majority candidates. (2) The ballot for candidate lists of parties or coalitions in the multi-mandated electoral regions of the front country shall contain: 1. the name and number of the election area; 2. the full and/or abridged name of the party or coalition referred to in its application for registration, and the abbreviation for a party shall be displayed with the 3. a box for placing a sign "X" or "V" reflecting the will of the voter, in which is written the consecutive number of the party and the coalition; 4. a box for placing a sign "X" or "V" reflecting the will of the voter, in which it is written "I do not support anyone. (3) The ballot for majority candidates in the one-mandated electoral regions of the front shall contain: 1. the name and number of the election area; 2. the full and/or abridged name of the party or coalition referred to in its application for registration, and the abbreviation for a party shall be displayed with the 3. a box for placing a sign "X" or "V" reflecting the will of the voter, in which is written the consecutive number of the party and the coalition, the majority candidate; 4. the names of the candidate for the National Assembly; 5. a box for placing a sign "X" or "V" reflecting the will of the voter, in which it is written "I do not support anyone. (4) The rows of individual parties, coalitions and initiative committees shall be separated from each other with a dense black horizontal line. (5) The name and number of the election area shall be indicated on the top row in the ballots. The props under para. 2 and 3 shall be written consecutively from left to right on a separate horizontal line for each party, coalition or initiative committee. In the voting ballot outside the country, the name and number of the electoral area shall be replaced by the text of the non-country voting newsletter. (6) On the back of the ballots two places shall be marked to place the seal of the relevant sectional election commission. (7) Outside the country is voted only with the ballot for parties and coalitions. Listing lots for the identification of a number in the ballots Art. 306k. (1) Another number in the ballot of parties and coalitions shall be determined by the Central Election Commission through lots held in the presence of party representatives and coalitions no later than 31 days before the election day. The draw of lots shall be made publicly and registered candidates and representatives of the mass media may also be present. The defined order number is the same for the whole country and for the vote outside the country. The result of the lot shall be announced by the Central Election Commission by a decision according to the order of art. 57, para. 2. In the case of the identity of parties and coalitions that registered candidate lists or majority candidates, the latter have the same number of ballots for candidate lists and majority candidates. The numbers assigned in order are the same for the whole country. (2) The number of majority candidates in the ballot under art. 306i', para. 3 follow the number of parties or coalitions according to the order of registration of the candidate by the respective regional election commission. (3) No number shall be entered in the ballot and no blank order shall be left for a party or coalition which has not registered a candidate list in the respective election area. (4) Parties and coalitions which have not registered candidate lists shall not participate in the lot and shall not be assigned a number and shall not be left blank in the ballot. Initiative committees which have not registered candidates shall not be assigned a number and shall not be left blank in the ballot. Section VI. Voting Application of Section VII of Chapter 15 Art. 306k'. For voting on the election day, the relevant provisions of Section VII of Chapter 15 and the provisions of this Section shall apply. Production of the vote by paper ballots Art. 306l. (1) Once it is admitted to the vote, the voter shall receive paper ballots for candidate lists of parties or coalitions and for majority candidates from a member of the selection election commission, which shall tear them off the ballot books immediately before their surrender and seal them with the seal of the committee. With the ballots received, the voter goes to the cab to vote. (2) There may be only one voter in the cab. (3) The voter shall vote by: 1. place in the box with the number of the party's chosen candidate list or coalition, the majority candidate sign of the party, the sign of the candidate, the name of the party, the name of the candidate, the name of the candidate, the name of the candidate, or the name of the party, the majority candidate, the name of the party, the name of the candidate, the name of the party, the name of the candidate, the name of the candidate, the name of the candidate, the name of the party, the name of the candidate, the name of the candidate, the name of 2. fold the ballots in a way that prevents the sign of a party, coalition or initiative committee from being seen; 3. get out of the cab and submit the folded ballots to a member of the committee. (4) The member of the committee shall verify whether the numbers on the ballots correspond to the numbers on the cobs and shall, in conformity, reprint the ballots with the Commission's seal and remove the numbers from the ballots to be placed in a separate box. (5) In the event of non-compliance, the ballot shall be declared invalid and this fact shall be noted on the ballot and in the section of the electoral list. The voter shall not be allowed to vote again. (6) Once the ballots have been reprinted, the voter shall place them in the electoral box, sign the electoral list, receive his documents back, including the certificate under art. 263, para. 1 sentence, second or second. Two sentence two, and he's leaving the room. Machine-vote Art. 306l'. In the case of a machine vote, the voter shall vote, marking in a uniform manner his vote for candidate list and/or majority candidates. Section VII. Counting of votes Application of Section VIII of Chapter 15 Art. 306m. For the census of votes, the relevant provisions of Section VIII of Chapter 15 and the provisions of this Section shall apply. Protocols of the Section Election Commission Art. 306m' (1) The Selection Election Committee shall establish the results of the paper ballots and of the engine vote and shall record them in voting protocols in the multi-mandated electoral area and in the single-mandated electoral area. (2) The minutes of the selection election commission shall be in three identical copies and shall be made on three-ply indigated paper. Protocols shall be protected by polygraphic protection, as determined by a decision of the Central Election Commission. (3) Before completing the minutes, drafts shall be drawn up which, in form and content, are identical to them. Actual and invalid voice Art. 306n (1) In establishing the results of the vote, one ballot shall correspond to one vote which may be valid or invalid. (2) The voice shall be valid when: 1. the ballot is based on the established template for the respective election area; 2. no special symbols, such as letters, digits or other characters, are listed in the newsletter; 3. the ballot contains two seals of the relevant selection election commission; 4. in only one of the voting boxes for a party, coalition or majority candidate, there is a sign on the list of the candidate with a blue color pen, expressed in a uniform way by the vote of the voter; 5. the sign of the voter "X" or "V" with a blue-colored pen goes outside the box of the candidate list or majority candidate concerned, but does not enter the box of another leaf or majority candidate; 6. in the newsletter there are deviations due to defects and errors in production or where mechanical damage or stains are present; 7. in the newsletter there is a sign in the box of blue color written in the box of "X" or "V" written in blue color, in the box of "I do not support anyone." (3) The voice shall be invalid when: 1. the ballot is not according to the established template for the respective election area; 2. special symbols, such as letters, digits or other characters, are entered in the newsletter; 3. the ballot does not contain two seals of the relevant sectional election commission; 4. in the newsletter is not marked by a sign "X" or "V" or a blue color pen, the vote of the voter; 5. the ballot does not mark the vote of the vote of the voter; 6. in the newsletter is a vote marked with a sign "X" or "V" or another sign and a pen writing with blue or other colour, for two or more candidate lists or with a sign "X" or "V" that affects more than one voting box and cannot be determined in a single voter's will. (4) The number of voters voted for a candidate list and for a majority candidate shall be equal to the number of ballots found in the ballot boxes respectively for a majority candidate and for a candidate list. Arrange ballots Art. 306n' (1) After opening the electoral box and removing them, the ballots shall be arranged in piles as follows: 1. a stack of ballots for candidate lists and for majority candidates who are not on the established template for the respective election area; 2. a stack of ballots for candidate lists and for majority candidates with special symbols, such as letters, figures or other signs; 3. a stack of ballots for candidate lists and for majority candidates on the established template in which the vote of the vote of the vote of the voter is not marked; 4. a stack of ballots for candidate lists and for majority candidates on the established model: (a) with a vote marked with a sign "X" or "V" or another sign and a pen writing with blue or other colour, for two or more candidate lists or for two or more majority candidates or with a sign "X" or "V" which affects more than one voting box and cannot be determined in a single voter's will; (b) in which it is not marked by the sign "X" or "V" and by a blue color pen, the vote of the voter, or (c) which do not contain two seals of the relevant sectary election commission; these ballots shall be destroyed with the inscription of the "destroyed" on each ballot; 5. a stack of ballots for candidate lists and for majority candidates on the established model: (a) with a vote marked with a sign of "X" or "V" and a blue-colored pen, for a candidate list and for a majority candidate; (b) which contain two seals of the relevant selection panel; 6. a stack of ballots for candidate lists and for majority candidates on the established model: (a) with a vote marked with a sign "X" or "V" and a blue color pen in the box "I do not support anyone; (b) which contain two seals of the relevant sectary electoral commission. (2) When the validity or invalidity of a vote is challenged, the case shall be described in a protocol following a decision of the Commission. The minutes shall be annexed to the minutes of the selection panel, marking on the back of the ballot the number of the decision, the ground for invalidity and signed by the President and the Registrar. Entry of data into the minutes Art. 306o (1) Following the opening of the electoral box and the counting of votes in the minutes of the sectary election commission shall be entered consecutively: 1. the number of ballot boxes for candidate lists and majority candidates; 2. the number of invalid votes; 3. the number of actual votes for candidate lists and for majority candidates; 4. the number of votes cast for each majority candidate; 5. the number of votes cast for each candidate list; 6. the number of actual votes under art. 306n', para. 1, t. point 6 (d) is replaced by the following: 7. the number of applications submitted, objections, complaints and decisions taken under them. (2) The data from the engine vote shall be added to the data from the minutes of the selection election commission under para. 1. (3) The data from the paper ballots and from the machine voting shall be aggregated, with the total number of votes voted by paper ballots and by the machine voting voters equal to the total number of ballots found in the voting boxes and the number of votes confirmed by the machine voting. Confirmed votes from the engine vote should be equal to the number of control receipts printed by the system. (4) The data under para. 1 shall be entered in the minutes with words and numbers. Signing the protocols. Correction Art. 306o' (1) The minutes of the selection panel after their establishment shall be signed by all members of the committee. Following the signing, the President declared the results of the vote on parties, coalitions and majority candidates. (2) Corrections to the minutes following their signature may be made before the results of the vote are announced. The amendment shall be signed by all the members of the committee, writing a correction. Obvious factual errors may also be corrected after the result has been announced. (3) A member of the committee may not refuse to sign the minutes. A member who disagrees with what is reflected in the minutes shall sign it with a particular view, stating what the particular opinion is. The reasons shall be set out in writing on a separate sheet and shall be applied as an integral part of the minutes. (4) Where a member of the committee is prevented for respectable reasons from signing a protocol, this shall be noted and the reasons shall be stated. (5) Failure to sign a report by a member of the committee shall not render it invalid. (6) The Selection Election Commission shall put in a prominent position before the building in which it is housed, a copy of the signed protocols stamped on each page with the Commission's stamp and signed by the Chair, Vice-President and Secretary. Section VIII. Determination of election results by the Regional Election Commission Application of Section IX of Chapter 15 Art. 306p. The relevant provisions of Section IX of Chapter 15 and the provisions of this Section shall apply to the determination of election results by the Regional Election Commission. Taking into account the results of voting in the electoral regions Art. 306p' (1) On the basis of the minutes of the selection committees, the Regional Election Commission shall take into account the results of the vote in the multi-mandated and one-mandated electoral regions and shall draw up protocols. (2) The votes from vessels on which a polling section is formed shall be added by a decision of the Regional Election Commission to the votes for candidate lists of the election area. Designation of selected majority candidates Art. 306p. (1) The Regional Election Commission shall designate the selected majority candidates in the area on the basis of the actual votes cast there. Protocols of the Regional Election Commission Art. 306p'. (1) The voting data shall be reflected in minutes of the Regional Election Commission on Parties, coalitions in the multi-mandated electoral area and for majority candidates in the one-mandated electoral regions. (2) The minutes of the Regional Election Commission shall be in two identical copies and shall be made on two-ply printed paper. The protocols are protected by polygraphic protection, determined by a decision of the Central Election Commission. Before completing each protocol, a draft shall be drawn up which, in its form and content, is identical. (3) Each copy of the minutes shall have separate pages. (4) The minutes of the Regional Election Commission shall contain the names of parties and coalitions and majority candidates as they are registered for participation in the elections. The names shall be printed in the minutes according to the order number in the ballot. Entry of data into the protocols Art. 306c. (1) In the minutes of the Regional Election Commission, the number of selection committees in the election area shall be consistently recorded, the number of selection committees which submitted voting protocols, the data under art. 275, para. 1 and under art. 306o. (2) The data under para. 1 shall be entered in the minutes with words and numbers. Signature of the Protocol Art. 306c'. (1) The minutes of the Regional Election Commission shall be signed by all members of the Commission. Following the signing of the Protocol, the President shall declare the results of the vote on candidate lists and majority candidates. (2) A member of the committee may not refuse to sign the minutes. A member who disagrees with what is reflected in the minutes shall sign it with a particular view, stating what the particular opinion is. The reasons shall be set out in writing on a separate sheet and shall apply as an integral part of the Protocol. (3) Where a member of the committee is prevented for respectable reasons from signing the minutes, this shall be noted and the reasons shall be stated. (4) Failure to sign the minutes by a member of the committee shall not render it invalid. (5) In the event of a manifest factual error, corrections may be made to the minutes. The amendment shall be signed by all the members of the committee, writing a correction. (6) The Regional Election Commission shall immediately send it to the Central Election Commission in electronic form, signed by electronic signature. (7) The Regional Election Commission shall place in front of the building in which it is housed, a copy of the signed Protocol stamped on each page with the seal of the Commission and signed by the Chair, Vice-President and Secretary. Section IX. Determination of election results by the Central Election Commission Designation of mandates Art. 306th. (1) The total number of mandates earned for each party and coalition shall be determined by the Central Election Commission: 1. by the proportional system determined by the amount of actual votes cast for candidate lists for the respective party or coalition in the country and abroad according to the Hare-Niemeier method according to Annex 6; 2. by the majority system referred to in Annex No 6. (2) The votes from abroad for the parties and coalitions shall be added to the votes for the parties and coalitions of the country according to the methodology set out in Annex No 6. Abroad is voted with the ballot only for candidate lists of parties and coalitions. Consequences of selection of candidate Art. 306t'. (1) In the event that the applicant is elected in a multi-mandated election area and in a single-mandated electoral region, the Central Election Commission shall declare him elected as a Member of Parliament from the one-mandated electoral area in which he is registered as a Member of the National Assembly. (2) In the cases under para. 1 The Central Election Commission shall declare the first candidate selected in a row on the list on which the applicant for a Member of the National Assembly has been registered. Announcement of the results of the vote Art. 306u. (1) The Central Election Commission shall announce the votes received and the distribution of the mandates between parties and coalitions and majority candidates no later than 4 days after the election day. (2) The Central Election Commission shall declare the names of the elected Members of the National Assembly no later than 7 days after the election day. Section X. Actions in the event of early termination of credentials Preliminary termination of the mandate of the MP from the Grand National Assembly Art. 306u'. (1) The mandate of the People's Representative of the Grand National Assembly shall be terminated early in the case of: 1. resigning before the Grand National Assembly; 2. the entry into force of a sentence imposing a prison sentence for a deliberate crime, or where the execution of the sentence has not been postponed; 3. establishment of non-selectability or incompatibility; 4. Death. (2) In the cases under para. 1, t. 1 and 2 the decision shall be adopted by the Grand National Assembly, and in the cases under para. 1, t. The Constitutional Court of Justice is responsible for the implementation and implementation of the Constitutional Tribunal's Rules of Procedure. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 16 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u145	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Thirty minutes off the job. The debates and the vote after the interruption. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u146	Colleagues, please take your seats. We continue to debate. You have the floor to speak. Here you are, Mrs. Niva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u147	Ms. Karayancheva, honourable MPs! We will not support the proposals tabled to amend § 16 and the creation of a new Chapter 15................................................................................................. And now we have standards for a Grand National Assembly that are good. Dear importers, I appeal to you: now is the time to withdraw the submitted proposals and stop beating the ball in your field to buy time. Please, throw out the gum. A great public assembly, because the agenda of society is different. Don't you realize there will be no Grand National Assembly according to your rules? Citizens, the 53rd day are already in the streets and the squares and they want a resignation, they want a machine vote, they want fair elections. [[SIGHS AND CHEERING FROM GERB AND OP]] That's all.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u148	Thank you, dear Mrs. Niva. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u149	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, I express my satisfaction with what has been achieved in the Legal Committee as a decision regarding § 16 and the proposal to create a different order for the election of MPs in the Grand National Assembly. Our motives, unlike the motives of the opposition, are principled and rest entirely on the Constitution, namely to art. 157, which predicts that elections for the Grand National Assembly are produced in general order. The general order in this case is the election for MPs in the ordinary National Assembly. Therefore, the establishment of a special chapter in the Election Code, which lays down special rules for the election of MPs in the Grand National Assembly, should not be accepted and supported, as it will be contrary to the constitutional norm, namely art. 157. Furthermore, it should be noted that the Grand National Assembly is being convened to resolve essential issues relating to the structure and organisation of the state bodies, the form of government and should not be limited by the introduction of such a mixed system as is proposed in § 16, the representativeness of the Bulgarian citizens in the Grand National Assembly should be limited. On the contrary, the maximum representation of the various public groups, the maximum opportunity for all political forces regardless of their size, to be presented and expressed to their constituents these ideas when the Constitution changes or when a new Constitution is adopted should be ensured. Once again, I call on you to support the Commission's decision to reject § 16. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u150	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. A line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Baychev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u151	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Each bill must solve certain problems... public policy, socio-economic, but with the proposed bill.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Personally, I don't understand such an important process with whom he has been consulted and whether he has been discussed at all? I would also like to address the importer: why are two different methodologies for determining the one-mandated and multi-mandated areas proposed? What is the advantage of one methodology and what is the advantage of the other methodology? For me, this will lead to organizational chaos and additional errors and tensions in the electoral process. On the other hand, it will also lead to a limitation of the representativeness of whole groups and of entire strata of the population, as well as smaller political parties will not be able and will not have representation in the Grand National Assembly and will not be expressive of the relevant public interests and political ones. In vain, the legislator canceled the majority vote because it considered that this was a disadvantage of the current electoral process. It is not yet clear and it is not explained to us exactly how the supply will take place in the multi-mandated areas, and also in the one-mandated areas, as at present a party list can be offered and a list of initiative committee can be proposed. By the way, this initiative committee thing, I have to tell you, it is nowhere in the European Union, at least, but only available in Bulgaria. Where is this experience drawn from and what exactly are the objectives that the importer pursues with this? And how exactly will the various initiative committees light up the population on matters on which their representative and his opinion will take place in the Grand National Assembly? What I can tell you at this time is that the problems identified are not solved, namely bought vote, controlled vote and organizational violations. On the contrary, in this way they will be deepened and for this reason we of the Bulgarian Socialist Party will not support this paragraph. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u152	Thank you, dear Mr. Baichev! - What's the line? I won't. A statement? Mr. Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u153	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, I will not comment on the substance of these proposals because it is simply not worth it. There is no expert in Bulgaria who has given a positive opinion regarding these proposals for the Grand National Assembly. For us, this Parliament is exhausted. And even when you had this idea for a Grand National Assembly, for changing the rules for the election of a Grand National Assembly, for a new Constitution we clearly and categorically stated that we will not participate in this theater, we will not participate in these debates. Because the goals, the only goals of this theater that you played with these proposals, are two. The first is in practice to make sense of the engine vote, which you have passed in the changes so far in the Election Code, and, the second is staying in power at least a little while longer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u154	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. - What's the line? Any other speeches? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Tsipov. Vote 162 MPs: 63 against 99, no abstentions. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the rejection of § 16.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u155	Vote 117 MPs: 110, against 3, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u156	Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs: A new § is being created...: I'm sorry, In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 325, para. 1, t. 3 is amended as follows: "3." a box for placing a sign of the "X" or "V" reflecting the will of the voter against which the name of the party, the coalition or the committee of call is written;........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal of the MP Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs: A new § is being created...: I'm sorry, In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments shall be made: 1. In the title "Aim for determining a number in the newsletter', the word "a number' is replaced by "a order'. 2. In para. 1 the words "Early numbers' shall be replaced by "Early order' and the words "Determined order number' shall be replaced by "Determined order'. 3. In para. 2 the word "supplier' is replaced by "supplier'. The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal of the MP Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs: A new § is being created...: I'm sorry, In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 328, para. 3, p. 1 words The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u157	Statements? I can't see. [[Replications from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u158	Colleagues withdrew them as the previous ones were supported.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u159	All three of them?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u160	All three of them.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u161	You're withdrawing them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u162	Under § 17 there is a proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: the following point is added: Seventeen. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 335 para. 2 and 3 are cancelled. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17, which shall become § 12.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u163	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Vote 173 MPs: 79, against 93, abstention 1. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the importing text of § 17, which shall become § 12. Vote 171 MPs: 99, against 66, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u164	Proposal of MPs Mustafa Karadayi, Hamid Hamid and Ahmed Ahmed Ahmedov: A new § is being created...: I'm sorry, In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 350, para. 1 words have lived for at least the last three months in the Republic of Bulgaria or in another Member State of the European Union to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of MPs Mustafa Karadayi, Hamid Hamid and Ahmed Ahmed Ahmedov: A new §... is being created: I'm sorry, Art. 360 to go. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs: A new §... is being created: I'm sorry, In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 371, para. 1, t. 3 is amended as follows: "3." a box for placing a sign "X" or "V" reflecting the will of the voter against which the name of the party, the coalition or the committee of call is written; The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u165	Are there any speeches on the new three paragraphs proposed by the MPs Mustafa Karadayi and Iskren Veselinov? Anyone? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm calling off the debate. I put to the vote the first proposal of the MPs Mustafa Karadayi, Hamid Hamid and Ahmed Ahmed Ahmedov for editing in art. 350. Vote 174 MPs: 19 against 148, abstention 7. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the National Representative Mustafa Karadayi for the creation of a new paragraph relating to the removal of art. 360. Vote 177 MPs: 20, against 151, abstention 6. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs related to the creation of a new member for change of art. 371. They voted 174 MPs: 21, against 78, abstention 75. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u166	Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs: A new § is being created...: I'm sorry, In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 372 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In the title "Win to determine a number in the newsletter', the word "number' is replaced by a sequence. 2. In para. 1 the words "Early numbers' shall be replaced by "Early order' and the words "Determined order number' shall be replaced by "Determined order'. 3. In para. 2 the words "the number' shall be replaced by "the order'. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of MPs Mustafa Karadayi, Hamid Hamid and Ahmed Ahmed Ahmedov: A new § is being created...: I'm sorry, Art. 386, para. 2 is amended as follows: The number of votes received for the applicant shall be no less than the national electoral quota. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of MPs Mustafa Karadayi, Hamid Hamid and Ahmed Ahmed Ahmedov: A new § is being created...: I'm sorry, In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 396 A.D. 1 words have lived for at least the last 6 months in the respective settlement to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of MPs Mustafa Karadayi, Hamid Hamid and Ahmed Ahmed Ahmedov: A new § is being created...: I'm sorry, In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: In addition, the Commission considers that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1 words have lived for at least the last 6 months in the respective settlement to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs: A new § is being created...: I'm sorry, In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 1, t. 4 is amended as "4." a box for placing a sign "X" or "V" reflecting the will of the voter against which the name of the party, the coalition or the committee of call is written; The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs: A new § is being created...: I'm sorry, In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 422, para. 1, t. 4 the words "signed order number' is replaced by "signed order'. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs: A new § is being created...: I'm sorry, In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments shall be made: 1. In the title, "Sign for a number in the newsletters', the word "number' is replaced by "order'. 2. In para. 1 the words "one number' shall be replaced by "one order'. 3. In para. 4 all over the The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs: A new § is being created...: I'm sorry, In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 432, para. 3 the words The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u167	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. I open the debates on the eight proposals for new texts in the Election Code. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. [[Reply from the National Representative Iskren Veselinov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u168	Mr. Veselinov withdraws them.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u169	You're withdrawing your parents? Extremely successful suggestions, and you're withdrawing them?! Will the DPS facilitate the work of the National Assembly? [[DRF lines]] . You don't withdraw them. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Mustafa Karadayi, Hamid Hamid and Ahmed Ahmed Ahmedov for the creation of a new paragraph relating to a change of art. 386, para. 2. Voted 182 MPs: 21, against 155, abstention 6. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Mustafa Karadayi, Hamid Hamid and Ahmed Ahmed Ahmedov for the creation of a new paragraph relating to art. 396. Vote 178 MPs: 20, against 153, abstention 5. The offer is not accepted. The last proposal of the same Members of Parliament shall be related to a new paragraph in relation to art. 397. Voting mode. Vote 176 MPs: 18, against 153, abstention 5. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u170	Paragraph 18 "Instruction text'. Proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and group of MPs: the following point is added: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 434 para. 1 t. 7 is repealed. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18, which shall become § 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u171	Are there any speeches on the text of the importer and on the proposal of the Members of the National Assembly? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs to change § 18 relating to art. 434. Vote 171 MPs: 65 against 97 abstentions 9. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer under § 18 which shall become § 13. Vote 170 MPs: 113 against 55, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u172	According to § 19 there is a proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: the following paragraph is added: "Seriously, I'm In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 440 para. 3 and 4 are cancelled. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19, which shall become § 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u173	Are there any statements under § 19? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the unacceptable proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs related to Art. 440. Vote 172 MPs: 70 against 99, abstention 3. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of § 19, which shall become § 14 by importer. Vote 161 MPs: for 93, against 66 abstentions 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u174	Under § 20, there is a proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: the following paragraph is added: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 450 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 t. 18 is canceled. 2. Allinea 3 is canceled. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20, which shall become § 15.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u175	Paragraph 20 statements? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm calling off the debate. Voting regime on the proposal of Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs not supported by the Commission. Vote 174 MPs: 73, against 89, abstention 12. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 20, which shall become § 15. Vote 177 MPs: 100 against 76 abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u176	Proposal of MPs Mustafa Karadayi, Hamid Hamid and Ahmed Ahmed Ahmedov: A new § is being created...: I'm sorry, Art. 454, para. 2 is amended as follows: The number of votes received for the applicant shall be no less than the municipal electoral quota. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Hristian Mitev and a group of MPs: ##20a: ##20a: "Twenty-sixteen-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 475 is created. 3: (3) The acts establishing the infringements under para. 1 and 2 may also be drawn up in the absence of the intruder. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Hristian Mitev and a group of MPs: screated § 20b: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 496 para. 3 the words "punished" shall be replaced by the words "criminal decrees" issued by the President of the CEC or by officials appointed by him. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Hristian Mitev and a group of MPs: It's created § 20c: .................................................................................. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 496a: supplied to the act establishing an administrative infringement Art. 496a. The act establishing an administrative infringement shall be served on the intruder personally against a signature, and if it cannot be served by mail with a registered letter with a return note. If the person is not found at the management address, at his permanent address or at work, the service shall be made by placing a notice of drawing up the instrument to be served on the notice board and on the website of the authority concerned. In the latter case, the act establishing an administrative infringement shall be deemed to have been served after the expiry of the 7-day period of the communication. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Hristian Mitev and a group of MPs: It was created § 20 years ago: .............................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 498 points after the word "Punishments' shall be deleted, commaed and the words "to the extent that no other line has been established with this code. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by MP Mustafa Karadayi, Hamid Hamid and Ahmed Ahmed Ahmedov: A new § is being created...: I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. The additional provisions of Paragraph 1 shall make the following amendments: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 (a) (b) to (c) shall be replaced by the words (d) to (e) to (f) to (f) to (f) to (f) to (f) to (f) to (f) to (f) to (f) to (f) to be replaced by the words (f) to (f) to (f) to (f) to (f) to (f) to (f) to (f) to (f) to (f) to (f) to (f) to (f) to (f) to (f) to (f) to (f). 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 (a) (b) shall be replaced by the words (c), (d), (e), (e), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (g), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (g), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4 (a) (b) shall be replaced by the words (b) by the words (c) by the permanent address (s) or by the current address (s) and (c) shall be replaced by the words (c) by the words (d) by the permanent address (s) or by the current address (s) shall be replaced by the words (c) by the words (d) or by the words (d) shall be replaced by the 4. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 5 (a) (b) shall be replaced by the words (c), (d), (e), (e), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (g), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (g), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (g), (f), (f), (f), (g), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u177	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. You have the floor to speak on the six proposals for the creation of new paragraphs. Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will base our proposals on administrative criminal provisions. The proposals made comply with the previous administrative criminal practice of the Central Election Commission and aim to improve and facilitate its administrative criminal activity. First of all, we provide for the possibility of the acts establishing administrative violations in the hypotheses of art. 475 para. 1 and 2 shall be drawn up in the absence of the intruder. Since these violations are committed on election day, it is difficult to ensure the presence of the intruder and, in many cases, it is precisely because of this that these acts are revoked by the court. In the case of hypotheses defined in the Code, we also propose that criminal decrees be issued by the President of the CEC or by officials authorised by him. Currently, these penal decrees are issued only by the President. The President must go to all legal proceedings where these criminal orders are challenged before the court, which, as a matter of fact, is not in any other administrative penal provisions, in any law in which case the President of the representing authority is to appear alone before the courts. We therefore create an opportunity for him to be able to empower other officials as he is in other laws. [[Noise and lines.]] A special order shall also be established for the service of acts establishing administrative infringements and the act establishing an administrative infringement shall be served on the violator personally against a signature and, if it is not possible to deliver it, shall be sent by mail with a registered letter with a return receipt. If the person is not found at the management address, at his permanent address or at work... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u179	Silence and attention to the speaker, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u180	... the service shall be carried out by means of a communication for the drawing up of the instrument to be served on the notice board and on the website of the authority concerned, and in the latter case the act establishing the administrative infringement shall be deemed to have been served after the expiry of a 7-day period of time after the communication has been placed. Such a procedure we have in the Law on Electronic Communications, in the Law on Copyright and its Related Rights, which practically facilitates the service of acts establishing an administrative infringement. In other words, these proposals are aimed at facilitating the administrative criminal activity of the Central Election Commission and I urge you to support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u181	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Any other comments on the six proposals for new paragraphs? I won't. I'm calling off the debate. I put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal by the MPs Mustafa Karadayi, Hamid Hamid and Ahmed Ahmedov for the creation of a new paragraph for changing art. 454. Vote 172 MPs: 19 against 138 abstentions 15. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Christian Mitev for the creation of a new § 20a. Vote 166 MPs: 17 against 75 abstentions 74. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Christian Mitev and a group of MPs for the creation of § 20b, the non-discrimination of the Commission. Vote 162 MPs: 91, against 68, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Christian Mitev and a group of MPs for the creation of a new § 20c. Vote 161 MPs: 87, against 70, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Christian Mitev and a group of MPs for the creation of a new § 20 years. Vote 152 MPs: 86, against 63, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Mustafa Karadayi, Hamid Hamid and Ahmed Ahmed Ahmedov to create a new paragraph relating to the Additional Provisions in § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u182	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u183	Vote 168 MPs: 19 against 142, abstention 7. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Letifov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u184	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, my procedure in the way of conduct is that in the last ten votes, I personally voted without biometrics, without putting my finger on it only with the presence of a map. My request to you is either to restart the system, then to refer to how many of the votes we voted without biometrics, and does this question the texts we voted on... [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Guys, we tried the whole group. And my question: what do we do with the texts that will remain suspected of not using the system as intended to legitimize the MPs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u185	Second procedure Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u186	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll tell you what our parliamentary group has established. Indeed, in the last maybe more than ten votes, when you announce a voting procedure, the consoles are running That's right. On behalf of your group, I would like you to pay attention to this because there is really a doubt in the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u187	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u188	That's not true! I can say the opposite!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u189	How is that not true? I'm telling you how it is with us, we took it with a phone! [[Radio, lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u190	It's procedure three.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u191	Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs! What we have come across, as our colleagues from the "Movement for Rights and Freedoms" and from the BSP have expressed, is even documented for the purpose, if necessary, to prove it without biometrics, without fingerprinting, today the panels by themselves allow voting! This speaks of what the legitimacy of the quorum of the National Assembly [[Laughter at GERB]] , on the legitimacy of the adopted texts, honourable Members! Which means, honourable Mr. Chairman, as a leadership of the National Assembly, refer, if possible, because I doubt to make such a reference, whether the texts that we adopted today correspond to what I have so far spoken about legitimacy or illegal texts! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u192	Procedure! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u193	Another procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u194	Mr. President, I have a procedure to ask you to put to the vote an extension of working time until the adoption of points two and three for today, namely the bills for amending the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund and amending the budget of state social security. [[The National Representative Philip Popov wants the floor.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u195	What do you have a procedure or a reverse opinion? Procedure Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u196	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before voting on this proposal, please really check the voting system. If the proposal itself is voted on, there is no telling who voted in this House. Let us not leave with the impression and conviction, which is obvious, unfortunately, that the quorum in this exhausted parliament is due to scheming and machine-voting machines with the consoles! Thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u197	It's okay. First, I'm gonna put... From the last line that's waving, what do you want? [[The National Representative Yavor Bojankov is headed to the stands. Revival at GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u198	Mr. Chairman, put my procedure to the vote! Don't give them the word.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u199	Okay, I'll put her through. Take it easy!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u200	There's no peace of mind! Mr. Bojankov has no right to procedure until my procedure is voted out!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u201	Mr. President, the procedure is extremely important because the continuation of the sitting is questionable. What do Bulgarian citizens see now? A malfunctioning system and a parliament that offers them new electoral rules where with machines, where with paper! Is this Parliament going to introduce at the moment the mixed, mutilated and disfigured machine vote that Parliament votes without biometrics, that is, it does not respect its own system and voting rules?! Indeed, what colleagues have said about the quorum in the morning 121 votes are already very much in doubt. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u202	I put to the vote the procedure proposed by Mrs. Stoyanova to extend today's meeting until the adoption of points two and three. [[Replying: "Nothing can be heard! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u203	What did you put to the vote right now?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u204	I put to the vote Mrs. Stoyanova's proposal to extend today's meeting until the adoption of points two and three of the agenda. Mr. Tishev and Mr. Kutev, please, the Quaestors, cooperate. Vote 161 MPs: 91, against 60, abstention 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u205	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u206	And now, according to the procedures of Mr. Letifov, Mr. Chenchev, Mr. Ibryamov and Mr. Bojankov regarding the way of voting and remarks regarding the system. A system check has already been carried out. The system is functioning flawlessly, there is no replacement... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria and DPS.]] Wait a minute, listen to me. There is no replacement of the vote of any MP, and there is no change in the seats of the Members of the National Assembly. For this reason, the system takes into account the voting of each of you due to the speed of submission of the texts. That's it. Once you keep the sitting going slower, then it will go slower and we will wait, but no one has changed their place... I follow the vote, from here it is very well seen, except that Mrs. Daritkova got up and left the room. That's it. What's the procedure? Another procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u207	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The problem is not whether everyone has voted from place to place or whether they have changed their place of voting. 66 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which in para. 3 says: When we cancelled biometric data a few months ago, this happened with a decision of the Conference of Presidents and a decision of the National Assembly! Today we have no decision of the National Assembly and are right colleagues who are putting the question of the legitimacy of all votes backwards! As much as you want to say that colleagues have not changed places, that they have voted with their own cards, yes, they have, but they have not voted with biometric data. I mean, Art. 66 of the Rules of Procedure in today are being violated, which calls into question the texts voted on from this paragraph back. Thank you. [[Strong noise from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u208	That's a lie!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u209	Sit down and vote to see how the vote is voted! [[National Representative Toma Bikov wants the floor.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u210	Mr. Bikov, procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u211	Dear Mr. President, I ask you to make a comment to the colleagues of Left and DPS who have started here to do a show of what they will do after introducing a machine vote in the elections. That's what they're gonna do. [[Applause and laughter from GERB and OP.]] Aren't these machines, colleagues, impeccable? They have all voted as they wished, their vote has not been replaced, the decision has been made as they have decided to take it, but suddenly it is illegal because their votes are less! The same thing they will do in the elections as they will receive fewer votes, they will come out and say: machines are responsible for this! [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] Colleagues, not machines, people vote! You voted and your vote has been taken into account, just as most of the Bulgarian citizens voted for us and their vote has been taken into account! And with procedural moves in the next election, you will still do the same as the previous ten choices! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u212	I see a lot of hands up. Another clarification, for the second time there is no violation of art. 66, I can read it to you, there's no change in the seats and the vote is done by biometrics in any other way.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u213	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u214	It is absolutely true, as anyone can vote only on the panel on which he has voted with his own finger. Now I'm giving the floor to the rest of you who want to do the procedure. Mr. Ibryamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u215	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Mr. Chairman, you allow from the stand of the National Assembly a colleague from GERB to make suggestions. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] The problem is not how a Member of the National Assembly will vote, honourable Members! Of course, he will vote in the way that his conscience and group command him. The problem is the consoles, because without biometrics, I can vote in three separate places! No biometrics! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u216	Bullshit!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u217	That's the problem! And it's not about changing places, and in two neighboring places next to me, I can vote without biometrics! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] We got it on tape. Mr. President, I beg you, without suggesting to the MPs who voted for whom, how he will vote, how he will vote, really check and establish the legitimacy of the adopted texts, because this speaks of manipulation even on the part of the management of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u218	Thanks for the compliment. Others? Mr. Chenchev, come in. [[Relations from the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov]] Oh, yeah, excuse me.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u219	He's already taken an attitude. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u220	It's procedure, so what? Are you going to speak through the mask, Mr. Ivanov? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs, honourable representatives of towns and villages! A few things are important to say. First of all, your confession, Mr. Chairman, that the biometrics were indeed excluded from the system. To confirm...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u221	It's not off. I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u222	For confirmation, I will tell you the following: first a person turns off the machine in this case the console. Man off! So don't talk about the election. The machines will be your fault. A man can turn off the machine. But, after the confession that the system was shut down, first check...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u223	There's no such confession. Where did you hear that?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u224	First, check... How could there not be? They've admitted the system's been shut down.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u225	Who are they who confessed to? Okay, I won't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u226	And to prove to you that when biometrics are included to be voted from different places, I will tell you that Mr. Baychev is sitting in the eighth row, and today he has been voting from the second with biometrics and without biometrics all day long. [[Noise and lines.]] It's natural and normal to calm down. There are violations of the Rules of Procedure because in this important vote there was no biometrics and it is normal for the MPs to doubt the vote. [[Noise and lines.]] It's perfectly normal! And something else might not have gotten out of place or got up, the map being there and voting without biometrics. It's that simple.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u227	I repeat, no one has ever gotten up from their place, no one has changed their place. He voted from the panel on which he placed his finger in the previous votes. The system doesn't work, and that's why it allows it. [[Heckling]] The system's fine. Mr. Mitev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u228	Dear Mr. President, I appeal to you, as up until now we have actually listened only to a reproach that the biometric voting system has not worked in one part of the room, in the left part and in part of the centre. It's funny how in the right part of the room we don't have that kind of data that doesn't work without biometrics.! [[Loud noise and lines.]] With us, the system worked and worked only with biometrics. This one, first. Secondly, since we have mutually exclusive statements and contesting the so-called legitimacy, the Bulgarian word is the legality of the vote and of the adopted texts, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, who dispute the legality of the texts: there is a Constitutional Court. Collect the necessary number of MPs, collect the required number of signatures, appeal them to the Constitutional Court. There is no way that the President of the National Assembly, Vice-President, staff from the administration of the National Assembly, supporting the system, will give you an answer at the moment whether the texts are legal or not. Whether we have a breach of procedure, whether we have unconstitutional texts decides only the Constitutional Court. Deal with the Constitution, colleagues. [[Applause from GERB and OP. Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u229	Here you go, Mr. Lazarov. [[Heckling]] Let's alternate groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u230	I've been raising my hand for half an hour.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u231	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u232	Dear Mr. Chairman! I appeal to my colleagues: The 40th National Assembly introduced the vote on biometrics. [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] If you remember, before that, there were many claims that you were voting with other people's cards. [[noise and lines]] , respectively, grounds for non-compliance with the Constitution, where it is written down what quorum decisions are taken in the National Assembly. I'll repeat that. If I am not mistaken, there was also a referral to the Constitutional Court in relation to whether the Law was adopted in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution on the quorum. I will repeat what Mr. Mitev said, so I raised my hand from before. Well, gather the necessary number of MPs, if I am not mistaken, submit your request or refer to the Constitutional Court for the fact that this law or the previous ones you want is adopted under unconstitutional conditions. Let's go forward, otherwise it is obvious that you want to block the work of the National Assembly. I would like to remind you, honourable MPs, we are facing two very important laws, which are expected of Bulgarian citizens for the Health Insurance Fund and another one. Obviously, you have stated that you wish to support them, clearly that you have changed your opinion.................................................................................. you do not want to support them. You stated yesterday and the other day that you will enter and register when we will see the Election Code. You don't. Obviously, you do not now want to add to the budget of the two institutions the corresponding funds that concern many Bulgarian citizens. At least get it straight, don't block the job. Look at the Constitutional Court!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u233	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u234	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, obviously you either do not want or you cannot understand where the problem is and what our claims are. The problem is not which MP voted from which place. My place is here, I vote there today in three different places. That's not the problem. [[Noise and lines.]] The problem is that by not working biometrics, it is possible that people who are not in this House voted, that is, a colleague who voted with a foreign card, which generally calls into question the choices we have made and the decisions we have voted on. What does the National Assembly's Rules of Procedure say? That the votes are done with biometrics, as Mr. Svilensky quoted. Mr. Lazarov says: "In previous national meetings, there was a raise of hands. Previously, beans may have been voted on, but now, at the moment, this National Assembly is being voted on with biometrics. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u235	Maya Manolova and Mikhail Mikov removed the biometrics.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u236	And since these votes have been carried out without biometrics, they are illegal. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u237	Thank you. Are there any more procedures? I recommend that we limit ourselves to procedures on this point. Mr. Gokov, come on in, but just to keep repeating it all over again, I don't see the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u238	Dear Mr. Chairman, I have a procedure in the manner of conduct. It is an undisputed fact that in the last votes, I do not know how long it has been voted without biometrics. It is an undisputed fact that this is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Now you're explaining to me that everyone's sitting in their place and voting, and I'm saying, for example, that I can sit in my seat and vote with the card of a person who's not there. I do not question whether the vote on this bill is legal or not, that my vote or my colleagues have not been taken into account. I say that you thus leave doubts about everything in the adoption of the Law, leave doubts even in the quorum in the morning whether it was such? How do I know that since I have been outside the Chamber you have not excluded the biometrics and have not registered the colleagues with foreign cards there are colleagues who are not there to ensure the quorum for the work of the National Assembly?! That's what this is about. And to stop arguing, I suggest you come up with some solution to get out of this situation. Because I'm telling you again whether we're going to refer to the Constitutional Court or not, it doesn't matter. [[Noise and lines.]] It matters that you leave doubts in the people, in the opposition, in the people outside not only who protest the whole people that...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u239	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u240	...we're doing some manipulations. I am particularly telling you, the issue of the quorum that you cannot collect in the morning is sensitive. You leave me and people doubting that you provide the quorum in this way by excluding biometrics. [[Noise and lines.]] Even if you scream and don't scream, the doubts remain. Forty-two, and the third, we are now the forty-fourth National Assembly, and that is how it is. [[Noise and lines.]] Explain to the people: do you provide the quorum illegally? [[Heckling]] That's it! There's nothing more to ask. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u241	A reference will be made, the information will be provided that proves that it has been voted with biometrics. In me remains the doubt, Mr. Gokov, is what you are saying at the moment the same as your colleagues? First, why and only on the left side of the room? Does the people's representative, by voting, see that there is an irregularity, wait for this irregularity to happen 30 times and now, one after another, in an Indian thread, you make speeches from the department? This is more like a party. I'm sorry. There's no doubt about the biometrics. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] For proof, you will be given full reference. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u242	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In relation to the problems with the devices themselves and the fact that there are suggestions from the tribune of various MPs that there has hardly been a quorum, it is hardly a vote with other cards and everything else, Mr President, please provide to all those MPs who want to vote hours and seconds each vote, and the video recordings from the whole room, which are non-stop, to compare whether the MPs voted, whether they voted with other cards, whether they were in the registration room, were they in the voting room? Because the records are continuous. And that someone is suggesting that there is a replacement vote is just a lie! There's a non-stop recording that shoots the entire hall, and then your lies will shine!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u243	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. It's already been ordered to make a printout. Video recordings will not be provided but will be provided upon request by the Chairs of the Group of the Presidential Council. Mrs. Alexandrova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u244	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Under § 21, an offer by the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of Members of the National Assembly shall be made: "Paragraph 21" is out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 21 which, if you will allow me, Mr President, to report becomes § 19 in view of the previous three paragraphs, which have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u245	The debate under § 21 is open. Do you have any comments? I don't see anyone who wants to. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova for dropping § 21. Vote 150 MPs: 60 against 88 abstentions 2. I shall put to the vote the text on a proposal from the Commission, with which § 21 becomes § 19. Vote 148 MPs: for 100, against 48, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. [[Noise and lines.]] Any notes on the biometrics? [[Heckling]] Not anymore. Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u246	Proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs. If I may, I withdraw the proposal in view of the fact that Chapter 15 has not been adopted in previous votes. Proposal of MPs Mustafa Karadayi, Hamid Hamid and Ahmed Ahmed Ahmedov: A new one is being created. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. In the Methodology for determining the results of the vote and allocating the mandates in elections to MPs, in V., p. 5.3 is amended as follows: The preference for a candidate on the candidate list shall be valid if the number of votes he has received is not less than the regional electoral quota. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of MPs Mustafa Karadayi, Hamid Hamid and Ahmed Ahmed Ahmedov: A new one is being created. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. In the Methodology for determining the results of the vote and the allocation of the mandates in elections to members of the European Parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria, in V. 5.3 is amended as follows: The preference for a candidate on the candidate list shall be valid if the number of votes he has received is not less than the national electoral quota. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs: A new one is being created. I'm sorry, In Annex 4 to art. 452, para. 1, Methodology for determining the results of the vote for mayors, i.e. 3 after the words "Actual voices" shall be comma and shall be added with the exception of the votes referred to in art. 279, para. 1, t. 6, b. ?.?......................................................................................... The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of MPs Mustafa Karadayi, Hamid Hamid and Ahmed Ahmed Ahmedov: A new one is being created. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. In the Methodology for determining the results of the vote and the allocation of the mandates in elections for municipal councillors, in V. 5.2 is amended as follows: The preference for a candidate on the candidate list shall be valid if the number of votes he has received is not less than the municipal electoral quota. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs. I withdraw that offer as well.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u247	Have there been any speeches on the proposals for new members made for four issues? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm calling off the debate. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Mustafa Karadayi, Hamid Hamid and Ahmed Ahmed Ahmedov for the creation of a new paragraph relating to Methodics. [[The National Representative Georgi Gokov is in the block of AG of GERB. National Representative Lachezar Ivanov tells him to go home to the group.]] I ask the Members of the National Assembly to remain silent and respectful and to speak to each other. [[Radio and laughter.]] Vote 157 MPs: 19 against 135 abstentions 3. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of MPs Mustafa Karadayi, Hamid Hamid and Ahmed Ahmed Ahmedov for the creation of a new paragraph again for Methodics No 2, we call it conditionally. Vote 158 MPs: 17 against 139, abstention 2. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs for the creation of a new paragraph to Annex No 4 of the Methodology. Vote 160 MPs: 17 against 75, abstention 68. The offer is not accepted. And the last proposal by MPs Mustafa Karadayi, Hamid Hamid and Ahmed Ahmed Ahmedov for the creation of a new paragraph in the Methodicals.............................. a proposal third to this group of MPs. Vote 168 MPs: 18, against 141, abstention 9. The offer is not accepted. With great gratitude to Mr. Tsypov, seven leaves are skipping, we are going to the transversal and final provisions.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u248	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes the following name of the division: Under § 22, there is a proposal of the MP Christian Mitev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 22 be rejected. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 23 which shall become § 20. Proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and group of MPs: ..created § 24: .................................................................................. In the Law on State Agency "National Security" (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 6 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 6: The Agency shall perform the functions of the testing and certification body of voting machines in the production of elections in the Republic of Bulgaria. 2. Previously on AMC's... 6 " 9" became respectively. 7.. 10.... 10............................................................................. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs: A new § is being created...: I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. In the Law on the Administrative and Territorial Device of the Republic of Bulgaria (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 16, p. 1 words "350 people" shall be replaced by "200 people." The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs: A new § is being created...: I'm sorry, In the Law on the direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 9, para. 2 t. 1 is repealed. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u249	Are there any statements on the title under § 22? Mr. Bogdanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u250	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I will take into account the proposal of the United Patriarchs..................................................................................................... We have proposed in this law to change the minimum required for the formation of town halls from 350 inhabitants of the locality, as it is at this time, to 200 inhabitants. [[Noise and lines.]] What are the reasons for this proposal of ours? A large part of the villages in Bulgaria are exactly in the order between just over 200 inhabitants, a huge percentage of the settlements are actually such. [[Noise and lines.]] They're not mayors. They're mayors. And that way...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u251	Please, colleagues, be quiet! Take an example from the left side of the room.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u252	They are not subject to the choice of their mayor. We see no reason why people from these settlements have no right to determine who their representative will be for the next four years and who will manage this settlement. We believe that in this way we restrict the right of Bulgarian citizens in these settlements to be able to choose their mayor. How does a person who lives in such a populated area differ from a man who lives in a village with 350 people? We don't see any reason for this thing to happen. Moreover, I have heard arguments in the direction that we were going to spend extra money on elections in such settlements. It's nothing like that. Elections are held together with all other types of local elections. As voted there for mayor of the municipality, so voted for municipal councillors and if voted for mayor of the locality, this will not be any problem for the state budget. Why do we offer settlements over 200 inhabitants? Because in Bulgaria there are many deserted settlements. We also discussed the minimum requirement to be 100 inhabitants. But in the end there are many settlements where there are people who are registered, but de facto many of them do not live there and these places are almost deserted. So I think 200 is a pretty optimal option, and let's give the people of small towns a chance to choose their mayors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u253	Thank you, Mr. Bogdanov. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Bojankov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u254	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! This is a proposal that we have always defended and supported back in time by our parliamentary group as well. It is important for small settlements. Next, unfortunately, demographic trends in Bulgaria. It is democratic, it is right and legally supported. We don't show any jealousy that someone else brought it in. I suggest to the other colleagues to do the same and support it, because the small settlements of Bulgaria really deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u255	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. - What's the line? I won't. I give the floor to Mr. Atanasov for speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u256	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am pleased that BSP colleagues will support this proposal. Mr. Bogdanov very clearly justified the reasons why this should happen. I'd rather justify myself as a longtime administrator. After eight years of mayorship, I've seen a lot of bad things in that direction. Colleagues, at first the law was, which was absurd, up to 500 people choosing a mayor. You remember in the previous parliament, very wisely we changed the decision of 350 people, again I think we insisted that it be for 200 people then. We've reached a compromise of 350 people. You remember what the debates were in the previous parliament. But, colleagues, it is really worth supporting this proposal for 200 people and over 200 to elect a mayor. Why, colleagues? Because I'm going to say it straight: the municipal mayors of many municipalities, especially where they have many villages, appear almost like some Gauleiters in their municipality. What are they doing right now? With 350 people, which is a lot for me, and the demographic crisis, you see how seriously it hits us when you don't have 350 people, what does the mayor do? It's perfect for him. I'm telling you, as mayor, it's perfect for him. He therefore offers his own people as mayor such is the Law, of course, the municipal council of the municipality itself usually supports it. Why? Because, from experience, I will tell you that over 90% of the municipal mayors in Bulgaria have a majority in the municipal council for various reasons. Let me not dwell on why this is happening, the will of the mayor of the city is ultimately being done. In my opinion, it is absolutely undemocratic that over 200 people should not have the right to choose the mayor to govern them in the small village. I therefore call on you to think seriously about this. Believe me, financialally, the state's fissure won't cost that much money, but at the same time, it's wonderful when the population chooses... [[Loud noise.]] There's a lot of noise, and that's why I'm yelling.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u257	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u258	It's wonderful when the population chooses its own mayor with its own voice, because then they already have the right to look into how it manages. Otherwise, what happens now? They have to go to the city mayor in the respective locality............................................................................................ to attack the municipal mayor and say:........................................................................................................................................................ When they choose it, then, colleagues, there's no movement they've chosen! As the saying goes: "Vox pópuli, vox déi" "Voice of the people, voice of God!" That is why my request is: think wisely and let us support this proposal by the United Patriarchs and my colleagues from IMRO. [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u259	Quiet, please! No yelling, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u260	Thank you, colleagues. I wasn't able to speak in a normal setting, but I think you understand my argument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u261	- What's the line? Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u262	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u263	Mrs. Stoyanova, I will impose disciplinary measures on you! You can't stop screaming.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u264	Mr. Atanasov, I have listened to you very carefully, and now I will ask you to listen to me, because you were not the only one in the local government. [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u265	Be quiet in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u266	You are well aware, despite your zealous speech, that a mayor of a locality does not matter how many residents is 100, 200, 300 or more, could not do anything without the consent of the municipal council and the municipal mayor, as well as choose them. And a mayor's deputy, even though he's employed, does the same work. It sounds very good for people to choose, I agree, but what difference does it make? Better give another argument, because these mayors and mayors have the same funds that everyone else has, that is to say, they are in the hands of the municipal mayor. By the way, there's no mayor's deputy from another locality. Let's not fool people into thinking that by choosing one mayor, they will get some special rights and opportunities. You all know it's all in the hands of the city mayor. It is not appropriate to water things down and to deceive that, when we vote on this particular proposal, something could change and do something different in small towns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u267	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Are there any other lines? Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u268	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Atanasov, I repeat to you, but I will say that I agree with you completely. I want you to explain to the defendant that there are settlements where people protest against their appointed mayors, go out into the street, the mayors...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u269	Mr. Ivanov, the line is an objection to the substance.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u270	That's right. Mr. Atanasov let him say it here in front of the Chamber because he missed it in his speech, what bums he has appointed as mayor's deputies and people don't want five minutes to stay there. They don't want it for five minutes!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u271	Mr. Ivanov, that's not the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u272	They were appointed by GERB. [[Loud noise.]] Three times they did riots and strikes in the noisy villages...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u273	I'll take your word for it!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u274	Three times!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u275	You're very lucky I just took your word away and you came down. [[Laughter]] Bravo! Is there a third line? I won't. Mr. Atanasov, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u276	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Simeonov, dear Colonel Hristov! [[Radio, laughter.]] Yeah, I'm saying that because I'm an officer, too. With great respect, I say it to him, and I've always respected him. [[Loud noise.]] Colleagues, there is a huge difference from a mayor's deputy and directly elected mayor from the population. Understand it! When a person is directly elected by the population, do I explain to you who are so experienced people in this Parliament that then the mayor has real power to be able to ask the municipal council and the municipal mayor to provide the necessary funds for the population accordingly? Because the population in this locality says, "We don't have a mayor. This is the big difference between the directly elected mayor and the mayor's deputy, who is a clean sample is a clerk. It's a huge difference, guys! It's a huge difference! When they are directly elected, they have the power to go to the mayor of the city and to say to him: "Mr. Mayor, like you, I am directly elected by the people, so for my village, as well as so, we need this and this. And at the moment, what the mayor says: "A, I have appointed you, you have no right at all to apostrophe my decisions." Understand it! And another thing. We're fighting for more human rights, aren't we? [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u277	Mrs. Stoyanova, I will reprimand you!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u278	And as far as my favorite Mrs. Stoyanova is concerned, it was nice to get me a line so I could give her the back, because I know how she thinks. So, colleagues, please support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u279	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Mr. Angelov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u280	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll talk to two of our suggestions. One concerns the choice of small settlements. I see that there are negotiators here with the Volya party to obviously decide how to vote. We call on the Volya party to vote in favour of electing the mayors in small towns, not to appoint them. There were speculations here about this party, that party appoints them. Each party that wins the local vote does so and appoint mayors of town halls in view of their political interest, personal interest or bargaining, which is made in the municipal council for the various political forces so that my man can join this village, and yours will put it on others and thus support the proposal for the mayor, which is unacceptable in the 21st century. We are talking about democracy, we are talking about small communities having to manage themselves and have a person who can solve their problems and help. It is not true that it depends only on the municipal budget what will happen for example in a town hall in a village. [[Loud noise.]] May I ask for silence? In many places in Bulgaria from the municipal budget are also provided budgets for the town halls they receive annually and use them to somehow improve the lives of the people in the villages. The other thing I'd like to add. [[Loud noise.]] Mr. Chairman, may I ask for silence?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u281	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u282	Mr. Ivanov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u283	From BSP, won't you stop yelling?!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u284	I also want to tell you something else that no one takes into account. The argument before the 100 citizens rose to 200, 250 elective seats, and then 350 that it had reached 500 was that in some of the settlements, although there are over a hundred and several people registered, they simply do not live there and are not there, there is no one to be a candidate or who to vote for. That's why we suggested 200. Because of the bad fact of the pandemic came to something good. Many people have returned to the villages, registered at the current address, unfortunately, not more permanent, at the current address mass. Many of these people live in the villages and many of these villages, which are currently under 350 people, may actually already be about 350, 500 or 600 people. This is a fact, and each of you sees it daily. Everyone can ask the mayors in the villages how many people recorded at the current address during the pandemic. There are many people who, for example, keep the Sofia registration or registration of another district town to use the map for urban transport, because over 70 years in Sofia will cost him eight levs or is free, and he lives in a village in Sofia region. This pensioner does not change his address due to this fact, but he lives there. So really in the villages people are much more than statistics catch them. We must provide really chosen people for this community to take care of the interests of these people. On the subject of what we have proposed, the Law of Inquiry or the so-called Law of referendums. We have proposed that Bulgarian citizens should have the right to rule on issues concerning the Grand National Assembly of referendums. That's what we've suggested. We want the Bulgarian citizens to be able to say what to happen in a referendum on whether to have an educational center, whether the presidential powers are expanding and not these issues to be resolved only by a Grand National Assembly because the larger Grand National Assembly is the Bulgarian people who can rule on these issues! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u285	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. - What's the line? Mr. Christov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u286	Mr. Angelov, where will these mayors' money come from? You just said: what funds can come to a city hall with 200, 300 or 400 people besides what is at stake in the municipal budget? Now we're talking about elections. What you're doing right now is going to attract more and more people to go register for the elections themselves. You know that perfectly well. You know that thing well! Let's not fool people now! Really think about whether you want to do this and do not abuse that, you see, they will have some special means. No, the funds are accepted in the municipal budget. That's what he'll have. If he got into the municipal budget, then he'd have the money, if he didn't get into the municipal budget, he wouldn't have the money. It doesn't matter if he's going to be a mayor, whether he's going to be mayor of a village. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u287	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Are there any other lines? Mr. Atanasov, the line. [[Noise and lines.]] The line is an objection to the substance, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u288	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Angelov! I'm taking a line from you based on the front line. Because, Mr. Angelov, I will tell you that this line, which was just made by Mr. Christov, is exactly the opposite moment. Usually in large cities where things are on the scale who will win the big cities, the process is exactly the opposite from the villages registered in the city. Typical example is Plovdiv.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u289	Thank you. Is there a third line? Mr. Gokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u290	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Angelov, I want to tell you that we will support your proposal, all the more so that back in time it was our proposal. I get up so I don't take the floor and speak later because Mr. Christov is very clever...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u291	What do you disagree with in terms of substance?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u292	I'll explain. He's very clever when he's making a line for you, so he can't be opposed to his own. But through you I will remind Mr. Hristov...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u293	Where's the line here?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u294	...supporting your thesis that quite...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u295	I'll take your word for it. [[The National Representative Georgi Gokov spoke with microphones off.]] You have no objection to the substance. [[Noise and lines.]] Hole, Mr. Angelov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u296	Colleagues, thanks for the lines. Mr. Hristov, I think that all political parties and those in power and opposition must still have made some conclusions, no matter that a large part of those who protest outside are political or other persons, but there are also normal citizens who protest for more democracy in Bulgaria. Let us draw these conclusions and vote on decisions that will show more democracy, more opportunity for people, because even in a small village of 200 people it is really important who will be the mayor, because these are the majority of the settlements in Bulgaria. The arguments you made about there being no budget and there was no way to give them, then why are we making elections for municipal mayors? There's a state budget to be hired by the government by a city mayor and it doesn't make sense! By the same logic, why would there be elections for municipal mayors? Logic is every settlement that really has people these days to represent the community, to be able to choose a mayor if you will and 15 people. It's democracy! We live in a democracy in the 21st century. I call on all my colleagues from the Volvo who are agitating them not to support this proposal, and my colleagues who are from the Ataka and who have left the House, and the independent ones, to come back, I also call on you from the BSP to hear that you will support it, and whether you will do it or not, we will see, even though you have not supported it in the Commission and, above all, I call on our colleagues from GERB, let us really vote on things that will change the state and give more opportunity for democracy! That's what we want.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u297	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Mr. Gokov is listed for a statement. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u298	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm going to say what I wanted to say just now, only in the form of a statement. Our parliamentary group will support this proposal because it was our proposal back in time. Not only was it a proposal, but when the BSP had a majority in this Parliament, there was such a rule in the electoral legislation, a settlement with over 100 people to choose their mayor. What's more democratic than choosing the mayor that everyone wants in this village?! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u299	Quiet and order, please! Mr. Hristov, don't break the order in this room. It doesn't suit you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u300	And it's quite... [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u301	Once again, I appeal for order in this Chamber so I don't have to impose administrative measures!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u302	It has nothing to do with the mayor who's being appointed administratively and the mayor who's being elected by the people. I can give dozens of examples from Stara Zagora, as Mr. Hristov, who made two lines in the direction of... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u303	Colleagues from the United Patriarchs, Mr. Angelov, please be quiet, the speaker is not heard!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u304	I can give dozens of examples from Stara Zagora, as Mr. Hristov made several remarks against the proposal, where the whole village is fighting against the mayors appointed by the municipal mayors in small towns, and the municipal leadership does not comply with this. So democracy requires that the mayors of all settlements be elected no matter how many inhabitants live, all the more so that it wouldn't cost more, wouldn't cost the elections in any way. I cannot understand how a party that claims and is willing to advertise itself as a democratic party can use undemocratic techniques and restrict people's right to vote, so think about it and listen to what the partners explain to you. Vote in favour of this proposal in order to accept it so that there are no problems further, moreover, that all associations of municipalities want it and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u305	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the latest texts of the Election Code. We are voting on the title of the Section, which, from Vote 182 MPs: 166, against 10, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the rejection of § 22 on a proposal from the Commission and the Members of the National Assembly. Vote 188 MPs: 186, against 2, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 23, which shall become § 20. Vote 186 MPs: 118 against 11, abstention 57. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs for the creation of § 24, not supported by the Commission. Vote 188 MPs: for 71, against 102, abstention 15. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs for the creation of a new paragraph, not supported by the Commission. Vote 188 MPs: 79, against 93, abstention 16. The offer is not accepted. [[Noise and lines.]] Quiet, please! We're in voting mode, please! I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs for the creation of a new paragraph in the Law on the direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government. The Commission does not support the proposal. They voted 182 MPs: 106, against 12, abstention 64. The motion is accepted. With this was adopted the new Election Code. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] Congratulations to the winners and everyone! Mr. Ermenkov, what do you have? Here's a procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u306	Since we are still dealing with serious matters, I would like to ask you, first of all, to rethink this last proposal and, second of all, if it is accepted, then put to the vote and the title of the section, because it is no longer a Final provision.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u307	It's a rethink mode. I put to the vote first the re-voting of the last point of the establishment of a new paragraph in accordance with the proposal of the MP Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. Vote 177 MPs: 114, against 61, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. I would like to rethink the name of the section that we have adopted to read. They voted 153 MPs: 123 against 11, abstention 19. The proposal has been adopted and the Election Code has therefore been adopted. Congratulations! I appeal to the MPs that we voted to extend the agenda to the adoption of the next two points, so keep your cool and stay in your seats. Moving on to the next point: THE SECOND VOICE OF LAWPROECTION OF THE LAW FOR THE BUDGET OF NATIONAL HEALTH AND HEALTH CASE FOR 2020, No 002-01-43, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 September 2020, adopted at the first vote on 11 September 2020. Mrs. Stoyanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u308	The Commission's Report on Budget and Finance on a Draft Law on Supplement to the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2020, No 002-01-43, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 September 2020, adopted at the first vote on 11 September 2020. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u309	Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to. Voting regime for the name of the Law. Vote 104 MPs: for 102, against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u310	Under Paragraph 1, there is a proposal of the National Representative Valentina Naydenova: ................................................................................... Paragraph 1 of the Transitional and Final Provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. The proposed new para. 3 acquires the following type: . (3) In the case of money under para. 2 by expenditure and transfers and by order: - 1.1.3. Health insurance payments; - 1.1.4. Payments from transfers from the Ministry of Health under para. 1 row 3; - 1.3. A reserve, including for unforeseen and urgent expenses, up to the amount of unused funds, may be used, in accordance with their occurrence, for the payment of unpaid medical care up to 31.12.2019 including, reflected in the annual financial statements of the contractual partners, according to art. 39. 2 of the Accounting Act, for: 1. Acquired 2. Acquired "Indemnities' of the NHIF to medical aid providers carried out in accordance with the rules for coordination of social security systems; 3. Other expenses incurred by the health institutions related to the medical care performed but not paid. 2. The proposed new para. 4 acquires the following type: . (4) the medical and healthcare partners of the NHIF, but not paid by the NHIF medical assistance under para. 3 shall be determined and paid in accordance with the order established by the Minister of Health. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u311	Thank you. I'm opening the debate. Mr. Mikhailov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u312	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the first vote, we strongly shared in this House that we will support this draft law, as there will always be a need for funds for health care. But I don't see here Mr. Lazarov, who just now, perhaps 15 minutes ago, was very passionate, sorry that I didn't see him, said here from this stand that there were some very important laws waiting. I would like to say to Members of this House who are not obliged to know the health problems, that the decision that we are about to take today concerns less than 1% of the annual health budget and will by nothing change either the state of the hospital network or the payment of the medical staff or the emergency situation in which we find ourselves. Moreover, this decision was practically taken in a piece, throwing some money into health care and the first to take advantage of it, it is clear to everyone, it became clear at the first discussion of the Draft Law, will be the creditors of hospitals, as the duties of hospitals are enormous. But I call on all my fellow Members, in support of this decision, to think about it after four years, almost no changes in health care, talking only pompously, I hope this time we will not get to such fundamental statements, as was the last time we discussed, about the importance of the health system. We probably won't get there, yes, and if one day we have the opportunity to really address his real problems, which have not been solved here in this room, for four years now, not one of them. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u313	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. I put to the vote the unacceptable proposal of the MP Valentina Naydenova. 88 MPs voted: 18, against 68, abstention 2. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the importing text for § 1. Vote 89 MPs: 88, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Stoyanova, continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u314	'Concluding provision'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u315	Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u316	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We will support this decision, but we must inform you of the following. Honourable Members, the support is for 48 million and a half close to 2015. Very strange, pay attention to the numbers.. 27 million and three tenths 2016, that is almost 100% difference, 2017 again 48,9 million, over 2015; and 2018 data is only for the first quarter, if extrapolated, returns to the levels of 2016. This is the first weirdness. The first conclusion, honourable Members, the health limit system is not working! Either they're wrong, or most hospitals don't give a shit about limits as they go over them.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u317	Mr. Gechev, may I have your attention, please? Do you speak on the Final provision at the moment as a title or when does the Law come into force? Because that's what we're gonna vote on. Which one of the two dots?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u318	Let me finish my comment. All of them. It's the whole law. Third place...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u319	The second vote is on specific texts. If you have any on the lyrics...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u320	...many of the hospitals have filed cases against the NHIF.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u321	I'll take your word for it if you don't talk about specific texts!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u322	Well, now if you don't give me one minute to graduate... I said we're going to vote on it. I pay attention to problems that if we don't solve, we will give each other 150 million leva every three months.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u323	General speeches are for first reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u324	That's not a general statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u325	Do you have anything by name under § 2?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u326	Well, if you want to break democracy, whatever.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u327	Thank you. Are there any other statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the name of the section of the final provision. 86 MPs voted: 85, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. With this, the second vote ended and the National Health Insurance Fund Budget Act was adopted. May I have your attention, please? Honourable Members of the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that the following additional points be included in the next Programme for Work of the National Assembly: First vote on the Bill amending the Law on Medical Institutions. Importer "Daniela Daritkova" from 10 September 2020, and I propose to become point one for Friday, 18 September 2020, and First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Word Organizations of Nurses, midwives and Associated Medical Professionals, Dentists and Assistant Pharmacists. Importer Daniela Daritkova of 10 September 2020, proposing to become point two for Friday, 18 September 2020. Please vote. Vote 95 MPs: 86 against 6, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, in connection with the upcoming official holiday 22 September "Bulgaria's Independence Day, a non-working day for the whole country, I propose that the National Assembly adopt a decision as follows: ? RESPONSIBILITY? The National Assembly on the basis of art. 48, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED The regular plenary session of the National Assembly on 23 September 2020, Wednesday, starts at 1300 p.m. Voting mode. Vote 94 MPs: 91 against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Moving on to item three on the agenda: SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE LAW FOR THE BUDGET OF THE STATE PUBLIC SECURITY FOR 2020 WITH THE IMPORTER MINISTERARY COUNCIL OF 3 SEPTEMBER 2020, ADOPTED ON FIRST VOICE ON 11 SEPTEMBER 2020 Is there a reporter in the room? We politely invite the rapporteur from the Budget and Finance Committee to brief us on the Second Voting Report. Here you are, Mrs. Stoyanova?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u328	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance on a Draft Law amending the State Social Security Budget Act for 2020, No 002-01-42, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 September 2020. Adopted at first vote on 11 September 2020. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance for Pre-accession Assistance (IPA II). The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u329	Are there any statements on the title of the Law? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm voting on the title of the Law. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u330	Under § 1, there is a proposal of the MP Nadia Klisurska-Zekova and a group of MPs: ................................................................................... In the new content of art. 11, para. 1, t. 2 the number..12.. replaces the The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u331	Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u332	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Our proposal is provoked by the fact that the size you propose is, firstly, extremely late, extremely insufficient. It does not meet the needs of people who receive minimum daily compensation. And I would like to say one thing that is important - the Bulgarian Socialist Party is consistent with these proposals relating to the minimum daily compensation. Unfortunately, with the setting of the budget of the Law on State Social Security, the minimum daily unemployment allowance is frozen every year and the people who receive this minimum unemployment allowance were thus far getting about 180 BGN. monthly. At the moment this proposal, which is being made, people who receive this minimum compensation will receive about 252 BGN, which means that it is a much lower income than the poverty threshold. Our proposal corresponds to the policies of the Bulgarian Socialist Party in the years when we ruled. At that time, this compensation was equivalent to about 60% of the minimum wage. Sixty percent of the minimum wage means minimum daily compensation of 17 BGN. I want to highlight something very important. In May trade unions and employers agreed on certain parameters for socio-economic measures. Then both sides recognized this measure for raising the minimum daily unemployment allowance to BGN 17 Unfortunately, in the face of the government, you're extremely late. Because this proposal had to be made when we did it under the Health Act when the emergency epidemic situation was announced. You do it at the end of the year and only for three months. So, ladies and gentlemen in charge, at least respect the people who are currently unemployed and who will meet the worst winter months with a normal minimum daily compensation, which is again equal to an amount less than the poverty threshold, but close to it at about BGN 357. In this regard, I hope that you will support our proposal, because it is clear in your motives that money in the state social security budget is there, we know that there is. The amount needed is 35 million. BGN, which will meet the needs of people who are unemployed and receive such minimum daily compensation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u333	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. - What's the line? I won't. A statement? Mr. Ademov and Mr. Gokov after that.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u334	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, let us try to explain what we are really talking about - a minimum unemployment benefit. There is a legal text that says that it should be 60% of the average daily wage or the average daily social security income. It's a legal text. At the moment with this proposal, although it is an anti-crisis measure, although it is until the end of the year, this text of the Law is being violated. And not just now. These 12 levs, which are now available, are calculated with another minimum insurance income, with another minimum wage, to put it mildly. That is, what is being proposed now is a measure that seeks a balance between the unemployed with a minimum unemployment benefit to seek employment and not to rely solely on unemployment benefit. Yes, but if the crown crisis continues after the New Year, if the labour market continues not to offer jobs, because unemployment is expected to be around 8% by the end of the year, which means that these people will remain at minimum levels of compensation, which level will not correspond to the legal text that we have all written down, so I believe that the proposal of colleagues does not require who knows what financial resources. With a billion leva fund, the unemployment fund is secured, you know, with a decision of the National Assembly. I think there is no problem with this proposal being supported.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u335	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Gokov, I hope you come to the stands and not wait for the microphone to be brought to you again.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u336	Dear Mr. Chairman, as soon as I can, I will say what I have to say. This proposal is part of the measures to assist those affected, particularly those who are already unemployed or are about to be released from work. I will not comment on the effect of what the government is doing as a whole, ensuring that people who are unemployed spend this crisis more easily. However, I cannot help but share the feeling of a large part of the Bulgarians that there is an enormous amount of money being spent, and the results are weak and I would say insignificant. This bill to amend and supplement the budget of state social security is part of these minor things that are being done to support people who are unemployed, unemployed. Moreover, some of these proposals recorded here should have been made a long time ago when the budget was adopted. Changes related to the amount and duration of the receipt of the unemployment benefits will be proposed, which will enter into force from 1 October 2020, and the minimum daily amount of the monetary unemployment benefit will be increased from 9 to 12 BGN. of 1 October 2020 From the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria and we argue that the direction is correct, but the steps are not brave enough. I made a statement and an argument as to why the average daily compensation of BGN 17 should take place, even when we accepted the state budget of public insurance for 2020. I will not repeat much of the motivation then, but I will say that in order to ensure more serious support and protection of the social situation of unemployed people in the conditions of the epidemic, from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, we again offer several things that I will protect to you. You propose that the minimum daily amount of monetary unemployment allowance should be increased from BGN 9 12 leva. This increase will affect 33,000 unemployed persons who are on minimum compensation. What is the logic of your proposal? There's no motivation for that in motive. Why 12 leva?? Why not 13 leva? Or 11 leva.? Why can't it be BGN 17?? Do not write in your motives why you stop at BGN 12. The question is why more than one third of the unemployed have the minimum compensation? If we look at this proposal, on the other hand, as early as 2008. At the Triple Coalition, the minimum compensation was BGN 151,20, or 63% of the minimum wage. After long suffering in the good management of GERB in quotes, you made it 189 BGN, that is, it became 37% of the minimum wage. A very symbolic increase and far below the level of the official poverty line for 2020, and 52% of that compensation. In this case, we propose a more significant increase in the daily demand for unemployment benefits to be 60 percent of the minimum wage. And as Dr. Ademov said, we must respect the principle of BGN 17. average daily, and BGN 357 monthly, we'll still be below the poverty line. This is mandatory, and not as an anti-epidemiologic aid measure, in support of people left without a livelihood, but as a logical step. In order to follow the logic in determining the amount of compensation, it will be fair, since we have legally determined the amount of compensation of 60% of the average insurance income of the person, to determine the lower limit of 60% of the minimum wage, or 17 leva. midday. Another motive is that with these small steps with which you raise the compensation, you make no sense and the motivation for needing insurance at all. Who would want to take money from his salary and then receive such low benefits that are below the poverty line?! I don't want to go into details, but I don't know if this has gone through the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation, but I would just remind you that when the state budget was adopted at the end of last year, the opinion of the two unions was to be 60% of the minimum wage or 17 levs. daily. So I urge you to support our proposal, moreover, that it does not require so much money against the backdrop of what you are spending pointlessly... [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u337	Your time!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u338	...in the form of measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u339	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. - What's the line? Here you are, Mrs. Stoyanova, for a line. [[Reply from the National Representative Georgi Gokov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u340	Mr. Gokov, in order that there is no doubt in the Chamber that the texts have not been agreed and passed through the Trilateral Council, and this must happen by law when we have a change in the law on the corresponding budget, I would like to inform you that they have passed and are unanimously supported by both employers and trade unions.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u341	A hole, Mr. Gokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u342	[[BSP for Bulgaria]] : Dear Members of the National Assembly! I haven't expressed any doubt about whether he's passed. I don't know if he went through the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation. That's not the point. He has passed through the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation, but I have reminded you that the views of the trade unions already at the previous adoption of the budget of the State Social Security was what we are proposing at the moment. I have no doubt that it is unanimously supported by trade unions and employers because it is logical. And I want to tell you that you, if you don't support BGN 17. average daily compensation, which is absolutely logical to happen, we will support 12 BGN because it is still an increase of 9 BGN. But from 10 years of management of GERB it is a shame to do this to keep it at 53% of the line of poverty, it is funny! So don't convince me again how unanimous it was adopted by the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation, but just listen to what you're talking about, because it's going to take some time and you're going to have to pick it up again, only then you'll still get it out as your merit and you'll have forgotten what you were talking about from the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u343	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. [[Relations from the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov.]] Mr. Lazarov, control your nerves, because he's surrendering to the rest of his colleagues! Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u344	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We in GERB's parliamentary group support the proposal that the minimum amount of monetary unemployment benefit should be BGN 12, precisely because the policy we are leading is to reduce unemployment. The fact that we are currently proposing to be BGN 12 is because of the crisis that we all know and we are all aware of, but really, you know, what were the unemployment levels before the CIVID-19 crisis occurred. Yes, this proposal will affect about 30,000 people. It is not a late proposal, it is absolutely timely and we do not support the opposition's proposal to be BGN 17 because it is almost a double increase in these funds, which actually stimulates people to be unemployed. Therefore, we will support the proposal for 12 leva. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u345	Thank you, Mrs. Iron. - What's the line? I can't see. Are there any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the unacceptable proposal of the MP Nadia Klisurska-Zekova for new content in art. 11. Vote 97 MPs: 16 against 65 abstentioned 16. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the importing text for § 1. Vote 98 MPs: 97 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u346	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. Proposal by the MP Nadia Klisurska-Zekova and a group of MPs: The following amendments and additions shall be made to the transitional and final provisions: 1. A new § 2 shall be created: ..................................................... In the Code of Social Security (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 54a, para 2 t. 3 is amended as follows: "3." on unpaid leave under art. 160, para. 1 of the Labour Code recognised as service; 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 54b the following amendments shall be made: (a) para. Four is canceled. (b) in para. 7, p. 1 the words "up to 30 working days in one calendar year" shall be replaced by "up to 30 working days in one calendar year" and "up to 30 working days in one calendar year" shall be replaced by "up to 30 working days in one calendar year." 54a, para. 2, p. The following information shall be provided in accordance The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u347	Statements on Mrs. Klisurska's title and proposal? Here you are, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u348	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The proposal we are making to amend the Transitional provision of the Social Security Code is made again in relation to the social economic measures that were half-carried and which were introduced into the Health Act. Then, as you recall, in the Labour Code, we decided that people who in this calendar year took 30 working days of unpaid leave should be respected for their work experience during this year because a lot of parents, a lot of people, took this opportunity to protect themselves from the coronavirus. Unfortunately, in the Social Security Code, in art. 54, para. 2, p. 3, there is a hypothesis which regulates the right to acquire monetary benefit for unemployment. [[Noise and lines from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u349	Quiet, please! Mr. Vangelov! Boris Vangelov!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u350	There is a common line that a common line has been introduced. [[Noise and lines from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u351	Mr. Kasabov! Can you stop for a second? How many times do I have to mention your names? If you'd like, I can take you out of the courtroom? Continue, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u352	In order for a person to be entitled to receive monetary unemployment benefits, he must have provided 12 months in the last 18 calendar months. Unfortunately, 2020 has been a critical year and many people have lost their jobs. Only during the three-month period. March, April and May, the unemployed increased by another 100 thousand people and became about 200 thousand, which means that many people have considered the cases for obtaining money compensation. Unfortunately, it is most likely that this is our proposal, at the moment it corresponds precisely to that amendment. The people who this calendar year... Because before Mrs. Zaharieva, when commenting on your measure, it is within 2020. The measure for the 60 days unpaid leave to be respected for service is within 2020. That is also our proposal. We didn't use a number in our proposal for a reason. On the contrary, it corresponds to art. 160 of the Labour Code, which regulates what time is recognised as service. We didn't record the days anywhere. So also to those people who will not be entitled to monetary compensation and who have been on unpaid leave for 60 days this year, let us give them the right to receive monetary unemployment benefit. Because yesterday at the Commission, I will say this, the representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy said that people actually have the opportunity in 18 calendar months to provide 12 months. But there are assumptions and such a question has been asked to the Ministry: are there people who have not received such a right? Yes, there are, they are few and let us respond to this need as a good socio-economic measure. As you can see, our proposal applies precisely to your proposal, which you have made to amend the Labour Code with this idea, people who have taken more unpaid leave and do not have these 12 months needed for the right to monetary compensation, to receive such a right at least by the end of 2020, which has been critical, which has been extremely socially unfair to certain social groups. So I hope you'll support him. This budget will not cost almost any amounts, because people are really few.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u353	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. Do you have any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? There aren't any. Let's move on to the vote. I suggest to your attention the title of the section
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u354	No, no. Mr President, Transitional and Final, as there is another final provision, so to remain Transitional and Final Provisions.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u355	Transitional and final provisions. Voting mode. They voted 105 MPs: for 105, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the unacceptable proposal of the MP Nadia Klisurska and a group of MPs. They voted 105 MPs: 15 against 55, abstention 35. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u356	Under § 2 there is a proposal of the MP Nadia Klisurska and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 2 to fall." The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... (1) The unemployment benefits under art. 54b, para. 4 of the Social Security Code, granted with a starting date from 1 October 2020 to 31 December 2020, including, shall be paid for a period of 7 months. (2) The term under para. 1 shall also apply to unemployment benefits under art. 54b, para. 4 of the Social Security Code which has not expired on 1 October 2020
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u357	Are there any speeches? Mrs. Klisurska, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u358	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The proposal we are making is once again one of those proposals on socio-economic measures for which trade unions and employers reached an agreement as early as May. For me this is an injustice which takes away the right of the people who have provided themselves, who have 12 months of insurance under the Fund "Unemployment" within 18 calendar months, only because they have benefited from this right within three years, they receive the minimum unemployment benefit. This is precisely the hypothesis of art. 54b, para. 4. With your proposal you are currently making an increase in the period within which they will receive a minimum unemployment benefit, because in the text of the Labour Code it is indeed regulated that all these people receive such a minimum compensation. Our proposal is that all people who make contributions on the basis of their remuneration, which are exhausting these 12 calendar months, who have been provided within 18 calendar months, are entitled to compensation under the general order, namely 60% of the remuneration for which they have been provided. In confirmation of my hypothesis, I would like to tell you that when calculating the right to monetary benefit for unemployment, the income of the person is taken within 24 calendar months back. So all these people will receive their adequate remuneration for which they have been provided within the months that are regulated in the Social Security Code. Let us not deprive them of the right to their normal compensation. In support of this proposal, which I am making, not only trade unions and employers, but also in connection with the socio-economic crisis, I appeal to you to pay attention to this proposal because, at the moment, the really unemployed, who, within three years, have benefited from such unemployment benefits, have increased, and they have increased because of the crown crisis, because businesses have stopped working. In the assumptions in which you propose, they will receive the minimum unemployment allowance, and let's say they were provided at much higher insurance thresholds, which give them much different rights. Moreover, the Ombudsman of Bulgaria made such an appeal to us as MPs, with a letter in the middle of the year regarding socio-economic measures, and this was one of its proposals. So only in the hands of the majority sits the will and the decision to take this proposal in mind, to vote for it, and when we go to fight what Mrs. Zaharieva said to create such an opportunity that the labour market has movement, unfortunately, we are currently not going into such economic months, then we can think about returning some texts and another order to apply under art. 54b, para. 4. In relation to everything I have said, please reconsider your attitude towards this point, to support us in this proposal, and for people to receive, in general, the normal unemployment benefits for which they have been provided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u359	They'll get it for four months!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u360	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. After that hot speech, with hot calls, are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other speeches? Mr. Gokov, come in. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u361	You're three people in the courtroom! Aren't you ashamed?!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u362	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! You challenge me to tell you that by yelling and by not listening to what you are talking about from the stands, you do not make a good impression. You're just saying how you're highly socially disoriented and you don't want to help people in the crisis... [[Strong noise in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u363	Your people will not support you! [[Replications from the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Milena Damyanova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u364	Quiet, please. Quiet and order, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u365	...in a difficult situation. [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] Mr. Chairman, I don't think this is a normal setting for work, but if you think it is...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u366	Don't make me interrupt the meeting!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u367	That's it. You justify the Bulgarian saying that the satiate of the hungry does not believe. Otherwise, it is commendable that you increase the deadline for receiving the monetary compensation for unemployment under art. 54b, para. 4 of the Social Security Code, where the person has acquired the right to compensation in a period less than three years from the previous use, from four to seven months and during those seven months to receive the minimum compensation. I say it is commendable and that we will support it, because now I will repeat it is a step in the right direction. However, we offer you something else to drop this period at all. You may not know why this period was introduced. Because there was a time when such a requirement in the Social Security Code was not available, and in nine months' work people received full compensation. The limit for receiving full compensation was introduced so as not to be abused by employers and unemployed with the right to unemployment benefit, but this was at the economic upsurge, at the rise of the economy. However, now that we are gathered here to talk about helping people who are experiencing a severe social situation as a result of the crisis, I think we are talking about quite other things. Currently, more than 230 000 Bulgarians are unemployed, in particular 232,975 people over 73,000 more than 2019. Seventy-seven percent is unemployment and it will grow. Dr. Ademov made an estimate that it would reach about 8%. Mine is far more pessimistic, I think it will reach about 9% by the end of the year due to the relief of workers from seasonal employment and so on. Most of these people are not entitled to full compensation because of this particular restriction in art. 54b, for this three-year period. There is nothing wrong with us canceling the period, and when, on a proposal from those who are dealing with employment and unemployment, the National Assembly considers again to vote on such a limitation period to receive full compensation so that people can be But now is not the time. This has dictated our proposals, and I ask you to reconsider, although from the reactions I hear from this House, I do not expect such a thing. But please think about it and let's do it because people deserve it, they pay their insurance. And only when they can get adequate benefits, then they'll be happy to pay their insurance. Otherwise we'll chase them and chase them for that insurance. Think again about what this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u368	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Are there lines? I don't see anyone who wants to. Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. First, I put to the vote the Commission's non-supported text of Mrs Nadia Klisurska's proposal and a group of MPs § 2 to be dismissed. They voted 104 MPs: 17 against 73, abstention 14. The offer is not accepted. Negative vote, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u369	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We of the Patriots would support this sensible proposal of BSP, but if they are 11 people in the Chamber and do not support their own proposal and say that they are concerned about the people, there is no way we can support it! Can such hypocrisy, Mrs. Klisurska and Mr. Gokov? You're eleven people, and you think we're supposed to be poor people! And here the sayings of the City of the Hungry does not believe, and so on. Well, you're 11 people in this room, Mr. Gokov, that's a shame! [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u370	I shall put to the vote the text on § 2 on a proposal from the Commission. They voted 105 MPs: for 105, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u371	Proposal of MP Nadia Klisurska and group of MPs: § 3 is being created. .................................................. The cancellation of art. 54b, para. 4 of the Social Security Code shall also be effective for persons whose insurance is terminated at the date of entry into force of this Act if the termination is in 2020, as a result of measures and restrictions relating to the CoVID-19 pandemic. The time limits referred to in art. 54a, para. 4 of the Social Security Code shall begin with the entry into force of this Act. The Commission does not support the proposal. It's related to the previous one, which wasn't accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u372	Are you withdrawing it or not?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u373	I'm withdrawing it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u374	Withdrawn, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u375	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 3: .................................................. In the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Corporate Income Tax (prom., SG No. ...) in § 38, para. 2 words within three months of the entry into force of the amendments and additions to the regulations under para. 1s and 1s are replaced by "Until 31 December 2020'.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u376	Thank you. Statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u377	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! So far, we have been discussing and talking about benefits, about insurance, and suddenly, once again, in the most vicious way, there is a text that concerns completely different matter. This is a practice in the legislative process of this National Assembly. First of all, the proposal has been tabled in violation of both the Rules and the legislation, but this time it has surpassed itself, because it is an extension of a period that has already expired. This period has expired on 12 September, and today we will vote on its extension. I think there's no more vicious offer than that. I can give him a lot of features. I'd suggest the importer withdraw it. I know she won't. I appeal to you not to vote because it will not solve any problems, but will create much bigger problems. Regarding the substance of the proposal. We are talking about a change in the Law on excises and tax warehouses, which was adopted at the end of 2019 with the reasons of the importers that a serious problem should be solved with the deviations from excise goods taxation in companies that have been authorised to exempt from excise duty. That's right, we have supported this decision. The Law requires the Ministry of Finance, within three months from 1 January 2020, to make a regulation for the introduction of these control requirements, as well as to amend the Rules of Application of the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses. Yes, but the Ministry of Finance has failed to comply with this decree with the Law and instead of on 30 March the Ordinance and the Rules were issued on 12 June. The requirement of the Law is within a three-month period for all excise-free end-users to translate their activities into the requirements of the Law. The deadline is September 12th. If by 12 September there are users who have not introduced these requirements, they must be sanctioned. Obviously, there are some, it was good for someone here to say who these companies were who did not comply with the Law and ultimately, colleagues, it was about excise goods. We all know very well how serious the problem is. And so, with a light hand, by the way, finally in today's topic, which we are debating, if we could quietly pass this text. I call on you, don't support him! Be assured that there will be very serious problems in relation to this text, so as responsible MPs, although the horizon of this Parliament is short, be true parliamentarians and Bulgarians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-17.u378	Thank you, Mr. Turnover. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm calling off the debate. I shall put to the vote the text proposed by the Commission for the newly created § 3. Vote 87 MPs: 74 against 12, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. The Law on the Budget of State Social Security for 2020 has been adopted. Several messages: Dear Members of Parliament, I remind you that since 22 September 2020, Tuesday is a public holiday and a non-working day for the whole country, proposals according to the order of art. 53, para. 3 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly for inclusion of points in the forthcoming Programme for Work of the National Assembly for the period 23 September 2020 can be made until 18:00 on Monday, 21 September 2020. On the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I inform the Members of the National Assembly that on 17 September 2020 a Decree No 184 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria was received under art. 101 of the Constitution, by which the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judicial Government was adopted by the National Assembly on 3 September 2020. It is entrusted to the leading Committee on Legal Affairs to report to the MPs the President's statement and the reasons for it. Communications of parliamentary control on 18 September 2020, Friday: 1. Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev will answer a question from the MPs Dragomir Stoinev, Anton Kutev and Krum Zarkov. 2. Minister of Finance Kiril Ananiev will answer two questions from the MPs Valentina Naydenova; and Dimitar Boychev. 3. Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will answer a question from the MPs Tasco Ermenkov and Vasil Antonov. 4. Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova will answer one question from the MP Kristina Sidorova. 5. The Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov will answer two questions from the MP Radostin Tanev and one question from the MPs Lubomir Bonev, Kristina Sidorova and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov. 6. The Minister of Economy Lachezar Borisov will answer a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Minister of the Interior Hristo Terziyski, to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Yavor Bojankov; - Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov to two questions from the MPs Stefan Apostolov; and Georgi Mihailov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova, one question from the MPs Lyubomir Bonev, Nikola Dinkov, Radoslav Stoychev and Nikolai Ivanov. Due to the use of annual leave in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Dessislava Taneva will not participate. Due to the use of sick leave, the Minister for Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. In the absence of the country in the parliamentary control meeting, the Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Affairs Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva will not participate. Due to the exhaustion of the agenda, I am adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
