ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u1	Dear colleagues, take your seats. Please, registration mode. We'll wait, there's a problem with the registration. We'll make a new attempt to register. Cancel registration. New registration in 10 minutes. Found at 9:10 p.m.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u2	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. I will introduce you to the draft work programme of the National Assembly for the period from 9 to 11 September 2020: "1." Abort the authority of a Member of the National Assembly. 2. Draft decisions on changes to parliamentary committees and delegations. The representatives of the National Assembly are Daniela Daritkova; Dora Hristova; Gergana Stefanova; Daniela Daritkova; Halil Letifov. 3. Draft Law on the ratification of the Voluntary Guarantee Agreement under art. 11 of Council Regulation (EU) 2020/672 SURE European Temporary Support Instrument to mitigate the risks of unemployment in exceptional circumstances due to the outbreak of COVID-19 between the European Commission and the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 4. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Preschool and School Education Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The project was adopted in the first vote on 9 July 2020. 5. Draft decision to award state monetary awards for special merit to the Bulgarian state and nation. Importer is the Council of Ministers' point one for Thursday, 10 September 2020. 6. Bill for withdrawal from the reserve, made by the Republic of Bulgaria under art. 31 of the Convention on the Status of Citizenship-free Persons Adopted in New York on 28 September 1954. Importer is the Council of Ministers on the Second for Thursday, 10 September 2020. 7. Second vote on the Draft Law implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/125 of 16 January 2019 of the European Parliament and of the Council on trade in certain goods which could be used for the application of death penalty, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. Importer is the Council of Ministers. Adopted on 9 July 2020 in the first vote. Point three for Thursday. 8. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents. Importer is the Council of Ministers' point four for Thursday. 9. First vote on the Bill for Supplement to the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2020. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 10. First vote on the Draft Law amending the State Social Security Budget Act for 2020. Importer is the Council of Ministers' second item for Friday, 11 September 2020. 11. Parliamentary control. Please vote on the programme presented to you. Vote 184 MPs: 117 against 43 abstentions 24. The motion is accepted. A declaration on behalf of a group, please, Mr. Simov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u3	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Today is the 76th anniversary of the change of September 9th. [[Noise and lines. Members of the National Assembly from the National Assembly of the Bulgarian Rhodolyptics, the OP, non-members of the PG, DPS and a large part of GERB leave the Chamber.]] This date continues to provoke political passions that show at least that there is life in it and that there is some truth hidden. Goodbye! To get to that truth, however, we must go through tons of political innuendo, through media darkness, through pseudohistoric charlatanism and targeted lies, and obviously also through leaving MPs. In other words, today it is modern to talk only badly about 9 September. I'll do it differently, I'll say the good thing. When the legions of revenge tried to take over the history books, everything that even hints at the battle against fascism in Bulgaria was thrown out of them with spite. We had to learn to believe that there was no fascism in Bulgaria, and this made the killed without trial and sentence thousands of victims of the brown plague absolutely uncomfortable. Their lives and ideals just didn't fit into the perverse version of the story they tried to sell us. Chased once in life, the victims of Bulgarian fascism became once again the object of persecution, and this wind of dark passions did not surpass the brightest images of Nikola Vaptsarov, of Hristo Smirnenski, of Geo Milev. But I promised to talk about the good stuff. What country is Bulgaria in the 40s of the last century? We can throw away all the myths about one of the most developed countries in Europe, which is in luxury, pleasure and lace. The textbook history is always a captive of the political banality of everyday life, but the true history belongs to the people and I will therefore try to restore Bulgaria's image to the memories of my two grandfathers. One of my grandfathers is from a village near Plovdiv, which is called Konush village, where it is a nightmare to live spring time in those years. There's not a single paved street in it, and because of the mud in the spring, the children had to move on stilts. Several generations live in a house, processed a piece of land, practically don't have any money, but live as primitive people with the exchange of goods. Power does not think of them at all, and the very idea of power seems strange in a village, which, although it is on a black earth, is in utter misery. It's exactly the same with my other grandfather. He's from a village called the Rudy Field seven kilometers from Nova Zagora. And let us not be fooled: in that royal Bulgaria seven kilometers equals the distance to the moon. A backward, absolutely unmodern village with 17th century agriculture. When the whole of Europe uses tractors, it plows with donkeys and oxen in Bulgaria. In fact, it is this image that must clearly break the ideological lie about the prosperous kingdom. On top of that, this country becomes Hitler's ally, giving full freedom to its guard mentality. And today is anyone trying to tell me that the people who have rebelled against this madness, who have imagined Bulgaria as a country for all, and not for few, are political criminals. Not at all! September 9th is the answer to a major problem of the country's unconventional modernization, of the blocked economy, of the parasitic elites, of the status quo of the permanent gesht, of the pay for the severed guerrilla heads, of the fascist legions. By tomorrow we can talk about the mistakes after the 9th, but denying the date itself means denying the gust of a different life, the urge for a social state, the idea of another possible Bulgaria. The 9th effort is not just a single party's product for nothing. A union of parties fight for this change, they want this change, they die for this change, and the change is obvious. On 9 September there is a huge social effort that transforms Bulgaria. The signs of this transformation are still obvious to this day. Take a walk around the country. In every village there was a community center, big hospitals, schools, businesses that were now privatized and wiped out because no one cared how people would live from now on. It took her right hand much longer to destroy them than it was necessary to build them. It's very easy to connect the bad after the 9th with the effort we see on the date itself. It's a replacement, and we all know it's a replacement. However, the true meaning of the date is in hope. I suspect that this is why the great efforts are being made to deny this day, because the urge for another possible world has never gone out. Injustice, inequality have their fierce opposition, which is always burning again because poverty is the greatest crime of today. Before our eyes, we see more and more people turning to the past, not an indictment, but a melancholy look. Because the failure of the 30-year transition, the failure marked with tear gas against protesters young people, will cause generations to return to the meaning of September 9th to understand his lessons, his dreams, his hopes, and, of course, his mistakes. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u4	Thank you, Mr. Simov. I'll introduce you to the messages: Bills and draft decisions from 2 September to 8 September 2020... [[Reply from GERB: "Declaration! "]] Declaration, Mr. Biekov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u5	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! [[Leaving the Chamber of Deputies are returning.]] On the night of September 8th against September 9th, a coup took place of the government of Konstantin Muraviev. Konstantin Muraviev is a representative of the Agricultural Movement, an opposition before 1944 and an opponent of Bulgaria's alliance with Nazi Germany. Konstantin Muraviev's government has been overthrown with the help of the Soviet army. This same government declared war on Germany during its eight-day rule. After 9 September, the government of the Fatherland Front organised mass repression and escalated political violence, bringing it to an extreme form of political violence by the state for 45 years. Today's date must be remembered because it has many dimensions. Today's date should remind us that Bulgaria has not lived in peace and tranquility throughout its history, that there have been times when Bulgarians have killed Bulgarians in the name of foreign interests. What we need to know is that despite all criticism of the country's democratic transition, the practice of political violence carried out by the state has been terminated over the past 30 years. And this is an achievement of both the entire Bulgarian people and all the political forces involved in the democratic transition. After 1989, the Bulgarian opposition, which was then represented by people who were in the communist concentration camps, did not want to make a rematch and commit political violence against the communist party's activists. To this day, some of the victims blame the then democratic opposition for not doing this. However, the truth is that thanks to this wise action of the anti-communist opposition Bulgaria is today a member of NATO, of the European Union and ranks among the richest in the world in the club of the rich, as is the European Union. 9 September is a lesson for all Bulgarian politicians and, above all, for those who have to defend the national interest. This date is directly dependent on geopolitics! There is no revolution by the Bulgarian people! The Bulgarian people did not participate in the coup, which was organized and implemented by foreign political factors in order to move Bulgaria to a radically different civilization and geopolitical sphere. The Bulgarian people did not choose who to rule it on 9 September! He was moved forcefully and mechanically into a completely different field and for 45 years he had to endure the violence against not being where he belongs, namely where he is today in Europe, in developed and civilised countries! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u6	Declaration Mr. Mihov on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u7	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the United Patriarchs because we have witnessed a declaration from the Left based on gross historical forgery, of brutal use of history for political purposes. The thesis on fascism in Bulgaria before 9 September 1944 was solved by the Bulgarian historical science even in the time of Todor Zhivkov! Academic Ilcho Dimitrov, who was a minister in the government of BSP, proved in the 1980s that in Bulgaria a fascist regime similar to that in Italy and a national socialist regime similar to that in Germany never existed! In Bulgaria there were fascist parties and organizations, but they never exercised political power. The last government before 9 September was broadcast by the democratic opposition, in which a government reserved four seats for ministers from the Fatherland Front! Military minister in this government is General Ivan Marinov, a member of Soviet intelligence, who after 9 September was appointed by the new authority as commander of the Bulgarian troops! And I can't explain how a overthrown fascist government could broadcast the commander-in-chief of the father-in-law of the Bulgarian army, which is leading heavy battles in the final phase of World War II! Why, however, does BSP need the thesis on Bulgarian fascism? Because he must argue his historical right to inherit the country's governance during the time of Todor Zhivkov either of real socialism or of state socialism or of totalitarian regime. However, I would like to ask the heirs of the BCP: do they remember what started the transition in Bulgaria? It did not start with a NATO landing and welcoming US troops to the Eagle Bridge, but started with a Plague of the BCP! And I would like to ask the leadership of the BSP: does it support the decisions of the December Plenum of the Bulgarian Communist Party of 1989, which talk about a severe economic and social crisis in the last 10 years thanks to the management of Todor Zhivkov and his surroundings, because they already bring flowers to the monuments of Todor Zhivkov? Where is the truth, gentlemen, in the decisions of the December plenary of 1989, or in the revival of the myths of progressive socialism? The issue of the Bulgarian villages is a very interesting issue which also concerns the very important topic of demographic development of the country. Believe me, the average number of Bulgarian villages at the end of World War II is 1500 inhabitants! We are talking about the average population in the Bulgarian villages. The average age of the Bulgarian population at the beginning of the last century is 24 years and 5 months! At the end of World War II Bulgaria was 7 million, with only the first 45 years of the 20th century of 3.5 million being doubled in migration, in two national catastrophes, in four wars! What kind of demographic bang did we have during socialism?! Out of 7 million we have barely reached 9 million in 45 years of zero migration, external, in the absence of social and military conflicts! The BCP itself in the 1970s began to think very seriously about the demographic crisis and this is due to the destruction of the Bulgarian village, as a result of the agricultural policy of the BCP since the late 40s and the distorted industrialization of Bulgaria! The socialist modernization of Bulgaria after World War II crashed along with the catastrophe of the socialist system and the economic interaction and political integration within SIV! This is the truth of our historical development! For the People's Court and the repression after World War II. The People's Court was not a wartime retribution. It was a political revenge because the People's Courts were extraordinary courts appointed by the Committees of the Fatherland Front! In these courts and in the uncontrolled terror after 9 September, and today we cannot answer how many people have died! But it is clear that even in 1946 the repression was continued even against those people who contributed to 9 September! By the way, on 9 September political forces were involved who were responsible for the repression of the communists of 1923. This is where Geo Milev was mentioned! But, gentlemen, the executioners of Geo Milev borrowed ministerial chairs on 9 September. The representatives of the Military Union, of the "Secnos" of Kimon Georgiev and Damian Velchev, directly responsible for the repression in 1925, were ministers in your government at the Father's Front! In this sense the revival of obsolete propaganda clichés from the 40s and 50s is a rude challenge to Bulgarian history, to Bulgarian historical science and in no case lead to understanding, but against the introduction of a new division and revival of the serious problems of the Bulgarian society since the end of World War II! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u8	Thank you, dear Mr. Mihov. Now we move on to the messages: Draft decision to complete the composition of the permanent delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. The representatives of the National Representative Gergana Stefanova and a group of MPs. Draft decision to produce elections for the Grand National Assembly for the adoption of a new Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. The representatives of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. A bill amending and supplementing the Law on Weapons, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles. The representatives of the National Assembly of Manoil Manev, Alexander Ivanov, Plamen Nunev and Krasimir Tsipov. It has been allocated to the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order as the leader of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Draft Bill for Supplement to the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2020. Importer "The Council of Ministers." The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It has also been allocated to the Health Committee. Draft Law amending the State Social Security Budget Act for 2020. Importer The Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Draft law on ratification of the Agreement on the termination of bilateral investment contracts between the Member States of the European Union. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Draft decision to complete the composition and management of the permanent delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Importer supplier Daniela Daritkova. Draft decision to fill the composition of the Temporary Commission on the occasion of the acquisition by the Bulgarian Development Bank. The representatives of the National Assembly are Halil Letifov, Hamid Hamid and Ahmed Ahmed Ahmedov. Draft decision on a change in the leadership of the Committee on Foreign Policy. Importer supplier Daniela Daritkova. Draft Law amending the State Property Act. The representatives of the National Assembly are Alexander Nenkov, Maria Belova and Andrian Raykov. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. In the National Assembly on the basis of art. 133, para 3 of the Public Finance Act received reports on the implementation of the programming budgets as at 4 September 2020 by the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Tourism, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, the Ministry of Youth and Sport, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, the Administration of the President, the Commission for Protection of Personal Data, the Commission for Protection of Competition, the Commission for Financial Supervision, the Communications Regulation Commission, the Commission for Disclosure of Documents and for Announcement of Bulgarian Citizens to State Security and the Intelligence Services of the Bulgarian People's Army, the Commission for Energy and Water Regulations, the State Fund, the State Agency for State Reserve and Military Reserves, the State Agency for Technical Operations, the State Agency for the first half of 2020. In full volume, the report of the State Agency is located in the Register for National Classified Information, Department of Information and Security, the Department of the State Agency of Electronic Management and the State Commission of Information Security, the National Bureau of Special Intelligence Control, the Nuclear Regulatory Agency, the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria, the National Security Service, the National Statistical Institute. The reports are made available to the Committee on Budget and Finance and to the relevant portfolio committees and are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. The National Assembly received from the Court of Auditors between 30 July and 3 September 2020: - Annual report on the state of financial management and control systems and the internal audit of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019. - Audit report with an opinion for an audit carried out on a report on the implementation of the budget of the State Social Security for 2019. - Audit report with an opinion on the audit of the budgetary expenditure of the Bulgarian National Bank and their management for the period 1 January 31 December 2019. - List of audit reports for the audits carried out for July 2020. The same are published on the Court's website. - Updated audit work programme for 2020. - Opinion on the consolidated annual Internal Control Report, the public sector in the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019. - Opinion on the Financial Management and Control Report and the Internal Audit at the Supreme Judicial Council for 2019. - Final audit report containing unmodified opinion on the consolidated annual financial statement of the National Assembly for 2019 and attached to it certified financial statement. The materials are provided to the Budget and Finance Committee and to the relevant committees and subcommittees and are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. The National Assembly received a Report of the Chairman of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund on the performance of its functions under the Bankruptcy Act for the period 22 July 21 August 2020, and Protocol No 26 of a meeting of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund, held on 25 August 2020, at which the Report was reviewed and discussed. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report and the Protocol were sent to the Budget and Finance Committee. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Moving on to the first point of the program: TERMINATION OF A PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVE. An application was received from Mr. Daniel Kirilov to the President of the National Assembly, which reads: I hereby state that I am resigning on the grounds of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. I present to you an official: Project! DECISION terminating the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Ends the mandate of Danail Dimitrov Kirilov as MP from the twenty-third electoral region of Sofia. I shall put to the vote the draft decision presented to you. 135 MPs voted: 127, against 3, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. We continue with the second item on the agenda: PROJECTS FOR CHANGES IN PARLIAMENT COMMITMENTS AND DELEGATIONS. I present to you: Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Commission for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED She elected Nikolina Panayotova Angelkova as a member of the Commission for Monitoring Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling. Please, voting mode. They voted 130 MPs: 120, against 2, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u9	The next change is related to the composition of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 3 and Art. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He released Boris Petkov Kirchev as a member of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. 2. She elected Nikolina Panayotova Angelkova as a member of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Please, voting mode. Vote 128 MPs: 119, against 2, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION amending the composition of the Committee on Agriculture and Food The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 3 and Art. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He released Altimir Emilov as a member of the Committee on Agriculture and Food. 2. He elected Boris Petkov Kirchev as a member of the Committee on Agriculture and Food. Please, voting mode. They voted 122 MPs: 114, against 1, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION on completing the composition of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians Abroad The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Altimir Emilov as a member of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad. Please, voting mode. 110 MPs voted: 104 against 1, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Committee on Culture and Media The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Kalin Lubenov Velov as a member of the Committee on Culture and Media. Please, voting mode. Voted 108 MPs: 103, none against abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION amending the leadership of the Committee on Foreign Policy The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 3 and Art. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Plamen Ivanov Manushev as Vice-President of the Foreign Policy Committee. 2. He elected Plamen Ivanov Manushev as Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy. 3. He elected Hristo Georgiev Gajev as Vice-President of the Foreign Policy Committee. Please, voting mode. Vote 117 MPs: 111, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. ? RESPONSIBILITY? to complete the composition of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 38 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Elena Vladimirova Angelinina is elected vice-president of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Voting mode. Vote 112 MPs: 106 against 1, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Next. ? RESPONSIBILITY? to complete the composition and management of the permanent delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 38 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Dimitar Borisov Glavchev as the main representative and head of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. [[Applause from GERB.]] Voting mode. They voted 106 MPs: 100, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Congratulations, Mr. Glauchev! [[Applause from GERB.]] Next. ? RESPONSIBILITY? to complete the composition of the Temporary Commission on the occasion of the acquisition by the Bulgarian Development Bank (Bulgarian Development Bank) at 28 million AD. 265 thousand. 200 shares of the capital of the First Investment Bank The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 and para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 37, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Elena Vladimirova Angelinina is a member of the Temporary Commission on the occasion of the acquisition of 28 million Bulgarian Development Bank AD. 265 thousand. 200 shares of the capital of the First Investment Bank. 2. She elected Krastina Nikolova Taskova as a member of the Temporary Commission on the occasion of the transfer of 28 million Bulgarian Development Bank. 265 thousand. 200 shares of the capital of the First Investment Bank. Voting mode. They voted 104 MPs: 98, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. I offer your attention. ? RESPONSIBILITY? to complete the composition of the Temporary Commission on the occasion of the acquisition by the Bulgarian Development Bank. 265 thousand. 200 shares of the capital of the First Investment Bank The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 37 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He elected Yordan Kirilov Tsonev as a member of the Temporary Commission on the occasion of the acquisition of 28 million Bulgarian Development Bank AD. 265 thousand. 200 shares of the capital of the First Investment Bank. 2. He elected Sergey Manushov Kichikov as a member of the Temporary Commission on the occasion of the acquisition of 28 million Bulgarian Development Bank AD. 265 thousand. 200 shares of the capital of the First Investment Bank. Voting mode. Vote 98 MPs: 92, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. And the final offer is ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the completion of the composition of the Energy Commission The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Mitko Kostadinov Polychronov as a member of the Energy Commission. Voting mode. 110 MPs voted: 103, none against abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: LEGISLATION FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE GOOD ARRANGEMENT AGREEMENT AS REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE 1. 11 OF REGULATION (EU) 2020/672 OF THE SURE COUNCIL The Committee on Budget and Finance will introduce you to the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u10	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Voluntary Guarantee Agreement under art. 11 of Council Regulation (EU) 2020/672 SURE - European Instrument for Temporary Support in order to mitigate the risks of unemployment in exceptional circumstances due to the outbreak of COVID-19, between the European Commission and the Republic of Bulgaria, No 002-02-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 August 2020. At a meeting held on 2 September 2020, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that bill. The bill was presented by Mrs. Marinela Petrova, Deputy Minister of Finance. The European Instrument for Temporary Support in order to mitigate the risks of exceptional unemployment (SURE) as a result of the outbreak of COVID-19 has been established by Council Regulation (EU) 2020/672 of 19 May 2020 in response to the problems arising on the labour market following the spread of the pandemic. The instrument will complement national measures by providing financial support to Member States to cover sudden increases in public employment retention costs. It will also finance certain health measures at work aimed at reducing health risks and ensuring safe working conditions. The total budget of the Instrument is 100 billion. Euros. The financial assistance will be granted in the form of a loan, with a limited duration of validity by the end of 2022. The European Commission will raise funds from the financial markets to provide them subsequently to the Member States. In order to raise the funds for the financial assistance granted under the Instrument, a commitment by the Member States is required to provide counter-risk guarantees by the Union of a total amount of 25 billion. Euros. The amount of the guarantee required by a State shall be proportionate to the relative share of its gross national income in that of the European Union. The granting of the guarantee by each State is regulated in an individual guarantee agreement under art. 11 of Council Regulation (EU) 2020/672 of 19 May 2020 concluded between the European Commission and the Member State. With the voluntary guarantee agreement under art. 11 of Council Regulation (EU) 2020/672 of 19 May 2020 the Republic of Bulgaria undertakes, upon request, to provide irrevocable and unconditional guarantees of a maximum amount of 107 million. 466 thousand. EUR 500 (210 million) 186,000. 204,70 BGN) . The guarantee agreement will be in force until one of the two dates which occurred earlier: (1) The date on which all loans taken by the Member States are irrevocably paid in full and no additional loans may be issued more, or (2) 31 December 2053. On 24 and 25 August 2020, the European Commission presented proposals for financial support of 87,3 billion to the Council. EUR of 16 Member States within the SURE instrument, including the Republic of Bulgaria. According to the proposal of the Commission of the Republic of Bulgaria, financial support of 511 million will be provided. Euros. In the context of the above, the National Assembly adopted changes to art. 70a of the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2020, as with para. 3 is provided for an opportunity within the year the Council of Ministers to issue state guarantees by concluding a guarantee agreement with the European Commission under art. 11 of Council Regulation (EU) 2020/672 of 19 May 2020 (OJ L 316, p. 1).' The agreement is subject to ratification by a law of the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4, 5 and 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. After the discussion of the Draft was held, a vote was held which ended with the following results: with 16 votes in favour, without abstention and abstention, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposed to the National Assembly to support the first vote Draft for ratification of the Voluntary Guarantee Agreement under art. 11 of Council Regulation (EU) 2020/672 of the European Parliament and of the Council SURE European Temporary Support Instrument to mitigate the risks of unemployment in exceptional circumstances due to the outbreak of COVID-19, between the European Commission and the Republic of Bulgaria, No 002-02-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 August 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Statements? Mr. Ademov, please come to the stand.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u12	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I begin by saying that our parliamentary group will support the proposed Draft for the Voluntary Guarantee Agreement between the European Commission and the Republic of Bulgaria. In a few words, let's say exactly what this is about. In May 2020, the Council of Europe in the framework of Regulation No 672 came forward with a proposal to the European Commission to mobilise a financial resource within 100 billion. EUR to support employment, as well as to support measures to combat COVID infection and, more precisely, the effects of COVID infection. So this financial resource of 100 billion. EUR will be used to preserve and maintain employment, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, for first-line health and safety measures for those involved in the fight against COVID 19. In order to mobilise this financial resource of 100 billion. EUR, the European Commission, with the countries that voluntarily participate in this guarantee agreement, raises one resource of 25 billion. EUR, Bulgaria's participation in this guarantee resource is around 210 million. lv. This 25 billion guarantee fund must be fully completed in order for the parties involved in this voluntary agreement to have the opportunity to withdraw loans because it is a loan agreement. The opportunity offered by the European Commission to the Republic of Bulgaria is to withdraw a loan within the period until 2022 and the amount of this loan is just over 1 billion. lv. It is about the fact that this financial resource must be used to support employment measures and this financial resource must be used as a building resource to the national measures taken in individual countries that are part of this guarantee agreement. We are aware that Bulgaria has at this stage allocated to employment measures within the framework of the instrument 60/40 around 1 billion. BGN, which until now has been used slightly below 200 million. lv. to save 200,000 jobs. So Bulgaria, together with the national measures and with the complementary measure resulting from the signing of this guarantee agreement, will have the opportunity to withdraw an additional 1 billion. BGN to be used to support employment. The big question now is: are we ready for how to use this financial resource, although it is clear that it is about supporting the additional costs related to the COVID infection? From our parliamentary group, we believe that there should be readiness, regardless of the dynamics of the development of the coronavirus infection, for measures to help preserve employment, because the expectations are that during the autumn-winter period the number of unemployed will be sufficiently increased. Unemployment is expected to be around 300 000 people, so with this additional financial instrument by the end of the year Bulgaria will have the opportunity to have this additional financial resource. Finally, I would like to call on the other parliamentary groups, as at the meeting of the Budget Committee, to support the proposals for a guarantee agreement, because without the countries that voluntarily participate in this guarantee agreement, the idea of the European Commission mobilizing this additional 100 billion financial resource cannot be pursued by the European Commission. Euros.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. - What's the line? I won't. Are there any other speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. We're putting an end to this debate. I offer to your attention the acceptance of: THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Voluntary Guarantee Agreement pursuant to art. 11 of Council Regulation (EU) 2020/672 SURE European Temporary Support Instrument to mitigate the risks of unemployment in exceptional circumstances due to the outbreak of COVID-19 between the European Commission and the Republic of Bulgaria A single member. Ratification of the Voluntary Guarantee Agreement pursuant to art. 11 of Council Regulation (EU) 2020/672 of the European Parliament and of the Council SURE European Temporary Support Instrument to mitigate the risks of unemployment in exceptional circumstances resulting from the outbreak of COVID-19, between the European Commission and the Republic of Bulgaria, signed for the Republic of Bulgaria on 8 July 2020 and for the European Commission on 15 July 2020. Final provision It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal. Voting mode. They voted 111 MPs: 105, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u14	Dear Mr. Chairman, I ask for a procedure on the basis of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall be in the same sitting.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u15	Thank you. Voting mode. They voted 111 MPs: 105, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u16	Thank you. THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Voluntary Guarantee Agreement pursuant to art. 11 of Council Regulation (EU) 2020/672 SURE European Temporary Support Instrument to mitigate the risks of unemployment in exceptional circumstances due to the outbreak of COVID-19 between the European Commission and the Republic of Bulgaria Sole Article: Ratification of the Voluntary Guarantee Agreement under art. 11 of Council Regulation (EU) 2020/672 of the European Parliament and of the Council SURE European Temporary Support Instrument to mitigate the risks of unemployment in exceptional circumstances resulting from the outbreak of COVID-19, between the European Commission and the Republic of Bulgaria, signed for the Republic of Bulgaria on 8 July 2020 and for the European Commission on 15 July 2020. Final provision It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u17	Are there any speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to make a statement. I put to the vote the name of the Bill; Article only; Final provision and paragraph alone. They voted 116 MPs: 111, none, abstention 5. The agreement has been ratified.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u18	Let's continue with: The Law on Modification and Complement of the Law on Pre-school and School Education. Report of the Committee on Education and Science. You are welcome, Mrs. Damyanova, to present the Report to us.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u19	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Pre-school and School Education Act No 002-01-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 June 2020, adopted on the first vote on 9 July 2020. The Law on pre-school and school education is amended and supplemented by the Law on pre-school and school education. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u20	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the Law. Vote 105 MPs: for 104, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u21	Under § 1, there is a proposal of the MP Irena Anastasova and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 1" is out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Elena Pesheva: "Paragraph 1" is amended as follows: after the word "child" a comma is placed and added to the cases under art. 283, para. 9 of the school year starting in the year of the age of 4 years of the child The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u22	Thank you. Statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u23	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! With colleagues from BSP for Bulgaria we are proposing in § 1, namely the inclusion of children who are four years old, in compulsory pre-school education to drop out with the following arguments. Our educational system is not yet ready to respond to this challenge, as there are insufficient places in kindergartens, especially in large cities demand far exceeds supply. And this year thousands of children in Sofia lost their place in kindergarten. We make this proposal with the clear awareness that quality care and early childhood education are particularly important, but we must also take into account the realities as they are: there is a shortage of trained teachers, there are no adapted curricula, there is no analysis of the already compulsory pre-school preparation of five-year-olds. Although early childhood development is important, there is still no public consensus on the proposed policy. They are not convincing enough and the reasons why we are offered this solution on the basis of international research, which claims that the longer children spend in kindergarten, the higher their results in the educational process. You could also find research right in the opposite direction. It is not enough that the effect of the results that the children of the fourth grade have achieved is taken into account. That's why I think this text is good to drop. It's nice to have wide access to children in kindergarten, but that doesn't require his need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u24	Thank you, dear Mrs. Asenova. Are there any lines? Any other speeches? Here you go, Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Yes, we had a lot of debate on the subject as early as the first paragraph, both in the Commission, at first and second reading, and in the Chamber. The BSP colleagues continue to defend the position that we do not need to cover children more fully in preschool education, but our position is very clear. It is the result of a consistent policy in the name of including and giving every child an equal access to quality education to start at a very early age, because all the research that has been done not only in Bulgaria but throughout Europe shows that the sooner children are covered, the better it will affect their development in the future, the sooner we give children the chance to be in the education system, the better results we will achieve afterwards. Both parental organizations and our trade union partners and all those interested in the field are strongly in favour of this proposal. I really call on this to be the last conversation whether to have it or not, and on the contrary, to think in another direction that the more chance we give our children to be in school, to be in some good conditions, the better it will be for them. Moreover, the duration of this proposal is too extended for all municipalities to fulfil their commitment to providing places in the municipal kindergartens, so that when the municipalities are ready, then they will be involved. You can see that it is also a serious investment in the direction of construction of new kindergartens in large municipalities, and in small ones, this problem does not stand, so I do not think it is too early to make this proposal, but rather in a very timely manner, and I think that this will have an extremely good effect. Moreover, not to forget the extremely high quality that preschool education has in Bulgaria, but to give colleagues a chance to do the best for our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u26	Thank you, dear Mrs. Zaharieva. Are there any lines? Here's a line, Mrs. Anastasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u27	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I think that Mrs. Asenova very correctly reflected our position and I would not have taken the attitude if Mrs. Zaharieva had not told an untruth, I quote: "The BSP colleagues continue to think that it is not good to cover children more fully in preschool education. Both at a meeting of the Commission and at the first reading of the Law we said both colleagues and I personally that we are not against the full coverage of children. It is no coincidence that with the adoption of each budget, we are submitting a proposal for dropping the fees precisely in order to facilitate children's access to pre-school education, but we do not think and rightly believe that there is no way to introduce compulsoryity and say that by 2023 we will create conditions because that is what we are saying right now. We have said that by 2020, there should be a full-time one-dimensional organization of the learning process, and we didn't do it, we are talking in schools now about 2027. So we agree and we think that it is good to have full coverage of children, to have real access to all those who want to attend kindergarten and kindergarten, including, but we do not think that neither in the years until now nor in the years from now will the necessary efforts be made to do so, and we do not want to accept anything just to look good in the eyes of parents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Anastasova. Is there a second line? Here you are, Mr. Bogdanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u29	Dear Mrs. Zaharieva, I agree with what you have expressed as an opinion on the amendments made to the Preschool and School Education Act. I think you could have said a lot more things that we can see are causing resentment or controversial moments in the opposition. You could have said that still kindergarten is mandatory for five-six-year-olds. We extend only this period by one year earlier, which is with the very clear purpose and intent that many children in Bulgaria do not have these facilities and do not have these opportunities in a family environment to train, to train and survive if you wish, as can happen in early childhood in kindergarten. These children live under incredibly miserable conditions, live under any threshold of sanitary minimum and household conditions, of normal existence, as are the other Bulgarian children. And one of the serious ideas of this change that we from "United Patriarchs" have demanded and insisted for a long time was that the children from marginal groups could enter the kindergarten early in order to socialize, to be able to acquire habits, to be able to learn in Bulgarian, because for some of them it is a non-maternal language. This will all lead to an opportunity for the integration of these children, not for idle talk, with which they usually flood us here by the opposition, or wish to pour money into a mudbag at the beginning of the school year, without a clear idea of why this should be done. This is a way to actually like the parents when we give some money without knowing what they are for, but when we bring the children into this early age, they will be able to learn, they will be able to be educated, and they will have a better chance to become worthy Bulgarian citizens at one next moment, not to miss out on several more generations of such Bulgarian citizens who did not socialize and are already antisocial and disintegrated by the Bulgarian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u30	Thank you, Mr. Bogdanov. Third line? Hole, Mrs. Zaharieva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Yes, in fact, the real debate is not whether or not it is useful for children to be covered by 4 years of age, the real debate has shifted in another direction. In this direction, I'm just going to say a few things in my ass. For the last 10 years of the government in the country were built only in Sofia.. renovated and built, over 100 kindergartens, not to mention how many investments are made throughout Bulgaria, in municipalities that have a clear and definite priority of education. Moreover, you know, colleagues, that further in the texts we are putting forward for the first time a very important measure that supports parents, for large municipalities, where there is still a shortage of places, to find a way to compensate for the care of children at this age. Again, yes, the deadline is sufficient for us. It is possible that somewhere will occur after three or four years still a small shortage, but I think that the policy that is being pursued and the way in which this problem is being resolved clearly and categorically gives us reason to say that we will manage and we will have this maximum coverage of children at 4 years of age at compulsory pre-school age within the year we put in the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. Mr. Mihov, come in, you have a say in this.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u33	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today is a good day for Bulgarian education! What we're looking at has a long story. The issue of compulsory kindergarten for four-year-olds, I remind you that this is how the five- and six-year-olds work, has its history for more than six years. Ever since the initial adoption of the Preschool and School Education Act, I and my colleagues were importers of this idea, today it is realized. I know that this topic, although at a professional level there is almost complete agreement, is convenient in political speaking for the introduction of fears, fears and messages to voters. What, though, does a compulsory kindergarten mean? I think this is, above all, an obligation of the state and municipalities. Whether there is an agreement between people about the necessity of kindergarten. I think that the facts are eloquent.. more than 90% of the Bulgarian families want, wish and are ready to ensure that the kindergarten is attended by their children. The fact that, above all, in Sofia and in some other major cities, this problem is extremely acute shows that society trusts this educational institution. Here were said good words above all about our teachers because they build and maintain the level of the Bulgarian kindergartens, but we also have to say a good word about the Bulgarian municipalities, which in their vast majority lay, lay and take systematic care of the development of this institution. Next, it is very important to say that this commitment has not only a social aspect and a dimension for the support and integration of a part of the population. For us this is an important demographic tool that should provide peace to Bulgarian families so that they can do what is called family planning. It is clear that when the state has a commitment to provide for every child in Bulgaria kindergarten for now from 4 years of age, it gives calmness to the Bulgarian parents to make their family planning for a longer period. And the thesis that we are not ready to implement it immediately, I think that there is a good enough solution in the proposals further in the texts, which clearly engages municipalities with one long enough period to implement the necessary and investment, and organisational measures to ensure the necessary places in kindergartens. Let us tell ourselves the truth that this situation in Sofia and in some other cities is due to a short-sighted one, not to say otherwise, a policy of a number of local authorities in the last 30 years. Many here we have gone through the municipal councils and remember what votes, what replacements, what sales of municipal property for decades, including kindergartens, so that today there are no terrains in Sofia where kindergartens can be built corresponding to the requirements. The accumulated deficits in local policy in this direction cannot be resolved immediately, even with the support of the state. I appeal to a responsible attitude towards this text and I hope, I am convinced, that it will be adopted by an impressive majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u34	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u35	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Preschool age, the period between 3 and 7 years is key for children's development. This is the period in which social-emotional, cognitive, intellectual and mostly linguistic skills are formed. This age is even more critical for children whose mother tongue is not the language of the relevant education system, in our case. "Whose mother tongue is not Bulgarian. All international studies show a great difference between children who have attended preschool and those who have not attended. This difference is even more visible, even greater when it comes to children whose mother tongue is not in the relevant educational system. More than that. International research, our external assessment, can also produce such results, and there is a big difference between whether they went one, two or three years. Deprivation of educational environment in this period of children whose mother tongue is not Bulgarian is fatal. Research has shown that it is fatal for their further educational development. Most often these children enter with deficits in I class. These deficits cannot be compensated by the system of school education, are pushed to the V - VII class, are dropped out and are not suitable for the labour market. And vice versa, those children, who were enrolled in preschool, have a better chance of reaching high school education, getting professional and professional fitness. The best assessment since we heard that there were no analyses can be given by the primary teachers. The primary teachers are those who welcome children at the entrance to school education and children who were or were not respectively in preschool age. 92% of primary teachers have been researched, and there is a big difference between whether or not children were in kindergarten. As one teacher said, not only is there a big difference, there is no resemblance. Should it be mandatory, can we only do social measures? I am pleased to hear from the opposition Mrs. Anastasova's words that we are against the full coverage of the children, but is the issue only with social instruments to achieve it, or is a principle of compulsory? There is a principle of compulsoryity in every educational system and it is necessary to guarantee the right of children. It may sound eclectic and compulsory, but the right of children to education is guaranteed by the obligation of parents, because we cannot assume that all parents are rational. The range of children 5 and 6 years of age is 91 " 92%, and 78% at 4 years of age respectively. The difference between 12 and 13% is over 90% children from families who lack respect for education, caught by indirect criteria. That is, whatever social benefits there are, even though kindergarten provides better food, better environment and better personal support, if there is no parental attitude, if the principle of mandatory is lacking, we cannot achieve this full range. In this sense, this measure is our most important integration measure, it is key to cross the reproduction of illiterateness from generation to generation. All countries are going in this direction. France has decided on compulsory preparation of children for 3 years, soon Romania has decided on mandatory preparation three years before entering the first grade. I have been to a meeting of the Council of Ministers, it is a common European policy. For Bulgaria it is even more important, given the large percentage of children from families in which there is no attitude towards education, whose mother tongue is not Bulgarian and for whom early participation in kindergarten is critical for their further coverage. The mandatory scope is even more mandatory for the state and municipalities than for the parents. You said you were skeptical, that enough effort would be made. I say that I am even more skeptical if it is not necessarily that enough effort will be made. In this sense, this will be a measure that will force the state and municipalities, I hope, in the coming years, but in fact the state is already forcing itself, as you know that a programme of 210 million has been voted on in three years. It is in the State Budget Act for this year, amounting to 70 million for the construction of new kindergartens, an additional 65 million were allocated to Sofia Municipality. lv. For the construction of kindergartens all things in this direction. Yeah, we'll probably say they're insufficient, but there's a three-year delay in the law. We believe that in this period of three years all municipalities will cope, realizing that the biggest problem in Sofia Municipality is. The shortage will be overcome, but the problem is that we have children who are in multiple groups, and children who are 5 and 6 years old are covered in preparatory groups in schools. That's why they have to keep building kindergartens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u36	Thank you, dear Minister. Are there any other speeches? I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. I will put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Irena Anastasova and a group of MPs. They voted 125 MPs: 31, against 74, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. I am now putting to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Elena Pesheva. They voted 129 MPs: 26, against 70, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. I am now putting the text of the importer to the vote for § 1. They voted 133 MPs: 107, against 12, abstention 14. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u37	Under § 2 there is a proposal of the MP Irena Anastasova and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 2" is out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u38	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal of the MP Irena Anastasova and a group of MPs. They voted 130 MPs: 31, against 78, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 2. Vote 131 MPs: 108, against 20, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u39	Proposal of the MP Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Galya Zaharieva, made in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 3: .................................................. In Chapter 5, Section III is created art. 68a: Art. 68a. Where, due to exceptional circumstances, the presence in the forms of pedagogical interaction in kindergartens and compulsory pre-school education groups in schools is suspended, the pedagogical interaction of the Minister of Education and Science shall be carried out, as far as and if possible, from a distance in an electronic environment by using the means of information and communication technologies and with the participation of parents.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u40	Statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u41	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! When a colleague shows legislation and, in principle, that should be the case, every text, every word in this bill has a certain meaning. Every word has its weight. In this regard, without entering into philological disputes, we had made an offer to include the proposed text and parental participation as an addition. This proposal was actually the Minister's and was recognized by colleague Galya Zaharieva after our reaction, but at the same time we seem to have failed to get into the heart of the problem. And the problem is this: with this text we introduce a remote form of training in kindergartens as well. Colleagues, there's been a very serious debate in society over the last six months. But when we talk about remote form, we all think of the Bulgarian school with all the pros and cons of this problem, of course, speaking of extraordinary circumstances, talking about a global pandemic. With this text we give the opportunity to realize in exceptional circumstances a remote form of training. No matter how many and what projects are implemented in kindergartens, these single units should not compensate for the mass of education, I am talking about preschool, throughout Bulgaria. Such a debate in society has not been made. And we from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms want to be heard. That is, we do not currently have that opinion of parents and parental organisations which must necessarily be pronounced on this article. We don't mind. We will abstain because of the specifics of these children's age. We're not talking about students here, we're talking about children from three to seven years old. That's a remark, that's a statement from us. I think this discussion should have taken place before this proposal was made between first and second readings. Because, if you recall, in the Law of the Council of Ministers, this proposal was absent. There we talked about distance learning, we talked about e-schooling in an electronic environment only for students. Thank you, and I'm holding back.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u42	Thank you, Mr. Mehmet. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u43	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I take the floor on this proposal that we have made with our colleagues, not for anything else, but to disprove an untruth. This untruth is that we have inserted this text without it being agreed. On the contrary, it is a text that is proposed by principals and teachers of kindergartens and parents. Among those kindergartens, which are not few, who during the state of emergency were able to create conditions, to help families in the upbringing, the education of the youngest children. Many municipalities even implemented projects in this area. There's the parents' polls, there's the parents' feedback, so colleagues who aren't familiar, I'm calling them to do it because we've had a lot of time to do it. So the proposal that we have made, first of all, does not introduce remote form, let us not delude ourselves. This is a proposal that enables, if possible and has this clarification, during an extraordinary epidemic situation, when, under different circumstances, we do not have present participation in the forms of pedagogical interaction or, more simply, when children do not attend kindergarten because of the epidemic, with this text, we give teachers the opportunity to support the education of these children when they are at home. Once again, this has already been spent, this has already been proposed, it has been discussed and Minister Valchev can support these words. There's the polls and the parents' feedback. Besides, I say again, if possible. So those kindergartens who couldn't do it, as there were during the emergency situation, wouldn't be obliged to do it. It's an opportunity. The entire bill, I said, and when we looked at the first-vote texts in the House, the philosophy of the Bill is that it gives more opportunities. More opportunities for all children. That's the spirit of the offer we made with our colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Damyanova. The line, Mr. Mehmed.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I continue to defend this opinion that a debate has not been held on this topic in Bulgarian society. On this bill there are two topics on which it has been widely spoken and everyone has spoken no matter what opinion has prevailed. One topic is this point, which just passed for the range of four-year-olds. The other topic that we will discuss again on this bill is the remote form of training for students. These are the two topics that have gained widespread popularity and everyone has spoken. If this topic were so important, it should have found its place when the Bill was submitted at first reading. So it turns out that such an important reform for kindergartens, even though this is not a mandatory moment, we are talking about an opportunity, but an opportunity that is enshrined in the Law acquires its imperative, moreover, that this pandemic is not over at this time. In this sense, I do not agree that we have said an untrue thing at the moment. This is a proposal that has been tabled between first and second readings. Certain principals of kindergartens, I understand that they have implemented projects, we are not against it, and it is good to have such projects, but with regard to the childhood of these children, the question arises as to how prepared they are for these information and communication technologies? How healthy is it? Were both child psychologists and therapists and other experts pronounced here? Thank you. [[Single applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u46	Second line? A hole?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u47	Dear Mr Mehmed, I will really ask the representatives of the kindergarten directors who attended the Commission meeting who expressed an opinion and whose, again, I say, proposal we tabled to provide feedback from the parents because that we have not followed a debate does not mean that it has not been implemented and has not been realized. Secondly, the other accent in your speech was how much information and communication technology are healthy for children and how old? Yes, this is a debate that needs to be held. But this is a debate that should not stop the opportunities we give with the Bill during an emergency epidemic situation. This is a debate that, however, does not concern only education. Because each of us can see children of two, sometimes even less years old, who are quite calmly handling smartphones, tablets and so on, which are not part of the educational process. Here we are already talking about forms of pedagogical interaction, in which it is very well assessed and assessed by teachers, by educators let us have a little more confidence in them that they can assess how to do the training and activities of children so that they do not harm their health. I would say again: the topic of how healthy the use of these technologies, of what age, is really a topic of debate in society, because it also concerns children's activities with these devices outside kindergartens, outside schools and so on, so it is coming. We also agree to participate in this topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Damyanova. Mr. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u49	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The issue really has a degree of discussion because, on the one hand, we do not want children to have gaps in acquiring competences. At preschool age, the acquisition of competences is at stake, especially in emergency situations when kindergartens close for a long time, as it was this spring. On the other hand, however, we want to limit the interaction of children with devices and screens at this age. On 16 March he started training in an electronic environment in all schools. The fact is that we refrained from launching such training for kindergartens. But as a result of local talks, as a result of conversations with parents, this interaction happened. This interaction took place in a much more limited form within two hours, we subsequently regulated it or more recently gave instructions to the next two hours, and the interaction of children with electronic devices is up to half an hour. If we have to write something in the regulation, it will be one of the texts. However, bear in mind that this is not mandatory, we have said to the extent and if possible, bearing in mind that this is regulated as an emergency and compensatory alternative. Only as an emergency and compensatory alternative, not as a complete remote form. Mrs. Damyanova in the back already said some things. We do have a debate about the use of devices. Because if this is about half an hour of interaction with devices, there are other studies that show that children on average interact with screens or stand in front of screens over four hours. Sometimes it's easier for a parent to leave the device or turn on the TV. The same happens in kindergartens in the rooms, but studies in the field of neurobiology, neuropsychology are adamant that prolonged interaction with devices has a negative, not to say a detrimental impact on the formation of intellectual development of children at this age. We should rather call on parents and kindergartens to limit children's access to devices, as this prevents the formation of the cerebral cortex, prevents the formation of social-emotional skills, abstract intelligence and so on. Leads to obesity, leads to immobilisation, leads to poor motor skills, all other things. Most often it's at the expense of all the other skills. That is why we are committed to organising such a debate. We're talking about four hours on one side and half an hour on the other just to make up for the gaps, and half an hour of effective pedagogical interaction, not a promiscuous viewing of a TV or another electronic device.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u50	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Are there any other statements? I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 3 with a text on the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u51	120 MPs voted: 109, none, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] It's a rethink mode. They voted 121 MPs: 109, none, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u52	Proposal of the MPs Milena Damyanova and Galya Zaharieva. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Milena Damyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the . (6) Where, due to exceptional circumstances, the attendance educational process in the school is suspended as well as in the cases under para. 1, 3 and 5 days are study days if conditions are created for students to study from a distance in an electronic environment under the conditions and under the order of art. 115a, para. 1, 4 and 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u53	Is there a statement? I don't see anyone who wants to. I put to the vote the creation of a new § 4 with the text which has just been read from the stands. They voted 117 MPs: 117, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u54	Under § 3 there is a proposal of the MP Irena Anastasova and a group of MPs: In § 3 in the creations art. 115a The following amendments shall be made: 1. Alinea 2 is out. 2. The current al. 3 " 5" becomes respectively. 2............................................... The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Tanya Petrova. The Commission generally supports the proposal under para. 1 and does not support the proposal under para. 2: (2) In innovative schools as an element of innovation in relation to the organisation related to improving quality and improving the results of the training, attendance training in the school for students from V to XII grade shall be allowed in a daily, evening, combined or completed form, as well as under art. 108, para. 5, t. 1 to be combined with distance learning in an electronic environment, but for not more than 20 percent of the classes of one or more study subjects from the school curriculum of the year. Proposal of the MPs Milena Damyanova and Galya Zaharieva. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Milena Damyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 5: .................................................................................. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 115a: Art. 115a. (1) Where, due to exceptional circumstances, the presence of the educational process in the school is suspended as well as in the cases referred to in art. 105, para. 1, 3 and 5, except for the announcement of a day for celebration of the celebration of the municipality, following the order of the Minister of Education and Science, the training of students recorded in daily, evening, completed, individual and combined form of training and in a dual system of training shall be carried out, as far as and if possible, from a distance in an electronic environment by using the means of information and communication technologies. (2) In innovative schools as an element of innovation in relation to the organisation related to improving quality and improving the results of the training, attendance training in the school for students from V to XII grade shall be allowed in a daily, evening, combined or completed form, as well as under art. 108, para. 5, t. 1 shall be combined with synchronised distance learning in an electronic environment, but not more than 20 per cent of mandatory and/or optional hours of one or more study subjects for which this is applicable. (3) The choice of the student under the conditions of art. 12, para. 2 and after the order of the principal of the school, in the case of the necessary technical and technological means, distance training in an electronic environment for no more than 30 school days may also be carried out for a student enrolled in a daily, evening, completed, individual or combined form of training, as well as in a dual training system which, for health or other respectable reasons certified by a document, cannot attend a school. (4) In the event of an exceptional epidemic situation, where the attendance educational process at the school has not been discontinued, in the case of the necessary technical and technological means, training in a daily, individual or combined form of distance in an electronic environment may be carried out for an individual student for more than 30 teaching days until the end of the exceptional epidemiological situation: 1. if, for health reasons certified with a medical document, the presence of the student at school puts his life or health at risk; 2. if, for health reasons certified with a medical document, the presence of the student at school puts at risk the life or health of persons with whom he lives at one address; 3. by choice of the student under the conditions of art. 12, para. 2 and after authorisation of the head of regional education management. (5) In the cases under para. 4 t. 1. 3 where the school cannot provide remote school hours, distance learning opportunities in an electronic environment may be provided by another school designated by the regional education management which offers such training or organises a remote form of training. (6) Distance training in an electronic environment shall include distance curricula, self-preparation, current feedback on the results of training and evaluation. (7) Distance training in an electronic environment shall be carried out by teachers within the agreed time of their work, with the execution of the norm teaching work being regulated in the state educational standard for the normalization and pay of the work.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u55	Debate regime. Do you have any comments?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u56	Dear Members of Parliament, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! The texts proposed by you in the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Preschool and School Education Act have undergone drastic transformations between first and second readings, and this is a fact, which means only one thing, unfortunately, you do not think what you are proposing when offering it. You will explain it, of course, with the dialogue that you hear and accept what is being offered to you and change it. No, it's not like that. If there was a dialogue and understanding, you would accept the proposals made by the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. Some of them repeatedly before this PID, in the state budget, because they are dictated by the direct relationship with those working in the educational system and with the parents. Now from this tribune I will thank all my colleagues, teachers and directors from all over the country who gave their opinion, and you have witnessed this on the proposed texts as soon as you submitted a ZID to the Preschool Education Act. At the invitation of the members of the Committee on Education and Science from the BSP in June, through social networks we urged them to be active and the colleagues proposed from all over the country sent their proposals. In fact, on their basis, we proposed our texts. Alas, they are not accepted and will not accept most of them. I'll share something else. It will be useful for all who will get started with the next texts of PIDs to the Preschool Education Act. Dear Members of Parliament, it is more worrying that the opinions of teachers and directors on other texts in the Law, which are not the subject of our work now, the fourth year does not stop and are an alarming signal of their scope. This means only one.. really, the suggestions you make are sometimes unthinkable. Unfortunately, this is at the expense of the educational system in Bulgaria another, exhausted by nonsense. At a meeting of the Education Committee on 3 September 2020, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] amending Regulation (EU) No
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u57	Mr. Chairman, we're at second reading!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u58	...argumentated our proposals to drop the newly created art. 115a, para. 2, because in it the questions and ambiguities are much more than the answers I will not read to you again [[a line from the National Representative Vejdi Rashidov: "Don't! "]] , and the minister said that everything will be explained in regulations. Dear Members of Parliament, how will you explain something that is not clear before its presentation? That is why my appeal to everyone in this House is: vote to drop this text and, accordingly, the current paragraphs 3 and 5 become paragraphs 2 and 4. The explanatory texts in the regulations are the half-work of as much as the 800 electronic devices purchased by the Ministry of Education these days for the work in the electronic environment: 90 thousand are teachers in Bulgaria. On the eve of the opening of the new school year, I call on all MPs today to work at the level of responsibility we bear for the education system in Bulgaria. Thank you. We expect support.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u59	Thank you, Ms. Nencheva. Try to adhere to the specific text of the paragraph under discussion. Are there lines? I won't. Any other speeches on the third paragraph? Mrs. Damyanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u60	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! To actually clarify what the BSP colleagues propose. Colleagues suggest that the possibility of innovative schools or schools offering as an innovation so-called distance learning will only be allowed up to 20% of the hours to be held in this way. However, what I would like to draw your attention to is that such an opportunity for innovative schools we have at the moment, because when we introduced this type of school with the Law, it meant that they would be able to offer and, accordingly, the Commission in the Ministry to approve various innovative forms of training. That includes, by the way, this possibility. I don't know why the schools haven't taken advantage of it at the moment. I'm talking about these schools, which have now expressed a desire and willingness to offer it. What do we do with the Law? Actually, we're putting the limit on it. We say that up to 20% of the hours can only be held in an electronic environment. To be honest, there's no such thing as a restriction right now. The text in the Law is necessary precisely because of it, because it cannot be proposed on a sub-legal level. So much for this text on innovation. I'll say this isn't about all the schools, it's just about the ones they want. It may even be just one class to them, and this will happen after approval by the Ministry of Education and Science after they pass all the criteria they have from the relevant committee, so I personally have no concerns about the implementation of this text. With regard to the texts that we proposed with colleagues, I would say that they are indeed the result of the discussions that we had between first and second readings with parents, with teachers, with doctors and concerning the various opportunities that students and parents will receive for choosing their training during the emergency epidemic situation that we are currently in. In this sense, I would like to make an editorial amendment: in para. 4 t. 3 The choice of the student is to add here the student or parent, i.e. the choice of the student or parent under the conditions of art. The text goes on and on to synchronize this text with the text on self-training. So according to the lawyers, the reference is only enough. In any case, we have used the text on self-training and, in my opinion, they must be uniform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u61	- What's the line? I don't see anyone who wants to. Any other speeches? There aren't any. Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u62	Mr. Chairman, my procedure is in connection with the vote. I request a split vote on the paragraphs of this article. 115a, because we cannot be convinced by the importers that the paragraph in question, which we have proposed, is extremely necessary because, as Mrs Damyanova said, so far, innovative schools have had the opportunity to do so if they were willing. In our view, this text also introduces an additional division between schools, as if they are no longer sufficiently divided by material and any other possibilities to divide them by this sign, and I do not think that this is crucial for the education system at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u63	Is there a reverse opinion? No. I put to the vote Mrs. Anastasova's proposal for a separate vote on para. 2 and para. 3... 5........................................................................... They voted 121 MPs: 21, against 81, abstention 19. The offer is not accepted. Are there any other statements under § 3? I don't see anyone who wants to. We are going to vote on the proposals made. First, I vote on the proposal of the MP Irena Anastasova and a group of MPs, which the Commission has not supported. They voted 125 MPs: 25, against 85, abstention 15. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Tanya Petrova under para. 2. They voted 110 MPs: for 4, against 40, abstention 66. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Mrs. Damyanova's editorial amendment in art. 115a, new para. 4 t. 3 after the student to add the parent. Isn't that your proposal, Mrs. Damyanova?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u64	She's not new. This is already the new text of art. 115a, para. 4 t. 3 After the student, add the parent or parent.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u65	Yeah, that's the offer. Please, voting mode. They voted 122 MPs: 107, against 2, abstention 13. Editorial amendment accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer with the respective editorials, and § 3 shall become § 5. They voted 114 MPs: for 101, against none, abstentioned 13. The motion is accepted. With that, we adopted § 3, which becomes § 5. I'm adjourned for 30 minutes. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u66	Continue, Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u67	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4, which shall become § 6. According to § 5, there is a proposal of the MP Tanya Petrova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5, which shall become § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 177 the following 1. In para. The second sentence shall finally be a comma and shall be added if necessary to extend the general and additional support provided in kindergartens, schools and centres of support for personal development, and depending on the specifics of the activities and at a distance in an electronic environment by using the means of information and communication technologies. 2. They're creating an al. 3... . (3) Where, due to exceptional circumstances, the presence of the educational process in the school is suspended as well as in the cases referred to in art. 105, para. 1, 3 and 5, except for the announcement of the celebration day of the municipality, following the order of the Minister of Education and Science, the support for the personal development of children and students according to their specifics shall be carried out as far as and if possible from a distance in an electronic environment. (4) Support for personal development may be carried out from a distance in electronic environment and in cases under art. 115a, para. 3 under the terms of art. 12, para. 2 and after the order of the director of the institution. (5) Support for personal development from a distance in an electronic environment shall be carried out by pedagogical specialists within the agreed duration of their working hours.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u68	Statements, coworkers? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 4, which shall become § 6; and the version proposed by the Commission, for the text of § 5, which shall become § 7. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u69	Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs: screated § 5a: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. Art. 183 is amended as follows: Art. 183. Care for the health of children and students in kindergartens and schools in preschool and school education is carried out under the order of the Health Act. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u70	Statements? Mrs. Naydenova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u71	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The proposal of the importer for compulsory preschool education of children from 4 years of age is an excuse to ask the question: Is our health system ready to provide full protection for these children in today's condition in kindergartens? The Preschool and School Education Act responds in a single article of " 183," adopted about 10 years ago and ensuring that care for the health of children and students is carried out only through two things: firstly, ensuring access to medical care and, secondly, health education programmes and healthy lifestyles. The other side of the answer, however, is the Health Act, which we constantly update, improve and improve, which describes the activities in the health offices, kindergartens and schools, training within the approved curricula and which contains the text of the current article. 183. And despite what has been done so far, there is still too much work in relation to the 4-year-olds because of their anatomophysiological, neurological and psychological characteristics. We have other people's experience, but we don't have the opinions of pediatricians specialists, and every medical student knows that nerve cells are getting a complete look between the third and seventh years, and between the fourth and seventh they're getting the coroner's drive centers. Because of what has been said so far, we propose in art. 183 of the Preschool and School Education Act refers to the Health Act, linking the two laws and enabling care for the health of children and students in kindergartens and schools to be carried out by the Health Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u72	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal of the MP Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs. They voted 99 MPs: 15 against 77, abstentioned 7. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u73	Under § 6 there is a proposal of the MP Irena Anastasova and a group of MPs: The following amendments shall be made in § 6: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 letter (s) is the new item that has been created. 10 is amended as follows: ..10. Payment of fees payable by parents or guardians for the use of kindergartens in cases of compulsory pre-school education; 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: The following amendments shall be made: (a) the introductory sentence is amended as follows: 9. (b) the created para. 9 is amended as follows: The State budget funds for the payment of the fees for the use of kindergartens under para. 1, t. 10 shall be made available under the budget of the municipality concerned for municipal kindergartens or under the budget of the relevant senior authorising officer with the budget of the State kindergartens. (c) the created para. 10... is The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of MP Anna Slavova and group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 283, para. 1 is created a new t. 10 with the following content: For the payment of fees due for free training of children in kindergartens and kindergartens. 2. Previously on "T." 10 becomes t. 11. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 283, para. The second sentence is added: The Council of Ministers shall determine the amount of fees, the calculation methodology and the method of payment of the funds under point 8. 10. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Milena Damyanova, MP Milen Mihov and group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Milena Damyanova, MP Milen Mihov and group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Milena Damyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 283 the following 1. In para. 1: (a) A new item shall be created. 10: ..10. support the payment of the fees payable by the parents for the feeding activities of the children in compulsory pre-school education, outside the country's funding; (b) To be created t. 11: "11." compensation of the costs of raising and training children who are not accepted due to lack of pre-school education places in state and municipal kindergartens and schools. c) the current t. 10 becomes t. 12. 2. In para. 7 the words....... the activities under para.................................................................................... 1, t. 5, 6 and 10s are replaced by the activities under para. 1, t. 5, 6 and 12. 3. In para. 8 after the words "The terms and the order of the....................................................................................................... 4. They're creating an al. 9 s 15: The State shall support the payment of fees due by the parents for the feeding activities of the children in compulsory pre-school education carried out by the state and municipal kindergartens and schools outside the state funded. The funds from the state budget to support the payment of fees due by the parents shall be made available under the budget of the relevant senior authorising officer with a budget. (10) The terms and conditions of full and/or partial support for the payment of fees due by the parents for the feeding activities of the children in compulsory pre-school education outside the country financed shall be determined by: 1. The regulations referred to in art. 9 of the Law on Local Taxes and Fees for Municipal kindergartens and Schools; 2. the acts referred to in art. OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 3, p. 2 for the state kindergartens and schools. (11) The senior authorising officer with a budget shall ensure full support for the payment of fees due by the parents for the feeding activities of the children in compulsory pre-school education, with no less than 50 percent of the funds under para. 9. (12) The State shall provide funds to parents of children from 3 years of age until they enter the I class to compensate for the costs directly related to their upbringing and training where: 1. the child is not accepted for the relevant school year due to the lack of vacancies for the full-time or half-day organisation of pre-school education in a state or municipal kindergarten or school for which he has applied and 2. is not proposed by the municipality of residence of the child any other equivalent place in municipal kindergarten or school. (13) The monthly amount of the funds under para. 12 for one child for each year shall be determined by order of the Minister of Education and Science, which shall be published on the website of the Ministry of Education and Science and shall not exceed the average monthly amount of the State budget for the maintenance of a child in pre-school education in municipal and state kindergartens and schools for the relevant calendar year. (14) The funds under para. 12 shall be paid to the parent in the amount of the actual costs incurred for the farming and training for each month, but not more than the amount under para. 13. The funds shall be paid until the child is admitted to a state or municipal kindergarten or school. (15) The terms and conditions for granting and paying the funds under para. 12 shall be determined by a decree of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u74	Thank you. Statements, coworkers? Here you are, Mrs. Slavova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u75	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! I am glad that between first and second reading our idea of compensation for the unacceptable children in kindergartens was accepted. We are also delighted that in the texts it was demonstrated again between first and second readings that you listened to the opposition and removed the social criterion for taking the fees for gardens for children in preschool education, which we make compulsory by this law. I hope that the same approach will continue when the Regulation on the conditions for granting these benefits is established. It is important to make it easier, not to make it difficult for parents, to open a wide fan of the costs that will be covered by parents, in order to disprove the rumors that the regulation will be in the interest of only certain private ones licensed by the Ministry of Education and Science, kindergartens. And in conclusion, I would like to say something that I have already had the opportunity to say outside this room, but where it belongs is precisely from this tribune: when the competition of ideas between government and opposition win the people, our mission is accomplished.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u76	Thank you, dear Mrs. Slavova. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Mr. Mehmet.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! There are a lot of proposals on this paragraph, which means it's working. Our proposal is very short, very clear and extremely accurate. We offer free kindergartens. This proposal has been made before in the State Budget Act because we believe that it is above all financial. But it's not just a financial problem. Adopting this proposal would be proof of a state policy, but we are talking here about a real state policy. Every time in a particular bill we see a state thought, this is also supported by the parliamentary group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. We are convinced that this proposal will sooner or later be accepted. At present, it has been rejected by the Commission. But there's a clever thought that if you really want an idea to be realized, you gave away the authorship. We're willing to give away authorship as well. [[Reply from MP Julian Angelov.]] If you want to replicate me, you have a chance after that. When we talk about state policy and declare education a priority, it means taking the necessary measures. Of course, it is also about financial measures, but it is high time that at the previous point in the Bill we talk that every fourth child in Bulgaria has a language other than the Bulgarian one, this means that we must take the necessary measures for integration. The best integration starts from early childhood. When we offer mandatory coverage for four-year-olds and offer different social measures, this allows us to blame each other for a discriminatory approach. We want equal treatment from the state. We want the same care for all children of Bulgaria. This proposal gives an ideal opportunity not to distribute children either ethnically or socially, but at the same time is a real and feasible state policy. For a long time now, at least within this term, when we are talking about priority education, we are giving for example the increase in teachers' salaries. That's not the whole education and that's not the whole problem. In this case, this proposal means giving support to parents also means that we should clear the reasons for not understanding children in kindergartens, because it is a real aid, it is a real state policy. There is not much joy in rejecting this proposal because it was proposed by the DPS. We want you to think at least a little bit, because whether this Parliament, whether in a month's time when we adopt the State Budget Act, whether next year, when it will be the forty-fiveth Parliament, this proposal will be back on the agenda. And since this idea is state-of-the-art, we hope that this problem will be resolved right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u78	Thank you, Mr. Mehmet. Are there any lines? Any other speeches? Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u79	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I just found out that the good ideas of the opposition were perceived by the government. And next thing you know, the DPS has state-of-the-art thinking. This is good news, gentlemen, even though they are on 9 September, which disproves in some way that this Parliament is exhausted. Why can't the DPS proposal be accepted? Because it is written a little hasty and concerns things that this law does not treat. Children's cribs are not subject to the School and Preschool Education Act. The thesis of compulsory and free education in pre-school age will not argue who first said it, who first defended it, what is important is that this majority implements it in practice. Yes, sooner or later this majority will put it into practice and we must not doubt that. What is the essence of this proposal? And I would like to say briefly here to be clear and underlined. Firstly, the state is committed to serious financial support for children in the compulsory stage of education in kindergartens. And often it's called education fees to be free. They're free. The Constitution and the Laws dictate that education at the mandatory stage is free of charge. What parents will pay at the mandatory stage are children's food costs. And for them, this proposal provides for significant assistance and support. We've been looking for different ways, different options, how the fairest way to achieve the distribution of state funds. And since kindergartens are a function in which state policy and municipal policy are combined, we have adopted this principle, which can now be criticised, but I think it is the most reasonable and the most appropriate at this time the state aid to kindergartens at the mandatory stage to go through the care of the municipality. It is important to stress the second essential in our proposal.. the support of the families whose children due to the deficit in the preschool education system cannot enter municipal or state kindergartens. I accept that there is political agreement about this, but the fact is that we also find the financial resources and commit that to be done with the budget for next year. From now on, whoever comes to power, whichever majority is configured, must build on these achievements that we are betting today as a legislative framework, and I hope that these proposals will be supported by all the political forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u80	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. - What's the line? I won't. You have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I will comment on our second proposal on this text, namely the payment of financial support or compensation for children who have not been accepted in kindergarten, and I would like to make a few points. I am pleased that, with my colleagues from the Commission, we have united around the text that we have tabled with our fellow Members from....................of course, realizing that we still have a lot of work to do from now on and I believe that we, as members of the Committee on Education and Science and People's Representatives, will not remain indifferent and indifferent. The proposed change is for all families whose children are not admitted to kindergarten or to whom the municipality has not offered the appropriate equivalent place, i.e. conditions such as opportunities for which the family has applied. I stress that we do not pay any fees here, this is financial support, support for children, and this is also not social assistance, we will not have an income criterion. This is support for ensuring equal opportunities for education for all children, which we have followed for many years since 2007, and which we have consistently carried out, of course, through the various legislative proposals in these years. Something else I would like to stress is a measure that does not compensate for the other policy of providing places in kindergartens. These are two independent policies and we continue to invest and believe that every child should have a place in kindergarten. Of course, we are doing very quickly in the big cities of the city with the consequences of the closure of kindergartens, which took place in the years back, but now is the time to take the other step, namely to adopt this compensation mechanism. One other thing I would like to stress is that this is not just a measure for large cities, it is also support for children who are in small settlements where we do not have kindergarten. You know, parents have found all sorts of opportunities most often where there are community centers, community centers organize activities for the youngest. What I said is that in itself this measure cannot exist without the other support mechanisms that we apply in the field of education and, in particular, in the area of pre-school education. What is next, since colleague Slavova said there are some concerns already among the parents? Indeed, from now on, we are going to develop together the Ministry of Education in three months to develop a regulation setting out the conditions and arrangements for the payment of this financial support by insisting that this should happen with the participation of social partners, representatives of municipalities, parents, experts, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. And since this is a proposal from MPs, we have proposed and I think we have united around this in the Commission, to host the first working meeting, so that we can clearly outline the direction of developing the regulation. Why is this mechanism necessary? It really should be working, it should not represent an administrative burden on parents and, accordingly, the authorities that will administer the entire process. On the contrary, he should assist parents and support parents, including financially, for the opportunities and decisions they have currently chosen because of lack of places in kindergartens. We have different practices that have adopted parents, we have children who are trained in groups or different activities in community centers, we have children who are in cooperatives, we have children who are in different other educational centers. These are all decisions that parents have found over the years, and we now want to support these financial decisions. Of course, we must emphasise that conditions in the country are different in the different regions and therefore we want this mechanism to be such that it really meets the need for support for the particular child. And here, Mr. Chairman, I would like to do an editing of al. I'll give it to you. Around this paragraph, after talks with Minister Valchev and the Commission, we united because we may not have been ready at the meeting. The meaning doesn't change, it's just about editing para. 13, which we suggest sounds like this: the monthly amount of the funds under para. 12 for a child may not exceed the average monthly amount of funds from the state budget for the maintenance of a child in pre-school education in municipal and state kindergartens and schools for the relevant calendar year, which is determined by order of the Minister of Education and Science. "The order is published on the website of the Ministry of Education and Science. The Commission colleagues have sent this text to their e-mails last night. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u82	- What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal of the MP Irena Anastasova and a group of MPs. They voted 121 MPs: 19 against 69, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. They voted 123 MPs: 26, against 66, abstention 31. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the editorial amendment to para. 13, proposed by Mrs. Damyanova. They voted 121 MPs: 119, against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 6, which shall become § 8, with the editorial amendment already voted on. Vote 119 MPs: 116, no objection, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u83	The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 7, which becomes § 9, and in it all the words "Personal Development Support Centre' are replaced by the "Personal Development Support Centre'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8, which shall become § 10. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9, which shall become § 11: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments and additions are made: 1. The creation of para. 1: (1) The main purpose of the boards is support, support and assistance for the development of kindergarten, school or support center for personal development. 2. So far, text becomes para. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u84	Are there any speeches? I shall put to the vote the following texts: the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 9 with the proposal for replacement in the text made by the Commission; the text of the importer for § 8, which shall become § 10; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 9, which shall become § 11. They voted 116 MPs: 116, no opposition and no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u85	According to § 10 there is a proposal of the MPs Milena Damyanova and Galya Zaharieva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10, which shall become § 12, as in art. 309b, para. 1 the word "Authorised' is replaced by "Authorised'. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 11, which becomes § 13, in which the words "Personal Development Support Centre' are replaced by "Personal Development Support Centre'.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u86	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u87	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues, dear Mr. Minister! One of the amendments to the Bill is the functioning of the Boards of kindergartens and schools whose main purpose should be the support, support, assistance and development of the relevant educational institution. I understand that the reasons of the importer for exercising control over the boards are aimed at preventing abuse. Here I would like to share that the Ministry of Culture finances and implements a methodical management of 23 schools of arts and culture. While I was a minister, I worked very well with these schools. My observation was that between the boards and the guides of these schools there were partner relationships that aimed at optimizing the management of the educational process. I very much hope that the proposed in the Law on School Education § 10, Art. 309b will not lead to us being accused of interfering with the autonomy of the school boards, which are independent legal entities and are not subordinate to the Ministry of Education and Science. The school boards are registered under the Law on Non-Profit Legal Entities and the control of them is also public. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u88	Thank you, dear Mr. Rashidov. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Mr. Panchev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, dear colleagues! For decades there have been school boards in Bulgaria. During the transition years, especially many of the boards were able to help guide schools in order to preserve the process, to keep schools functioning, to work, to carry out the task that schools and kindergartens have in front of our society for their education and education. The school boards, both in the past and now, as Mr Rashidov said, are registered in Bulgaria on the basis of the Law on Non-profit Legal Entities. The Law explicitly specifies the control and action organisation of the school boards, which annually make their financial statements audited by the relevant auditors, accountants, submit annually to the Registry Agency before the general meetings reports on the activities of the school boards, as well as the activities they carry out. The school boards include thousands of Bulgarian citizens, parents, public figures and political figures, people who care about Bulgarian education and Bulgarian children. For the first time, I do not know if this is the Minister's wish, or is a proposal of the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry has an idea to exercise control over legal entities registered under a law. Something that will involve the Minister as a controller, will impose the creation of a separate administrative unit in the Ministry, which will deal with the hundreds of school boards, which have proven in time the usefulness of their activities.....................the...of thousands of helpers, donors, people who want to help the schools guides. The creation of art. 309b, in my opinion, will be a coliseum in the existing Law and what is proposed in the amendment of this law that we are looking at today. I propose to you, honourable Members, art. 309b to be voted separately and I suggest that we do not support this article because the activities of the school boards are controlled annually by several authorities and the burden of the Ministry of Education and the Minister himself with this activity is unnecessary. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u90	Thank you, dear Mr. Panchev. Are there any lines? I can't see. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u91	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In relation to the speeches of the previous Ministry of Education will not create new administrative structures, we will not have a comprehensive total control of the school boards, but in the rare cases when we are referred to, we need control powers. I don't think effective control of the board is taking place right now. They are responsible in general, their management bodies only to the persons who have constituted them. These persons may be a limited number of natural persons and are not necessarily related to the school. Unfortunately, of those over two thousand boards that we have towards schools and over 1500 to kindergartens, we also have bad examples. I agree with both Mr. Vejdi Rashidov and Mr. Panchev that the boards carry out their basic functions in general to support schools, to make proposals, but we have cases, mainly because of material and financial interests, mainly because of the income from rents from agricultural lands, in which these funds do not take place in the budgets of the school and are otherwise spent. In this way, the will of the donor is replaced. Donors are usually our ancestors, compatriots who have made a donation in the form of agricultural lands and their will has been in this way to support the system of education, but unfortunately, there are also examples in which this does not happen. I will give you an example: the former mayor of the village, the former director and several other people unrelated to the school can make sure that the funds from agricultural land income do not go into the school's budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u92	Thank you, dear Minister. Any other speeches? Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u93	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! This text relates to an essential problem. It concerns that property, which was restituated in the last 30 years of Bulgarian schools, accumulated in the form of donations from our ancestors in the previous centuries. I remind you that 10 months ago, the National Assembly adopted a moratorium on the acquisition of school land by virtue of limitation precisely from the school boards. Then the opposition rightly pointed out that this is a palatial solution and lasting legislative changes are needed. It is today that we are discussing and I hope with agreement to adopt these legislative changes. They create sustainability in the order, use and acquisition of this inherited from the previous centuries, we can say material property for the system of Bulgarian education. This creates a lasting, sustainable, legislative regime because the land that was donated by our ancestors for the needs of education in a given village, in a given region, in a given city, to remain in the system of education and to create a significant, sustainable, public resource in support of Bulgarian education. The Minister mentioned that if you paid attention to over two thousand school boards that have reputable land estates of considerable size. These land and not only land properties, real estate, must be legally guaranteed as a source of funds in support of education, and I therefore appeal to you to vote for...........................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u94	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u95	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Mihov, I can agree, in principle, with the things you point out here, that the school boards should work so that the property and property they have to serve solely for the benefit of education, for the benefit of the adolescents for their upbringing. But the text of the new article. 309b empowers regional inspectors to call them to interfere in the work of the school boards, they control one legal person who is registered under another law. You can't put a government structure in the middle of a board like that. There are many other ways, and the minister gave one example and they are certainly very much in the country. However, when, for example, the justice system, this system, which watches for legality, performs its functions, does not need the structures of our Educational Ministry to entrust something to control, which has been created in the years as a public form of education even during our Renaissance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u96	Thank you. Another line? I can't see. Mr. Mihov, the dodger.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u97	I do not agree with this approach because these school boards had nothing to do with those who existed until the end of World War II. Secondly, you yourself said that they were registered under another law. They are in virtually no way legally related to the school to which they are created. This is the legal framework that provides for supervision of these non-governmental organisations whether they fulfil their rights. That's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u98	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. Statements? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. As Mr. Panchev suggested, we vote separately. First, the text of the importer for § 10, which becomes § 12, with the proposal for replacement in the text made by the Commission. They voted 106 MPs: 95, against 2, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 13, with the proposal to replace the text made by the Commission. Vote 108 MPs: 103, against 3, abstention 2. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u99	According to § 12 there is a proposal received by the MP Irena Anastasova and a group of MPs. The following amendments shall be made in § 12: In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 after the words. A point shall be placed on the list and text shall be deleted by the end of the sentence. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12, which shall become § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... Paragraph 1 of the Additional Provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. A new t. is created. 10: ..10. "Exert support for distance personal development in an electronic environment" is the implementation of one of the activities of personal development support through the use of information and communication technologies, as the pedagogical specialist and children or students are not physically located in the same place. 2. Previously on "T." 10 becomes t. 11. 3. Previously on "T." 11 is going to be a t. 12 and in the second sentence, the second sentence is finally added to the list. in synchronised distance learning in an electronic environment. 4. Previously on "T." 12, 13, 14 and 15 are respectively. 13, 14, 15 and 16. 5. A new t. is created. 17: Seventeen. "Training from a distance in an electronic environment' is a training carried out using the means of information and communication technologies, as the trainer and trainee are not physically located in the same place. 6. Previously on "T." 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25 and 26 are now respectively. 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27 and 28. 7. New t. is being created. 29 and 30: It's 29. synctronical training from a distance in an electronic environment is a distance learning in an electronic environment where the trainer and trainee interact in real time, simultaneously, presently, through visual contact via an electronic platform. 30. Synchronising support for personal development from a distance in an electronic environment is providing support for personal development from a distance in an electronic environment where the pedagogical specialist and children or students interact in real time simultaneously, presently, through visual contact via an electronic platform. 8. Previously on "T." 27, 28, 29, 30 and 31, respectively. 31, 32, 33, 34 and 35.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u100	Thank you. Statements, coworkers? Mrs. Anastasova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u101	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! It's a short speech. Just to tell you the reasons by which I made this proposal, namely: in § 12 the proposal to be after the word. A point shall be placed at 12s and the text shall be deleted by the end of the sentence. Why? The current text of t. 11 reads as follows: A qualification credit is a measure of the time in which the pedagogical specialist has been trained to improve his qualification in programs of the organizations under art. 222, para. 1. These are all training organizations. One credit shall be awarded for 16 academic hours, of which no less than eight academic hours shall be present. Now, after this text is added: "In addition to synchronized training in an electronic environment at a distance. " What do I mean when I disagree, saying that I disagree with this supplement, which is actually change? We now know how many of the trainings are conducted. I have raised many questions related to trainings and qualifications in the system of education, and to blitzcontrol, and questions to the minister. I don't think the situation is getting any better there. I think with this text we make it even easier to issue certificates per kilogram. What quality of qualification of teachers will we talk about?! We here do not say that this is only happening in an emergency situation, we practically legitimize this way of conducting any qualification courses. Whoever of you hasn't been in the education system must be the only one who doesn't know what we've seen. My request is that you think before you vote, because ultimately everything we do in the education system should aim to improve the quality of education. And an element of this raising the quality of education is improving the qualification of teachers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Anastasova. Are there lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal of the MP Irena Anastasova and a group of MPs. They voted 108 MPs: 20, against 61, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 12, which shall become § 14. Vote 109 MPs: 92, against 3, abstention 14. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u103	"Transitional and final provisions." Proposal of the National Representative Irena Anastasova and a group of MPs: The sub-division of the "Transitional and Final Provisions" by § 13 and 14 is dismissed. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u104	Thank you. Statements? I don't see any speeches. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Irena Anastasova and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. They voted 106 MPs: 16 against 76 abstentions 14. The offer is not accepted. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the division. They voted 104 MPs: 94, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u105	Proposal of the National Representative Milena Damyanova and the National Representative Galya Zaharieva: The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In the course of the academic year 2020/021, the training under art. 115a, para. 4 and 5 may be carried out regardless of whether an emergency epidemic situation has been declared. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13, which shall become §16. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become §17, and the words Proposal of the MP Milena Damyanova, MP Milen Mihov and group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish § 18: .............................................................................. The Council of Ministers shall adopt the regulation referred to in Article 1. 283, para. 15 within three months of the promulgation of this law. The Commission proposes to establish § 19: "Seriously, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry,
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-09.u106	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I put the following texts to the vote: the Commission's proposal to create a new § 15 with a text on the Commission Report; the text of the importer for § 13, which becomes § 16; the importer's text for § 14, which becomes § 17 with the proposal to replace the text made by the Commission; the Commission's proposal to create a new § 18 with a text on the Commission Report and the Commission's proposal to create a new § 19 with a text on the Commission Report. Vote 108 MPs: 96, none, abstention 12. All proposals are accepted. Now, one proposal from me on item two, which we voted on: PROJECTS OF A CHANGE DECISION IN PARLIAMENT COMMITMENTS AND DELEGATIONS. I suggest that we vote on another Decision Project. I will present it to you: Project! DECISION on changes to the composition of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 3 and Art. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He released Georgi Evdokiev Markov as a member of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. 2. He elected Kalin Lubenov Velov as a member of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. Vote 96 MPs: 90, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. The next meeting of the National Assembly is tomorrow, 10 September 2020, Thursday at 9.00 on the adopted programme. [[PHONE RINGING]]
