ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Today we have one point in the program and it is: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO VOICE THE NEIGHBOURHOOD OF THE MINISTERAL COUNCIL OF BULGARIA WITH THE MINISTER-FRIENDED BORISOV BREAKS IN THE COORDINATION PROCEEDINGS. Kornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 17 July 2020. The vote on the Draft Decision shall be no earlier than 24 hours from the conclusion of the deliberations pursuant to art. In the case of the aid, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Procedure Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of ministers, fellow Members! I am doing a procedure for direct broadcast on BNT Channel 1 and the Bulgarian National Radio of today's debates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Please vote on the procedure so done. Vote 192 MPs: 190 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Mr. Svilensky, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Ministers! In today's important day for Bulgaria, I'd say when I'm... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u5	Please, colleagues, for silence!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u6	By the reaction we understood the importance of this day and this debate, but in the Chamber today there is no Mr. Borisov Prime Minister suppose the main culprit and the main reason for this meeting today...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u7	What's your procedure, Mr. Svilensky?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u8	...respectful Members of Parliament, Madam President, are missing all three designated for removal, ministers who have not yet been removed. My procedure, Madam President, is to wait if we have to, five minutes, ten minutes, but these people will come to the Chamber. Our questions are to them. There is no way that the people who represent the problems and the subject of the vote today are not in the Chamber, and here you have arranged ministers who will probably only watch and listen. Mr. Borisov owes answers to the National Assembly, to the Bulgarian citizens...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u9	I understand your procedure, Mr. Svilensky. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u10	...and the young people who walk the streets of Bulgaria for 10 days.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u11	Thank you. Mr. Borisov is at the European Council in Brussels. So he can't be here. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] There are plenty of ministers here. The coworkers will be invited to come. There are some who are on leave. [[National Representative Georgi Svilenski, away from the microphones, wants the floor.]] I don't give you my word, Mr. Svilensky! [[(People's representative Georgi Svilenski, away from the microphones:]] There's no vote! I explained. Please take your seats! [[(People's representative Georgi Svilenski, away from the microphones:]] In the manner of conduct, come on in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u12	In the manner of conduct, Madam President, as you have answered me that some of the ministers are on leave. I ask you to suspend their leave or order them immediately! We'll let them all out of here in just a few hours, including the Prime Minister. They'll go on permanent leave.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u13	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u14	Let them come here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u15	Mr. Svilensky, I understand what you're saying. Thank you. When the Prime Minister arrives, when he lands, I'll invite him to come. There's no way I can get it from Brussels. Important negotiations are under way in Brussels. [[National Representative Georgi Svilenski continues to speak away from the microphones.]] Mr. Svilensky, please, please, please! Let's be tolerant, let's be polite. Colleagues, message: In relation to a motion to vote on mistrust of the Council of Ministers on the grounds of art. 89, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 109 of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly 77 MPs from the Parliamentary Group of the BSP for Bulgaria are proposing that the National Assembly vote mistrust of the Council of Ministers with Prime Minister Boyko Borisov because of the failure in the anti-corruption policy. The proposal, together with a motivated draft decision on no-confidence voting of the Council of Ministers, was submitted on 15 July 2020, Wednesday, at 13.40 pm, with No 054-02-37, on 15 July 2020. On the same day the materials were distributed one copy of the parliamentary groups and sent to the MPs in electronic form. I will introduce you to the time available to the parliamentary groups: the parliamentary group of GERB with 30 minutes; the parliamentary group of GERB with 30 minutes; the BSP for Bulgaria........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I give the floor to the importers to present the reasons and the draft decision on the no-confidence vote within 10 minutes. Mrs. Ninova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u16	Dear Bulgarians, today we are thousands in the streets and squares of Bulgaria with a request for justice, rule of law and rule of law. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u17	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u18	The invading of heavily armed representatives of the authorities of the presidential institution took place. This was a violation of the rule of law and the Constitution, but the reasons for the people's anger are much deeper and they are rooted in intolerance to the corrupt governance of the government of Boyko Borisov and his single, oligarchic-mafia model of power. Three years ago, in 2017, we from BSP to Bulgaria submitted the first vote of mistrust. It was about corruption. Here's what we wrote in the reasons at the time: A Eurobarometer survey for 2017 shows that 83% of Bulgarians believe that corruption is a widespread problem in the country. The growing of power and corruption is the main problem of our society. " - Then the leaders rejected the vote of mistrust with the following argument: Corruption has no! There's a feeling about her, but it's not true. What changed in those three years? Corruption scandals have increased. They covered new and new spheres of public life and became increasingly drastic. And you, the government, have more and more demonstrated a smug sense of impunity. The huge corruption scandals in three years we've counted are over 25. During a month, or almost every month, the state was shaking from one such coumgate, sudzhukgate, fencegate, apartment gate, passport gate, CEZ-gate, NDK-gate, garbage gate, Barcelona-gate, druggate, Alepu-gate, NAP-gate, drawergate, customs gate and more, and more. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] But these are the consequences, the visible results of the long hand of the mafia in the management of Borisov. We cannot satisfy ourselves with statistics on the crimes of this government. We want to remove the reasons to build the model, the net, tangled by the parallel state and suffocated the real one. She's standing on six legs, and they're: First, corruption is laid down in the laws deliberately. Lobby laws are introduced and private interests are protected. The Law on concessions; the Law on Water; the Law on Energy; the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control and many others. The government of Borisov completely changed the legislative order and the basis of our statehood......................................................................................... Instead of laws adopted after public discussion and impact assessment and tabled by the Council of Ministers, semi-legal amendments between first and second readings at the last moment, submitted by individual majority MPs, performers of someone's will. Did you, the honourable governors and MPs, for four years the Council of Ministers has submitted 217 bills, and you, the MPs of GERB and "United Patriarchs", between first and second reading or in Transitional and Final Provisions? 277? [[GERB lines.]] This is a completely vicious practice that changes the essence of the legislative process. It is a practice that allows lobbying interests to enter through the back door of parliamentaryism. The legislation is chaotic and serves only for display, for allegedly measures taken to combat corruption. Since 2017, the government has tabled 12 anti-corruption laws. 12 for three years, each of them contradicts the other, starting with the Penal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure and ending with the Law on Truffles, which also has anti-corruption texts. In order to demonstrate display and blindfold people, to show that they are struggling with corruption, which they are betting themselves on in the laws, the government is very diligent about: National Strategy for Prevention and Counteraction of Corruption; Integrated Strategy for Prevention of Corruption; Updated Strategy for Continuing Judicial Reform; Strategic Guidelines for Prevention and Counteraction of Corruption; National Plan for Countering Corruption and as many documents as you want. Bureaucracy instead of actions and results. The second leg of this model is that besides legislative corruption is legalized institutional. Intentionally and purposefully, the institutions have been turned into a corruption tool for customs, which allowed Bulgaria to store tons of illegal trash; regional environmental inspections that allowed these junk to become illegal dumps; the DNCK, which allowed Alepu's hotel; the Gambling Commission, which is commanded with SMS by the Minister of Finance. Dear Bulgarians, you hardly know that Borisov's government has built, created 47 control bodies for corruption - 47 committees, inspectors, coordination councils. The result of this in six years, the last six years, three convictions and seven acquittals, according to the Annual Monitoring Report of the Anti-Corruption Fund. The third pillar, on which the oligarchic-mafia model steps, is the system of performers, the people, the fuses. Intentionally appointed not professionals, but obedient performers of private interests. They listen and sign [[GERB's line]] And when it gets hot, they burn like fuses to save the entire Mafia-Oligarchic system. Do you know how many ministers and deputy ministers are released because of corruption scandals in this term? [[Reply from the National Representative Manoil Manev.]] 12 ministers from 19 and 7 deputy ministers! There's hardly any unauthorized ministry! The mafia tentacles have surrounded almost all the structures of the state! Released for Corruption scandals, Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, Ministry of Environment and Water, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, Ministry of Energy, Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Youth and Sports, Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Justice! This is the mafia tentacles in all structures! The fourth element of this model is impunity! Out of all these out-of-the-boxes, there's no convicts. There are noisy and display actions of the prosecutor's office that do not end with convictions! The fifth foot of the model he stepped on is propaganda. Over the years, dozens of paid analysts, political analysts, sociologists have inspired from the screens and pages of obedient media the greatness of the dictator, the senselessness of opposition and the lack of alternative! And sixth, dear Bulgarians, the mafia feeds off fear and protects itself with a bat! The model Borisov punished everyone with lies and compromises to delegitimate him morally, with dismissals, with pressure, with racketeering, with fear for work, business and children! And in the last days, when the young ones were free from that fear and went out into the streets, they turned the bat. They beat a young man in handcuffs! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] And after the physical violence yesterday, the Prime Minister used and splintered, blaming the boy's grandfather. [[a line from the National Representative Manoil Manev]] That he couldn't go to The Hague. That's the bottom, Prime Minister. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u19	Get it over with, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u20	I've been going on since group time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u21	From the time of the group transfer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u22	Now this is the slender, jealously guarded mafia-olligarchic model whose collection image is a drawer full of euro banknotes and guarded by a gun to the head. The consequences of this model are the greatest poverty in Europe, the biggest inequalities in Europe, the worst education, the most inaccessible healthcare and there is no way to climb up until the government of Borisov governs us! Listen to how the most authentic European and world editions have reacted these days: the political crisis in Bulgaria has put the rope of Prime Minister Borisov and the Finance Times in Bulgaria will not suppress the protests; the anger for the failure of the prime minister in the control of corruption in Bulgaria, the scandal of the Mafia, with accusations of corruption and demand of the prime ministers in Bulgaria, will not suppress the protests. They reacted to Austrian, Russian media, the New York Times, Spiegel and so on. And these days European leaders tied European money to the rule of law at a time when in Bulgaria the streets overflow with protests for lack of such sovereignty! Bulgaria pays its contributions to the European budget and the COVID-19 Recovery Fund, but European money will not reach the Bulgarian economy and Bulgarian citizens while ruling the government of Borisov! [[Arrival in GERB.]] It takes away our European perspective and the opportunity for a European standard of living! The sense of impropriety and injustice brought thousands of people into the streets! Dear Bulgarians who are there on the streets and squares of Bulgaria, we congratulate you on your courage! [[GERB's line.]] You're right and you're not paid! You are true left, right, non-party, Bulgarians of all ages, gender and occupation! We want to win the state from the mob, but not to sit in your chairs and continue to reproduce this model and feed on it, but to build it! To regain statehood, rule of law, equality before him, to have normal conditions for economics, decent work, fair income, pure nature, perspective for young people who want to live here, opportunity for the development of the middle generation and calm old age for adults! The first condition for all of this to happen is that the government of Boyko Borisov fall! The second condition is that we all take the initiative to build the 10-year management model and build Bulgaria again by capable, smart and honest people! Resignation, judgment and justice! [[Reply by National Representative Valentin Kasabov.]] Building the pure and holy Republic! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u23	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. Since the motives have gone into speech, are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Iankov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u24	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers and Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! When me and my colleagues we worked with, we wrote down the motives, the extrapolation of which Cornelia Ninova made. [[GRUNTING AND LAUGHING FROM GERB]] If you had any arguments, people wouldn't be on the street right now. Corruption would not have caused No. 1 to collapse trust in your government. Therefore, our motives are the finding of a death or epicrisis of the disease, which leads to the end of your reign. After you, it remains to destroy the virus that has penetrated the tissues of the state. From the drawers of the nightstand we saw that you maintain availability and readiness for rapid evacuation. Perhaps it was someone who contributed to the contents of this drawer that filmed the photos because your racketeering and power spread over everything to suffocating proportions. Those over whom umbrellas have been spread so far are victims of your increased appetites! The vote of mistrust of GERB's cabinet may not be sufficiently secure with the required number of MPs to accept the fight against corruption for their cause or debt to society, but the resonance of this vote vibrates throughout the society with the deafening resignation of Boyko Borisov. Your corruption has long-lasting consequences for Bulgaria! The iconic for your management of highway construction has also introduced an innovative corruption mechanism with circumvention of public procurement and control over the absorption of public resources through direct award and distribution of subcontractors to more than 1 billion. 300 million. lv.! That's one side of the coin. On the other side is the scandalous neglect of all the remaining road infrastructure. The endless supposed repairs, the rotting boards, holes in the asphalt along the highways, at which the permissible speed is impossible, and instead of getting ready, you limit it to 90 km! [[Reply from the MP Hristo Gazhev.]] These paths of yours are killing!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u25	Who's building this precinct?!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u26	This is your responsibility! You've been in charge for 10 years now, and whatever happened before that, you've been given a long enough mandate to change it! However, you have created the perfect mechanisms for draining public resources! People described your scams as a repair of the repair. [[Reply by MP Vejdi Rashidov.]] The list of examples is endless. I will not ask Boyko Borisov: who and why is the budget guilty of being minus 700 million?! He himself realized that the amount of the amount required a fuse at the highest level! There's still the fuse, even though it burned out, to help light up a 67 million. We will also find out whether the removal from the government will go with an indulgence in front of the prosecution or if it is a signal that the person is outside the umbrella. Each government at the beginning of the mandate plans what will remain after it, fulfilling its programme. You staked construction on highways and left corruption! It led Bulgaria to a road without a way out! The rescue route is your complete removal from power to remove the barriers to democracy, to replace Boyko Borisov's sole power with the normal functioning of the institutions! I call on all my colleagues to vote by conscience, not by party order! Fighting corruption is our common responsibility! The sovereign expects this from us! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Nenkov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen of ministers! I didn't write a speech because I'm convinced of the motives I'm going to make about whether or not I'm going to support the vote of mistrust. Yeah, we're in a difficult situation, there's a lot of emotions, there's a lot of adrenaline, but in the end, when people sent us here, with their vote, we have to be responsible for protecting the interests of the people, as we swore in the Constitution when we entered this room. I would like to start from there, and my fellow Members will definitely not support the vote of mistrust tabled by fellow Members on the left for two reasons. The first is not because someone will probably think that we have our places here for a few more months, but because people have voted our trust because we are taught to be responsible. Responsibility requires that sometimes a person make more difficult decisions, although at first reading they are more positive, but in the name of the state we have to make much more responsible decisions. The first reason why we will not support the vote of no confidence is the fact that there are elections in just a few months. I deeply respect the right of all people to decide who is in charge, who is in power, and precisely for this reason, given the upcoming situation in front of the country, because, outside of all emotions, we need to give a clear account of what lies ahead of the state. You can see that even in Europe, in three days, European leaders can hardly reach any mutual solution and compromise on how to restore the economy after the pandemic we fell into, which we are still in. That is precisely why, because we have a responsibility, I believe that leaving Parliament alone sometime the resignation, colleagues... Exactly GERB cannot be accused of not seeking an answer to the question whether or not people support the management of GERB. We've resigned twice and, frankly, sometimes even that's the easier option. In fact, it might be better for GERB if we go to elections as quickly as possible. Yes, it is, but in the end, we are responsible to all the citizens who sent us. This is the first reason, and the second reason is that I strongly oppose the entire power to be given to a complex person - President Radev, [[Applause from GERB]] and I call him president only from upbringing, and out of respect for the institution, but the President's personality proved that in four years he managed to achieve the unthinkable.. to destroy every bridge between the institutions, between the political leaders and this man cannot and should not be empowered with so much power, a man who was ready and filled with hatred, a man who had one word written in his eyes and she was a rematch, because someone had violated his comfort, a man who in four years called with what the National Assembly had not, put ultimatums in his eyes, called mouths. There is no institution that he has in any way not belittled, and this man wants all the power. I'm not inclined to give it to him. Moreover, this same bad Borisov, about whom he spoke for four years, not once, although his profession is quite masculine and requires quite the courage of the President, not once did he have this courage and courage to say the positives of the cabinet, and they were not very few. Because this same bad Borisov and his colleagues, and we included, we did so that, yes, maybe now it doesn't sound like it, maybe it won't like it, but Bulgaria was really in its best financial and economic condition for the last 30 years. Bulgaria has been raised to another level among the other European countries. This is not only the successful Presidency of Bulgaria during the European Council, this is what the closing of all Schengen criteria is talking about, that Bulgaria achieved unthinkable success a few years ago to enter the waiting room of the Eurozone, in the club of the richest countries, that the same bad Borisov, thanks to his personal qualities and his diplomatic skills, Bulgaria has so far been protected and protected successfully from the immigrant crisis, where many other countries have failed just because of the good relations we have with Turkey and with the personal qualities and personal relations with Erdogan. The same bad Borisov, who, when he went to the Council in Brussels, all the leaders are his friends and that means that trust in the state is very high. So I don't think that... And one more very important thing. Yes, when there are elections, the same bad Borisov, naturally, is most kind to the party, but when the elections pass and many of you, colleagues on the left, you know very well, because indirectly or directly you know him and you have had a clash with him, you know that he does not share in any way either the ruling or opposition colleagues, nor the mayors of one or another political party. And I think that's right. And a man like President Radev, who in four years failed to find a positive word, let us not forget, naturally, and that a few months ago he was talking about two types of viruses, about questioning the measures of the government, for not saying what he was proposing, but only criticizing, that when the prime minister and the entire government, although he dropped confidence in the cabinet a few months ago, although it was absolutely unconstitutional.. However, the prime minister went to him with the whole team of ministers, just to give his hand at a difficult time when the institutions and political leaders should not like each other, but to talk to each other, he rejected this hand. And I do not believe that at this very moment for the state one such person, without a drop of courage within himself, can rule the state during the difficult months ahead for the state.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u29	Is that on the vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u30	And finally... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u31	Colleagues, let's listen to each other.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u32	...and finally, I will address the people who are outside and protest, because I know many people from these protesters my friends, acquaintances, people who have their political views. I deeply respect their vision. I don't even think I should and should change their political vision. The only thing I call to them is my call to them, however, to put some sense into them. Emotions and adrenaline are sometimes not a good advisor. There are elections in six months and a possible resignation from parliament and the government will lead to us being left without a working parliament. And if most demands are political now, then in a few months they can become economic and social. We have health issues to answer. And because of this, the only thing that I call the people outside, the young and active people, not to those who are provocators and failed politicians who are trying to ride a protest, I want to reassure you that they and you do not like you. [[turns left.]] Don't think people like you out there. [[Applause from GERB.]] The only thing I want from them is to really show a little more sense and look for options, to have bridges between us, not cliffs. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u33	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. The way you're leading it? Here you are, Mr. Popov, in the manner of conduct, and then I wait for lines to Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u34	Mrs. Chairman! First, remind the speakers what today's topic is a vote of no confidence of the government. There is no talk here and it is not about the President of the Republic of Bulgaria. Let them be on the subject. Secondly, note to your speakers that they have just suspended the Constitution because a government office is provided for in the Constitution, regardless of who is President of the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u35	There's a sentence like that.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u36	This is a basic principle of constitutional Bulgaria, of the rule of law Bulgaria, of what people want outside and for which they protest the law, the rule of law. You just suspended the Constitution. Pay them the slightest attention as President of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u37	Thank you, Mr. Popov. I would like to point out that when I am in this Chamber and I am President, there are no Members of Parliament or of yours, everyone has the right to speak, and I am first among equals, so please, colleagues, without such remarks. Here's a line for you. I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? Here you go, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u38	Madam President, honourable Members! Since the beginning of this term, we have argued that this government is corrupt. We quoted data from the NGO sector, but you ignored us. Thus, three years later, we came to the following conclusion, made by Transparency International, I quote: There is no real movement in the fight against corruption. Change in trends is not reported. From zero to 100 Bulgaria has an index of 44, each index below 50 means a systemic problem with corruption. We remain very below the average for Europe and we occupy the prestigious, in quotes, the 74th place between Suriname and Jamaica. According to world standards, corruption is not a simple factual composition, it is a sum of different factors. First of all, in economic terms, Bulgarian employers, in the face of the Chamber of Commerce, say that 88.5% of public procurement in Bulgaria is rigged. What future awaits young people of Bulgaria in such a competitive environment, colleagues? The relationship between politics and corruption goes through the political model. Do you remember your attitude to the financing of political parties, your attempt to take away the electoral rights of Bulgarian citizens in the middle of the night and to destroy the preferential vote? Next, the involvement of civil society in the government of the state is important for the fight against corruption. Your government will remain in history intolerant to the non-governmental sector. A number of laws have introduced unified regimes and have limited NGOs from participating in your public life, and the non-governmental sector is key to developing civil society. What is the attitude of your coalition partner from the United Patriarchs who are constantly being persecuted by sorosoids and various groups of dissatisfied citizens and non-governmental organizations that are constantly gromming? A key factor in your failure today is the functioning of the justice system. And here you may object that it is an independent power. But how independent should it be, colleagues, when we all remember Boyko Borisov's invasion of the Supreme Judicial Council and how magistrates got on their feet, the reports with SMS, until we get to the famous: You chose it. The circle that raised him, and the prosecution, which selectively hits the head like a bat the dissatisfied and dissatisfied with the power, the prosecution, which remained, is not available for this round that raised the Attorney General. What is common between the Prosecutor General Geshev, you and Boyko Borisov is your common understanding of the division of authorities. Next is the conflict of interest. In this regard, you created an anti-corruption body, corrected the law a dozen times, and logically you came to a corruption scandal in your own anti-corruption body, and its chairman was sent on vacation as an ambassador. So much for that. Finally, freedom of speech is the last barricade in the fight against corruption. And here your management sent Bulgaria to the bottom of the charts. Let me give you an emblematic example of a bond between large capital, politics and media. Here in the Chamber you tried to simplify 50 million. lv. of a big businessman. Then he bought a media group and, by chance, this media group is very well located with you. Now do you explain why this media is being driven away by the protests? Do you see a link between large capital, media and power? What division of authorities are we talking about here, fellow Members? All of this gave birth to the protest and its motto: Therefore, when Peter Hristov was openly killed in the center of Sofia, you were silent. Just a few months ago, your leaders took pictures with him and cut strips of yet another open site, but when they killed him in Sofia, you said: "Some donor there." And I'm going on about the goons. One force group seized the functions of the state. In 2014, the French ambassador strongly condemned the attempt to take over a business bandit. Six years later, this same force group was at the heart of the withdrawal of another business. And when a Bulgarian lawyer calls the police, he does not know whether he is seeking protection from law enforcement or from a force group because two hours later he receives threats to his life. Here I draw the following conclusion: Boyko Borisov carried his past from the force groups to the government of the state and turned Bulgaria's institutions into force groups. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] A number of protests broke out in the mandate of your government, and Borisov put them down where with money, where with fear and violence, and you believed each other. We can mention public procurement, quality of performance, which gave birth to pictures like from a David Lynch movie. We can talk about guest houses, homeless millionaires, Girardelli and Ginka Varbakova. There's a lot more we can say, but the conclusion is one, coworkers, it's stolen, it's stealable. And since I can't say it better, I'll quote Abraham Lincoln: "You can lie to the whole people for a while, you can lie to a part of the people all the time, but you can't lie to the whole people all the time." [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u39	Thank you, dear Mr. Bojankov. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches, colleagues? Mr. Gechev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u40	Good afternoon, colleagues! Madam President, honourable Members! The facts. First, the Bank for Development, the State Bank, with 99.9 state ownership, granted 75 million. lv. of the company "St. George Group" a batting company, so called collector's company, which collects bad loans. It is amazing how the management of the Bulgarian Development Bank explains this amazing measure: 75 million instead of going to small and medium-sized enterprises in the conditions of even a deepening crisis, go into the pockets of a private company?! And what does the Bank's management explain? That this is a measure against the pandemic. Note, I quote: The financing will allow two of the commercial banks on the market to split with part of their troubled portfolio and to direct resources for new loans to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. Very interesting! The two banks split up. What a pain. They, the two banks, have stretched black flags and 40 days are grieving that they have separated from their bad loans! And at the State Development Bank there are fanfare, champagne pours out, as they finally got 70 million. lv. Bad loans from the private sector. And instead of saying that they're getting rid of 70 million, the management of the Development Bank writes: "They're splitting up! Secondly, the resource was directed.. what insolence.. to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. And how do you direct the resource? The State Development Bank instead of going directly to small and medium-sized companies, they go to the bats. From the bats go to two banks, one of which is a foreign bank, I will not tell you which side it is from, but all night they have broken dishes in a tavern, in a nearby country of Bulgaria because they were awarded 70 million. lv. at the expense of Bulgarian taxpayers. Second case. The Bulgarian Development Bank gives, pours 140 million. lv. State money at First Investment Bank. To what end? To assist the Bank. Why would he help the Bank? Because the Bank has made two unsuccessful attempts at normal market shares to sell shares. No one buys shares.. neither domestic investors nor outside investors. The market decides that the price of one share is two levs and 60s, but this is not how the Bulgarian Development Bank decided under government dictation, as the government is the principal of the Bank. What does the Bank decide? The bank decided to give these funds to First Investment Bank by buying the share at a double price of five levs per share, which would say two things. First, a gift to a private bank automatically of 70 million. lv. And, secondly, under the accounting laws, dear colleagues, automatically in the balance sheet of the State Development Bank is recording what a seventy million loss the government is doing with this act! You think there's a reverse buy-in clause in time? There is no such clause, which means that the loss for the Bank for Development, respectively the profit of the private bank is forever forever! In addition, there is no absolute private redemption clause, there is no hope that the State will recover the money or participate in the management of the Bank. Because note that the controlling stock package remains in the hands of the two main shareholders, that is: what gift?! You keep your controlling stock and the naive taxpayers give you 140 million. lv. to manage them, as there is a representative of the State, with 18%, it cannot influence the decisions of the private bank, it cannot even resist the increase in capital in the future of the private bank so that the share of the State remains insignificant. Third case. A complete scandal with the State Gambling Commission, from which this government informed us that the losses were 700 million. BGN, and they are much more, because from the answers of the Minister of Finance, the oral and written, the stunt that we prepared him from questions, he signed and stamped under scandalous information. Because it turns out that only the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer paid a higher fee, not only the four or five companies of some fugitive, but a number of private companies in the whole sector did not pay the fees due. And according to the government, no one is guilty: but she, the five-member Gambling Commission, is an unwitting distraction, blinking with both eyes in five years, an unfortunate accident, and there are no 700 million. lv. The State Gambling Commission is appointed personally with the signature of the Minister of Finance five people: Chairman and four members. Who are they? They are: a representative of the Ministry of Finance, two, the National Revenue Agency, the Third, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Justice at the level of deputy ministers or heads of departments of the relevant institutions, such as the National Revenue Agency. The Minister of Finance is also Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the National Revenue Agency. This one, first. In the Gambling Commission is the entire government at the highest level. They don't see anything for five years, there's no 700 million! Second place. Paragraph 16 of the Law adopted by your majority on 5 December 2014. In § 16 it states that until 28 February 2015 the Commission adopted a decision to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Treaty'). The Council of Ministers is obliged to present a new draft law and a new Strategy for Gambling. The government does not present such a law, they continue to steal for five years. In conclusion, in five years, no inspection has been carried out by the Agency for State and Financial Inspection. Not a single inspection according to the Court of Auditors by the National Revenue Agency. A complete combination, a hugging between the oligarchy and the management, a true example of a mutriization of the Bulgarian economy. In conclusion to what our President Mrs. Nino said, quoting Western editions, he wrote yesterday: "The young people have the power to reverse the wave. "No wave, honourable colleagues, tsunami has gone against the mutrated management of the Republic of Bulgaria. Resign! [[Applause and applause from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u41	Thank you, dear Mr. Gechev. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Mr. Mareshki, come in. [[Noise and lines.]] Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u42	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Gechev, you've told us a lot about where and how the 140 million went, but somehow you've been very quiet about which western bank the 75 million went to. Therefore, if you do not enlighten us on this subject with specific names, we will consider you another person who is telling lies or babbling by the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u43	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. Second line? I can't see. Mr. Gechev, for the back? You won't use it. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, any other speeches? Mr. Ivanov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u44	I request an extension of time, Madam President, to all parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u45	Extend group time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u46	Dear Members of Parliament, honourable Deputy Prime Ministers, members of the Council of Ministers, honourable Bulgarian citizens! Dear fellow importers, I have thoroughly familiarized myself with your motives for the motion of mistrust tabled, and I can say that I am not surprised either by the content or its volume in nine pages. As if the content overlaps with those of the previous vote of 2018 on the same topic. The reasons are listed, on the one hand, colleagues, known news, already revealed investigations and actions in the fight against corruption by the Ministry of Interior, by the DANS, by the Prosecutor's Office, by the Bulgarian Court of Justice, by the Anti-Corruption Commission. The other side, colleagues, of your motives are the sociological studies about the feeling of Bulgarian citizens about corruption. Nothing new! And in your previous no-confidence vote, colleagues, there were these publicly available data from the study, but as kindly for your thesis in the study was saved for the feeling of Bulgarian citizens about corruption during your governance. And notice, colleagues, governments, in which there is also a fired Deputy Minister of Economy then, who today is the main importer of the vote of mistrust. Fired according to media publications since then, colleagues, that perhaps the name has been involved in corruption scandals is Mrs. Cornelia Ninova. [[Heckling]] Then according to the study, colleagues, in your management the sense of society corruption was much higher, but this should not delight us or you. The only new one, colleagues, to your motives is the scent of the heavy Dubai perfume they've been sprayed with. It seems that the short term within which you are instructed to submit this vote of mistrust has reached only for this. After commenting on the content of these nine pages of your work, I would like to draw a parallel with the work and results achieved by GERB and the government with the United patriots in the fight against corruption. First of all, colleagues, the good work of the revenue agencies and the improvement of the legislation in the field is seen in the growth of the income in the treasury with unconstitutional tax burdens for Bulgarian citizens and businesses. Of course, the fact is also the jump of the minimum wage double, the increase of the minimum pension double, the increase of the average wage of 500 BGN. in 2009 to 1350 BGN, colleagues, in 2020. The increase in gross domestic product, colleagues, is from about 70 billion to 120 billion in the previous year. Budget revenues, fellow Members, are jumping from 22 billion to almost 45 billion over a ten-year period. The simple arithmetic here shows that the growth of the tax receipts, the proceeds from excise duties and customs duties precedes the increase in the productivity of the Bulgarian economy when the tax burden is not changed. And that only means one thing: that in these years the Bulgarian business is brightening up. And here, colleagues, many exhale your motives in the tabled vote of mistrust. The grey economy, colleagues, if you do not know, is a derivative of high levels of corruption. The economy of Bulgaria, thanks to the work of the institutions and the adopted laws, brightens up. Smuggling has melted from 36 to 3% without an analogue across Europe, colleagues. And apparently this irritates many characters from the transition, many oligarchs who have become interesting to the prosecution and investigative bodies in recent years. And another counterpoint of your fellow Members: since 1 July the Single Electronic Portal for Public Procurement has been introduced and this, colleagues, is a very important anti-corruption measure. Secondly, if my arguments and indicators are not sufficient for you, I will also list the following. During the weekend Mr. Mark Rutte, Prime Minister of the Netherlands, in the debate on the Multiannual Financial Framework, praised Bulgaria for being one of the three most stable financially and disciplined countries in Europe. The trust of Europe and the European institutions is not lost for Bulgaria, as it was during the previous management of BSP and DPS when the EU funds of the country were stopped. Isn't that right, guys? Do we remember that period? [[Heckling]] I guess you don't remember him helpfully. I remind you that the Prime Minister is absent today because of the negotiations in Brussels on the recovery funds for billions of euros in grants for Bulgaria in the coming years. At such a difficult time, we need unity and support for Bulgaria, not disunity, as you and the presidential institution often call for. International rating agencies, colleagues, Standard &amp; Poor's and Fitch use words such as positive and stable when determining the economy, finance and environment for investments in Bulgaria. This is reported by investors and since the beginning of the crisis in Bulgaria more than 20 certificates have been issued to foreign investors class A. I think this is quite indicative of the trust in the Bulgarian state and in the Bulgarian institutions. The World Bank has opened a Service Center in Bulgaria - another fact, colleagues. Soon, the second largest bank of "Apple" from Germany will open an office for service in Bulgaria, I believe. In September last year, an initial mission of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development was prepared and carried out and Bulgaria's economic review for our accession to the OECD was launched in Sofia. Colleagues, ten days ago Bulgaria was accepted into the Banking Union. This is an assessment and trust in Bulgaria, Bulgarian institutions and difficult to return to power, banks in Bulgaria will fail again. And while colleagues, on one side of the Council of Ministers, came the historical news that we were accepted in the waiting room of the Eurozone, and this will work for the benefit of all Bulgarians for decades to come. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u47	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Guys, are there any other speeches? Mr. Vesselinoff, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u48	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the Council of Ministers, honourable Members! Today we are discussing another vote of distrust to the government on the topic of Corruption. What do we read in the motives of the vote? This is the right and obligation of the importers that this is not a response to a specific damage or action of a person or institution, but because of corruption scale and because the scale is something of the first character, it remains unclear: if the importers take their management with the DPS in the Triple Coalition or the Oresharski cabinet, the relationship to today's reality is reduced or increased? Then there is reasoning about the relationship between the sole power or corruption that is false and a long review of events not only from this mandate, which do not contain any real evidence on the thesis. We have a large block of motives that repeat the allegations of fugitives from justice.. I do not know why BSP has become their firm, we have an accusation that the prosecution is dependent on the executive authority, repeating all current scandals, often running away from the facts about them because it is more convenient for any guilt to fall on the management. In general, the vote is a statement that hangs unproven, and for the finale follows the unique recognition that it is motivated by anxiety and need for immediate response. It is clear to everyone that this anxiety that motivated importers is caused not only by the internal race in BSP, for which each camp accumulates points, but also by the protest that importers obviously want to use for their own political purposes. And since I do not wish to interfere in the internal affairs of the BSP, the only real motive I have to comment on today is the desire to ride the protest, with its help to bring down the government and importers to power. Today on the streets of Sofia we see protests for democracy and against oligarchy. Many of the citizens of the square are educated Bulgarians of active age, peaceful protesters and believers in the cause of democracy, personal and national dignity. However, the results clearly show that during the past thirty years of democratic development, despite several waves of protests, democracy was weakening and oligarchy strengthened. With all my unconditional respect for the civil right to protest, we are obliged to tell the truth, namely the oligarchy today seeks to take advantage of the outrage of the citizens, as every time she has done, changing some political persons with others, but carefully defending the rules that allow her to reproduce herself, just as in the near winter of 2013, when we from IMRO were in the streets and squares, and also colleagues from NFSB, we contributed to the overthrow of the cabinet Borisov 1. Instead of a new Constitution and rules, we have received management of BSP and DPS, bankruptcy of banks and total disgust of the people of power, which has expressed itself in much more violent and mass protests than today. It is these two parties supporting the vote that hope for a new return to government. Perhaps they will attract as their junior partner the liberals from "Yes, Bulgaria" who are former partners around Maya Manolova or someone else, I do not know, but they are the only ones who will benefit from the political crisis and early elections, which is very worrying for us, especially with regard to the participation of the DPS in power. From 2014 onwards, the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. As well as the Patriotic Front, we are a guarantee that it is not in power. We are aware of the many flirts of GERB with them, for counter-services that were being done, for related personnel that were recognized, often our policy proposals were blaming, so as not to irritate the DPS. However, we did not allow their direct involvement in government, we did not allow them to control departments and ministries, and we think that this was a powerful anti-corruption measure, colleagues. We will not allow it to continue, despite their flirtation with another liberal formation, because we see liberalism, which so successfully uses today's protests, produces only the decomposition of statehood, the erosion of national memory, the introduction of a sense of shame from Bulgarianism, the taking over of state institutions from within by enlarging them with sorosoid NGOs. I hear they're nice to some of the BSP, too. Speaking of protests and their conclusions, we state that we are clearly distinguishing the oligarchy and sorosoid assets' agents against fair resentment due to problems accumulated decades. We believe that a change is necessary not only of individuals, as has happened several times during the transition, but a change of rules, because when the system remains the same, elections lead to equally depraved results. Each messiah finds himself sooner or later surrounded by doubts about corruption and flirting with oligarchy. Therefore, we accept as our mission the launch of a debate on this fundamental question for the nation: how to stop the chain of reproduction power.Money, understand oligarchy, power at the prime of money; recalling MPs and other electoral bodies; relations between authorities and the full separation of politics from business; dealing with the vote bought by introducing an educational vote. These are some of the essential issues that we need to resolve in order to change Bulgaria. We are also ready to initiate a referendum on this subject, if the people say, we are ready to convene a Grand National Assembly that does not frighten us, so the protesters will receive a change rather than a replacement once again. In conclusion, in today's times of global turbulence and a sharp collapse of the economy, IMRO representatives in the executive and legislative authorities hear the voice of the nation, we accept to work on the challenges it raises, and we choose the path of responsibility, creativity and dialogue, we seek national unity, not disunity. Therefore, all members of the group of the United Patriarchs are going to vote against this vote. Bulgaria above all! [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u49	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Colleagues, we're moving on. For a line, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u50	Dear Mr. Veselinov, I see you've read the motives of the vote, but you haven't noticed them. And whatever arguments you put forward, and colleagues from GERB, this is political demagogy. The result of this vote will be consumed by those who are on the street. They clearly want your resignation and expect it as a result of this no-confidence vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u51	Thank you. Another line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u52	Mr. Iankov, you're not a spokesperson, I suppose, of the people who are out there, I don't know if you've been authorized to be one. I know, however, in the demagogy of this art at all is extremely popular in your party, and in fact the motives of this vote are evidence of this, we have a continual repetition of a thesis without any proof, repeating an accusation without ever wanting to enter the depth of the problem. And that, if it isn't a ridiculous propaganda that only aims at disuniting society and exposing forces that would benefit only from the lack of stable and legislative and executive power, I don't know what it is.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u53	Thank you. Mr. Zarkov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u54	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It's extremely embarrassing. [[In the hall is heard the anthem of the Republic of Bulgaria, released by the protesters before the National Assembly. People's representative Veselin Mareshki and several other MPs from the Volya parliamentary group stand right. Replies from the MP Veselin Mareshki.]] Outside, the anthem plays for people who have lost any hope but to drive you out of here to take back their country. The majority of citizens, opposition parties, international observers, European Commission, NGO sector, civil society, foreign media all say to you: "Bulgaria is corrupt! Only you do not see that you have turned our country into a kingdom of injustice with a flag of a 500-euro bill and a crest on which is a wise ladybug! Only you do not see that you are talking about the Eurozone in a country where a bargaining chip has become a country where local self-governance has been entrusted to the Dream Teams! Only you do not see that in the country of corruption the market is omnipotent in education and healthcare, but it is powerless in terms of the prices of the property of the power, it does not matter in leva or euro you pay rent if you do not pay rent because you are a minister! Only you do not see that a lot is stolen here and this was said by state institutions in this room, but it is stolen very well if you allow me to paraphrase a Bulgarian doctor! Only you do not see that it is stolen from everyone and from everywhere from medicines, from customs, from roads, from security fences, from the repair of the National Palace of Culture, from the European funds.... by the Largo under the window of the Council of Ministers, is stolen! You're the only one who didn't realize that a company created yesterday without capital can't buy CEZ! Only you didn't realize that no-good Greek sold our biggest resort to Mark Girardelli, and only Mark Girardelli didn't realize that he could buy another name because he sold passports and certificates and diplomas and driver's licenses! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Only guest houses are not stolen! Guest houses are being absorbed. And there everyone will burn to burn a critic of the Prime Minister and we heard that in a recording, yes. Because in the country of corruption is bugged everyone, including the Prime Minister, and photographed him even when he sleeps, photographed him. But even when he sleeps, our Prime Minister is armed! No, I'm not talking about the gun in the drawer. In such a corrupt country, he has more powerful weapons in the normal countries called them institutions or regulators, in our country we label them with abbreviations. When they can't, we have the omnipotent Attorney General's Office... the real heavy artillery, recently in the direct sense of the word. And under the leadership of Ivan Geshev she is ready on any recording to respond with a record, to each photo with a chat, and if this cannot, with a show action with an arrest, by invading. That's why he tied his destiny to this government, and that's why he has to leave with him! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Why, why do these things as a rule not lead to judgmental sentences? I do not know that?! In a corrupt country, this question is about pub talk, and the pub says: "Eight Dwarves." In the country of corruption, it is rarely discussed in parliament. More important things are being done here - laws are being forged or at least Transitional and Final Provisions, gambling is regulated, concessions, skyscrapers in Lozenets, debts are being forgiven, such as those 60 million of the businessman, who provides full support on behalf of the State Gambling Commission. Are you going to tell us that we were paid by Bozhkov? [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] President Radev then saw the outrage, maybe he dropped a drone over parliament, saw it and stopped it with his veto, as he did many times. He was bitten by a flea named Domuschiev for 60 million! He on a napkin with Bozhkov signs for 200 to finance what a media!? But even so funded media can't make Alephu's construction look like a support wall. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, no part of our people wants and cannot continue to be lied to no more, no Bulgarian deserves it! No one should ever put up with him again! Retire immediately! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u55	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches, fellow Members? Mrs. Alexandrova, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u56	Dear President of the National Assembly, honourable Members of the Council of Ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I want to believe that today in plenary, the expert opinion and the reasoned reasoning will take precedence over political speech. Many questions echoed in society, and we as MPs owe the answers to the people. In order to be constructive, I will set several concrete examples by which the ruling majority in this Parliament and the government have improved legislation so as to help fight corruption even more effectively. First of all, I will draw attention to the amendments to the Constitution in 2015, which regulate the division of the two Colleges of the Supreme Judicial Council to decide independently the issues of personnel development and disciplinary responsibility of magistrates. New powers were provided for by the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council to carry out checks of integrity and conflict of interests of magistrates, their property declarations, and to establish actions that undermine the prestige of the judiciary and the independence of magistrates. Regarding the allegations that the prosecution is being used for political pressure, I would like to remind all colleagues of art. 117, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, which says that the judiciary is independent and that in carrying out its functions judges, judges, prosecutors and investigators are subject only to the Law. The prosecution has an equivalent constitutional status as part of the judiciary. In the context of constitutional democracy, its aim is to ensure the rule of law, and its activities must be compatible with the public interest and established fundamental legal principles, which requires a precise balance between the independence of the prosecution and democratic monitoring mechanisms on it. In this regard, the provision of art. 126, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria serves as a guarantee for the exact and uniform application of the laws and for the protection of the legitimate rights and interests of citizens, legal persons and the state. Next, the 7-year term of the Prosecutor General compared to the four-year term of the National Assembly and the government that it does not issue means that these mandates pass through time and represent an additional guarantee of the independence of the Prosecutor General. Here I would also like to focus on what BSP colleagues are constantly saying that we are working campaignly to respond after reports or other documents, evaluations and so on. In this regard, the Ministry of Justice is working on a number of strategic documents, such as the updated Strategy for continuing the reform of the judiciary, which has a 7-year horizon of implementation. In order to ensure modern penal policy, effective counter-crime and humanization of the criminal justice system, the Ministry has developed a Strategy for the Development of the Penitentiary System in the Republic of Bulgaria for the period until 2025, Implementation Plan and Financial Plan. In implementation of Measure 13 of the Action Plan for 2017, in order to implement the recommendations of the independent analysis of the structural and functional model of the prosecution and analysis of its independence, the Ministry of Justice and the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria jointly prepared a roadmap with specific measures and deadlines for their implementation. In the light of the foregoing, it is clear that the activities of the Ministry of Justice are developing planically in the implementation of strategic documents with clearly defined objectives and temporal perspectives. It is unfounded to argue that the Ministry's activities are carried out in order to respond to specific events and produce documents to prove an active reaction. And now I will draw your attention to the Anti-Corruption Act and to the withdrawal of the illegally acquired property, which we, colleagues, have adopted in this National Assembly, in defence of a rule of law without corruption practices. Regarding the claim of mechanical unification of various structures within the Commission for countering corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, the focus of the new law is the reform of an institutional framework in the area of prevention and countering corruption aimed at greater efficiency and better coordination between existing bodies and public administration units. The new committee entered the existing bodies until the adoption of the new law. In total, for the 11-year period from 2005 until the end of 2016, the value of the confiscated property according to the Court's judgments in force 222, court decisions for the State's assets acquired from illegal activities amounted to 81 million. $435,000. £680. For 2019, the Commission submitted 157 requests to secure a future claim for the revocation of illegally acquired property worth 781 million. 623 thousand. BGN 495. In this way, it aims to create the necessary link between the functions of prevention of corruption, verification of property declarations, the establishment of conflict of interest and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, and the anti-corruption activities are strengthened by collecting, analysing and checking information on and on the occasion of corruption of persons holding senior public positions. This unification of a function is important because conflict of interest and corruption are often at the heart of unexplained wealth of relevant individuals. The report of the Commission to the European Parliament and the Council on Bulgaria's progress under the Cooperation and Verification Mechanism for 2017 shows that the overall institutional structure for the fight against corruption in Bulgaria continues to be fragmented and is therefore largely not effective. As a recommendation, the adoption of a new regulation to create an effective body for combating corruption is at stake. On 13 November 2018, the Commission published its Annual Report on Bulgaria's progress in implementing the indicators of the Cooperation and Assessment Mechanism. The most significant achievement was the development and adoption of the overall legal framework for countering corruption at the high levels of power. The high degree of continuity in both the legislative framework and the smooth merger of individual structures in the new committee has been explicitly highlighted. A transparent procedure for selecting the new authority's management was also mentioned. Regarding the claim that the Cooperation and Verification Mechanism of Bulgaria remains, in the letter to the European Commission, after the discussion of the Report in December 2019, in the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, the President of the European Parliament, David Sasoli, stated support to the Parliament for the termination of the Cooperation and Verification Mechanism for Bulgaria. To conclude, I believe that no political party has the right to summarize and speak on behalf of the entire people. Each of us is here to work on a particular problem. The constructive opposition would be the one that offers good solutions, it is active, it imports bills that will improve the lives of the people in Bulgaria. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. A line, Mr. Genov? No. First Mr. Jankov, then Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u58	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers! Dear Mrs. Alexandrova, you have also read the motives, but you have not understood them. The institutions that are subject to the executive power and which must fight corruption are not working! Even the Prime Minister abdicates precisely with the structuring of the KKKONPI. Its responsibility for the activities of the DANS, the Anti-Corruption Unit, of BORKOR. The result of BORKOR's analysis of legislation, the 82 Corruption Laws examined, where is it? In the trash can! The more than 80 000 public procurements and recommendations to the Council of Ministers, what happened? Nothing! Finally, the mechanical merger of units for which Boyko Borisov was responsible in the KKCONIPI? You expect it to work? There won't be any! Because you have gathered analytical activity with repressive actions in terms of combating corruption and talking about prevention, about crossing?! There isn't one! Do you know why? Because you and your government are stimulating such corruption and in our motives we have explained to you that through the appointment of incompetent, party, in the administration through dual legislation, which the clerk will interpret and through chaos in the institutions that must fight corruption, this is your responsibility! But you have an interest, you are involved in this corruption, comprehensive at all levels of arrogant, ruthless, developed to scale that are unbearable to Bulgarian citizens and they are out because you expect through corruption to be replicated support for your governance again. That's never gonna happen again! Your governance will never be allowed, since on such a scale you have come to develop innovations in corruption! [[(Comments from GERB:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u59	Time. Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Mr. Genov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u60	In the manner of conduct, Madam President. I'm addressing you...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u61	You can't. No, let's finish the procedure. Not with such parliamentary moves. Let us complete the procedure and then I will give you the floor to do the procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u62	We'll finish the procedure, I'll be very brief...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u63	Let's finish with the dot, let's finish with the dot, Mr. Genov, and I'll give you the way of keeping. Please, let's follow the procedure. Are there any other lines? I won't. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u64	Dear Mr. Iankov, I will be very brief in my jacket, saying that a large part in the proof of exactly what the European Commission recognises for the transparent election for President is that a large part of your parliamentary group supported the President for the election of the new Anti-Corruption Commission. That's enough proof, I think.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. In the manner of conduct, Mr. Genov, please come in as promised.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u66	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! Madam President, at the beginning of the meeting, we addressed you with a simple request to Mr. Borisov to attend this debate. [[Noise and lines from GERB: "Eee! "]] As I can see, you didn't inform us what was going on, did the plane hover in the air and wait for the debate to end so it could land?! I saw that Mr. Donchev left just now, probably went to meet him? Let us know, however, will we respect the Constitution when there is a vote of confidence will the Prime Minister be present in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u67	Thank you, Mr. Genov. I'll give you an answer. Under art. 89 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 109 and 111 of the Staff Regulations shall not require the presence of the Prime Minister. But Prime Minister Boyko Borisov is in Brussels, he hasn't landed yet. Mr. Donchev is in the group's room, so he didn't leave either, Mr. Donchev. Everyone's here, but they're relaxing a little bit. Colleagues, we're continuing the debate. Mr. Tzipov, come in... I'm sorry, Mr. Yachev was before you. I'm distracted by Mr. Genov's procedures. [[Noise and lines.]] It is your right, Mr. Genov, please, of course, always the opposition has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u68	Madam President, honourable Members! Perhaps we all wanted to hear expert opinions today in the reasons for a vote of mistrust against the government of GERB and the United Patriarchs. Unfortunately, we have received extremely chaotic and endlessly manipulative examples of corrupt practices, referred to as examples of corruption practices, from various aspects of the country's social political life, from major investment projects, operational programmes, investigation of authorities against various levels of executive power, to problems of the legislative framework. By the way, I will just point out that an exotic but very revealing emphasis in these motives is also the open sympathy and protection that the BSP importers demonstrate towards the fugitive in Dubai gambling boss Vassil Bozhkov, quoting from the reasons that: the Member of State has taken repression in order to claim his already successful business. Aside from the fact of the ridiculous comparison of 18 charges raised, much of them for serious criminal crimes compared to repression, even more perplexing is the claim that the introduction of a state monopoly in gambling is comparable to the seizure of a successful business! A seizure in favor of who? In this case, in favor of the state, the people. Here I also wanted to quote the examples of a long-standing umbrella from the reasons for the fact that over specific businessmen should not stop only to the face of Vasil Bozhkov, but to describe in detail some other cases in recent months for patronizing the business of two brothers from the inner circle of President Radev. Here, however, the leaders of the vote shyly kept quiet. The suggestion that the spending of funds under the Sanitation Program has implemented large corruption practices is extremely significant. It is known that the procedures were conducted there by the local authorities of municipalities and town halls, with not a small part of them being municipalities with mayors of BSP, and to claim that it was widely stolen in the implementation of this programme, is a rewriting of suspicion of crime and of not a few of the red mayors. I don't know who from BSP is the author of this particular political harakiri, but I think the red mayors should track him down and thank him personally. The attempt to align the fight against corruption in the various levels of power, especially in the local authorities, has modestly stopped only on the case of Ivancheva. They are shyly neglected to mention a number of other cases of accusations brought by representatives of the local authorities from various political decorations. And I'm going to remind them very briefly here. On the territory of the municipality of Cherven Bryag, Pleven District is investigating data on corruption activities of the mayor of the municipality. independent; on the territory of the municipality of Chuprene, Vidin District....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... BGN, Mayor, former of GERB; in the territory of Zlatitsa Municipality an indictment for the embezzlement of 1 million. BGN, Mayor of BSP. The political palette is extremely colorful and to talk only about the case Ivancheva here is simply a manifestation of exceptional manipulation. As the latest statements cited mainly data from the Commission Report on Countering Corruption for 2019, and as if in these nearly six months "from the end of 2019 to the middle of 2020, this committee has slept and nothing has worked, I will give very brief data on the activities of KPONPI in the last six months. Since the beginning of 2020, in the Directorate for Anti-Corruption at the KKCONPI, these have been received by the authorities of the Prosecutor's Office for six months. The total number of prosecutions within the meaning of the Law on the Judiciary, under which they are carried out and currently carrying out operational search activities, including giving explanations to persons and requiring documents. Of 234 files, the work has been completed and the results have been reported to the authorities of the Prosecutor's Office. A total of 96 motivated claims for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property for the benefit of the State for the value of 734 million have been lodged in respect of filed and motivated claims and entered into force judgments again for the period from the beginning of January to 17 July 2020. 374 thousand. 262 BGN, of which 12 judicial decisions have entered into force, with which a withdrawal has been granted to the State for assets acquired from criminal and illegal activities worth 3 million. 166,000. £86. I will conclude with this brief reference to the activities of KKCONPI and with the closing words that what we have as a motion for a vote of no confidence is chaotic, manipulative, does not correspond to the expert nature of the otherwise serious topic of anti-corruption and the vote is entirely committed to political ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u69	Thank you, dear Mr. Yachev. [[Applause from OP.]] - What's the line? I can't see. We continue with the speeches. Mr. Tzipov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u70	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers and Ministers, Members of the National Assembly! Let's get back to the substance of the debate on the no-confidence vote. Although there is no clear emphasis in the motives of the importers on what has been done by this government under the Ministry of Interior, I believe that it should be stated in a clear and unambiguous way by this parliamentary tribune that the issue of countering corruption is an important priority in the Government's Management Programme and in particular the Ministry of Interior. After a number of legislative changes have been undertaken both at the end of the last term and at the beginning of this mandate relating to the capacity of the Ministry of Interior to counter crime, I think we should list a few important things that have happened in the Ministry of Interior's system. Let us note that, first of all, among the legislative changes undertaken under the Ministry of Interior Act, which have enabled structures such as the Directorate-General for National Police and the Directorate-General for Organized Crime to work on the fight against crime, which is related to the conduct of corruption by single perpetrators, and on the basis of organised crime, the results have not been late. Let us note that in 2018 alone, more than 1670 pre-trial criminal proceedings have been initiated in the structures of the Ministry of Interior. If we have to make a comparison with what was the number of these pre-trial criminal proceedings during the Triple Coalition or during the Oresharski government, we will find that the difference is in times: 2013 - 2014 these pre-trial criminal proceedings were just over 500. The most numerous are the pre-trial proceedings for crimes against the tax, financial and insurance system for officials' embezzlements, document crimes. In 2019, the number of such proceedings formed is absolutely identical. However, many other organisational measures have also been taken in addition to the formation of pre-trial criminal proceedings following data on crimes committed. For monitoring and statistics, a Single Catalogue on Corruption Crimes was adopted, permanent teams were formed to work together with both the prosecution and the Commission to counter corruption and the seizure of illegally acquired property. It is also important to note the role that specialized teams have played in countering crimes against the financial interests of the European Union. We've heard accusations that nothing has been done. In fact, these particular teams work effectively, collect, analyze operational information, press charges. There are also already sentencing sentences for corruption within the state administration. In the structures of the Ministry of Interior and the Directorate-General for Organized Crime, which is called to counter corruption committed by organized criminal groups. For only the first six months of 2020, 15 such pre-trial proceedings have been initiated, of which 10 criminal groups are organised that commit either financial or tax crimes or abuse of EU funds. The targeted actions to strengthen the capacity of the criminal economic police continue and the results are not late. For the first six months of this year, the registered crimes that have been investigated are 33% more than in the 2013-2014 period. More than 70% of them have already been indicted and accused persons, so let's talk about the reasons that no one works in the country for investigating corruption crimes is absolutely incorrect. To conclude, I would like to draw attention to Mr. Radev's comments, which called a few months ago for more light in the work of the bodies that should investigate corruption on the high levels of power. Let us give two emblematic examples which were a fact during the caretaker government in 2017. One example is related to a procedure for delivery of 290 high-pass vehicles for the needs of border guards. What happened? The procedure ends in less than 50 days from the beginning of March to 20 April. Notice, more than 25 days after the elections produced, in which the people voted their trust in this government. What happened during this procedure? For the President of the Evaluation Commission, honourable Members of the National Assembly, a person from the political cabinet of the then Minister of the Interior was appointed. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] In this procedure, the specifications have been changed, just to set the order to be won by a particular candidate. [[Reply from "BSP" for Bulgaria ":" On the topic! "]] So let's make it clear to everyone who calls and says that in his day, if he manages, he will not be stolen, he owes answers to how, how transparently, the performers are defined in such significant procedures of huge values. [[Applause from GERB.]] I call on the MPs to vote against this veto and to ask voters to talk about how to move our country forward. [[Applause from GERB. Loud noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u71	Thank you, Mr. Tzipov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches, colleagues? [[(Replication from the BSP for Bulgaria "Bikov" is fine.]] If he wants Mr. Bikov, he'll ask for the floor. [[Applause, loud noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mr. Bikov, the opposition is waiting for you. You must be their favorite. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u72	Mrs. Chairman! [[(Noise and lines in BSP for Bulgaria.) Revival in BSP for Bulgaria.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u73	Quiet, please! Colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u74	Dear colleagues! I will announce good news to my colleagues from BSP: this vote will be rejected. This is good news for you, above all, because in this Parliament you are at least ready for elections at the moment. [[(Noise and lines in BSP for Bulgaria.]] You have, first, to do your internal party work, to find out who you are, where you are and where you will go, and then to tell the Bulgarian citizens where they should go. Because if they come after you, they'll probably go in at least five directions, and that's not good for anyone. What will happen if today we accept your proposal that the government resign? We are going to an office without parliament, without a clear programme by the president, who has for two and a half years now had a Strategic Council, but they have not written a single page about what they intend to do if they happen to come to power. Secondly, the President is already a party to this. This is not an institution that can be a mediator for solving a possible political crisis, the President and you want to provoke a political crisis without knowing how you will solve it afterwards. There are no guarantees that dialogue can be achieved, as the President said yesterday: "No dialogue with them! " - What about after the elections? Is there gonna be no dialogue? And how he's going to form a government that will rule the country at a very difficult time when we've broken all ties to dialogue. In terms of corruption. I'm very surprised why you don't go to the protesters, see how they'll welcome you? [[Reply from "BSP" for Bulgaria "We were"]] Where are you? Get out! They're right outside. Go there, to them, wave the red flag, see what happens. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Let's destroy the model. I will give you news 30 years later: the model is of representative democracy. In representative democracy you go to elections, there people say who wants to run them. Last year we went twice to elections in European and local. One hundred and forty municipalities we won, you won far less. I don't know how you want to rule without a majority. You did it once, and I don't think you've had any success as a second political force. The Patriotic Front is a relatively successful formula if behind you are the bayonets of an army, but in democratic conditions the Patriotic Front will not be successful and I am sure that the people who do not wish you to lead them in different directions will speak their mind at the regular parliamentary elections in April. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u75	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? [[Noise, lines, cheering.]] Here you are, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u76	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen ministers, MPs! I expected messages of legitimacy, legality and responsibilities to be heard in today's debate. I believe that it is an extremely bad manifestation of political attitude, bad political taste legitimizing and institutionalising addresses expressed emotionally by inexperienced politicians right here, from this tribune. It discredits all of us. For the fifth time, the BSP tabled a vote of mistrust and used this legitimate parliamentary instrument with the ambition to trigger a political crisis and early elections. You have not shown much imagination and your own handwriting in the selection of the topic "Corruption" for the second time in this term. Your hope is to find extraparliamentary and presidential support, but, alas, you are deluded. Trapped in leadership battles, colleagues on the left rely on everything that the goat-stripe brings, to speculation with dirt and photos. And in the threatening fist of the president, you saw a sign and hope that your time had come. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You have officially distanced yourself from the Dubai scenario, but otherwise your motives for the vote are without arguments, simples, and the pronounced loud Corruption Program is in the style of the party these 30 years ago, containing only promises and slogans. And in Vision for Bulgaria you have not recorded anything yet about the fight against corruption. It cannot be accepted as legitimate the claim of someone, he and the President, for the entire power, because the Constitution says that no part of the people of the political party or other organization, state institution or individual can claim the realization of the people's sovereignty. Colleagues on the left, do you really believe that with a possible caretaker government, the president will comply with you? If memory serves, you had a very serious claim to the composition of the previous one. In addition, it will be difficult to combine your interests with those of the protesters, the Poison Trio, the Poison Trio, the Yes, Bulgaria and Maya, Slavi and other political actors. I have always claimed that exercising power is primarily about bearing responsibility. As the largest parliamentary group, we have a responsibility to our over a million voters. We bear this responsibility together with our coalition partners from the United patriots and we implement it in our Management Program, and this is especially valid in the face of a raging health crisis and a emerging economic and social crisis. I sincerely believed that the pandemic would teach us solidarity and empathy, it would help us realize that putting aside the close party interests brings more dividends than opposition. You don't think that without a working parliament, legitimate measures can be implemented to address all challenges?! Who's gonna profit from this? Perhaps some extraparliamentary parties, which were positioned effectively by beaching and drinking coffee, will probably also benefit from delaying the legitimate choice of the President of BSP. Due to the epidemiological situation, the President may have long exercised himself with all the authority in the country, and he has already shown that he has no relation to the requirement of the Constitution to be the embodiment of the unity of the nation. Is this good for Bulgaria? In the presence of a legitimately elected parliament, it is our common responsibility to complete the mandate, to support legislatively all government actions to address the crisis and to ensure legal conduct of legitimate elections. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u77	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Vigenin, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u78	Thank you, Madam President. Dear citizens of Bulgaria! Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of ministers! In today's debate, I wondered what it would be like if Bulgaria had a prime minister with impeccable biography, no roots in the force groups, no bundles and bars in the drawers and a gun to the head? What would it be like if Bulgaria had a prime minister for whom leading international media did not write about how corrupt it is and how bad Bulgaria is with regard to the results of the fight against corruption? I also wondered what it would be like to have a prime minister who speaks foreign languages and communicates with his colleagues in Europe not with patting on the back and with salutes?! I also feel some regret for the ministers who are here today, a little sad because they may be aware that they are accomplices of some involuntarily, others with enthusiasm, in a policy of robbery. What would it be like if the ministers received respect from a clean, honest prime minister rather than instructions on which public procurement to place and who to win it? What if the Prime Minister respected parliament and the MPs were free and had their own will to work for the good of the people and not through the legislation to serve oligarchy? The Mafia, and you understand it well, has become involved in the economy, has control over the institutions, controls the media, but can't control people's souls. People woke up. GERB's time is up! GERB is already in the past. You just have to figure it out. And no reports today or reports on the second fifth can bring you back to the present, let alone provide you with a future. The question today, and the vote in a day or two, is on which side do you stand, whether on the side of decent people or on the side of the mafia? With its vote, this Parliament will show which country chooses at this key moment for the country's future. This Parliament is exhausted. Resign! New elections and a new page for Bulgaria! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u79	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. [[The National Representative Veselin Mareshki wants the floor.]] Mr. Mareshki, I've closed the debate. Mr. Donchev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u80	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Maybe I can knock on the bank too, I think I can even break it, but that usually reveals some verbal failure. I'm gonna talk a little bit, because long talk is in danger of losing words, and we shouldn't let that happen. I'm going to run away from the traditional political angle of conversation. Now you probably all expect me to do a critical analysis of the data in Eurobarometer and prove to you that the numbers are not what you say they are. It's no use. It's no use! You probably expect me to compare and do a historical analysis of corruption risk, scandals, crimes over the years. And judging in whose favor this analysis is, and that's not what I'm going to do. Perhaps you expect me to remind you of how decisive we were in the separation, amputation not with every corrupt person, not with everyone who made a mistake, but with everyone with regard to whom there are suspicions, and I will not do that. You probably expect me to remind you of all the efforts in the years to change legislation, to create new institutions to fight corruption, and I will not do that. Is there corruption in Bulgaria? [[Replication by BSP for Bulgaria "Imam": "Imam. "]] There is! How long has there been corruption? Out of ten, out of twenty, out of thirty, out of forty, out of fifty years? Out of sixty, out of a hundred?! Corruption is a chronic disease of Bulgarian society and state. She's a chronic illness! And the big problem we have is that we've learned to live with it. We learned to be alive and have her, which is a problem. Bulgarian society, the Bulgarian state must gather the strength to end this chronic disease, whatever it takes. But corruption doesn't fight words, it doesn't fight posse, it doesn't fight posse! It fights institutions and laws. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! What are we short of, provided that both the institutions and the laws are taken from the practice of the most developed countries? Some of the texts are literally copied? What's not good enough for us? We're not going into collective psychotherapy, so let's be honest about what's not good enough for us? Where is this majority here that will have the will and the power to use the institutions and laws in the best way? Is there such a majority?! Is there?! I'm not talking about left, right, liberal, conservative. Is there such a majority of people with such a biography, with such a stock of messages in phones, with such wallets and homes that have the power and will to use institutions and laws in the best way? Is there such a majority?! What would change a new parliament where ten or twenty percent of you would be different? The big theme, the big question is, is there such a majority here?! Yes or no?! I'm not gonna make you raise your hands. Restarting democracy means going through the ochlocracy. Restart of the state means temporary heart failure of the Bulgarian society. Should the Bulgarian government resign or not? How long will it stay? As long as it makes sense. As long as it benefits. As long as he can do something useful until the relationship with the citizens is broken. Believe me, if this relationship is broken, you don't have to yell at me, "Resign!" Or, as the great Aristotle said, not Goethe, as the great Aristotle said: it is not important to win the war. The most important thing is to organize peace. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u81	Thank you, dear Mr. Donchev. Mr. Mareshki, affidavit? [[Reply by MP Veselin Mareshki.]] What procedure? [[(Reply from the National Representative Veselin Mareshki: I do not have the right to a declaration?]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u82	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen of ministers... [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u83	No, a statement cannot make Mr. Mareshki a statement, not on today's topic, however, the statement should be on another topic.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u84	Of course not on today's subject. Will there be any more procedures for anyone to speak up, to call for anything else from the room?!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u85	Don't mess with the hall, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u86	Well, I can't start.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u87	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u88	Am I ready?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u89	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u90	The situation today can be likened to something that the people have said very clearly and once again: a hungry chicken is dreaming. A few days ago, I said that Radev and Cornelia will corrupt the fair protests of Bulgarian citizens. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And today I was right again. At Radev and Cornelia's call...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u91	Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u92	Mrs. Ninova, I'm sorry. ...to block the parliament a few Bulgarian citizens, not to their call, but came such true protesters who told them: "Outside! [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u93	Mr. Mareshki, I'm worried that...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u94	This is for the protests, not for the vote of no confidence. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I'm talking about the protests that were and continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u95	Yeah, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u96	Why does the Bulgarian people not listen to the calls of Mr. Radev and Mrs. Ninova? Because they understand that there is no sincerity in what they say and the path to which they lead it. Because they see some of the most vicious practices in the European Parliament, they are supposedly opposition to the EPP and Radan Kanev, but in Bulgaria they are together with the so-called pseudo-right. Exactly the things that disgust the Bulgarian citizens at all costs, only to get your hands on the bone. The BSP for Bulgaria do not even listen to the call of their own president. At the call: "Mouthy, out! " we see that they are still standing.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u97	Mr. Mareshki, please! [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u98	Several times Mr. Radev's appeal today was mentioned precisely by the Left. At this call, MPs from BSP to Bulgaria believe that they should not listen to their own president.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u99	The goons should be out, not the MPs from BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u100	That is precisely why, because of this double standard, because of this duplicity, because of the personal responsibility of many of the current parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria and from previous governments, especially at Oresharski, from Radev's first office of service, in which we saw that over 80% of the Deputy Ministers are from the Oresharski cabinet, and before that from the office of the NDSV and so on, we saw the total helplessness and lack of all qualities and professional, and moral, to fight for the rights for which all Bulgarian citizens insist. To the call, precisely by listening to the Bulgarian citizens, all of us to resign both the President and the government and the National Assembly, only as usual, we responded to the Volya. We're the only ones ready right now, right now, to hand in our resignations! [[(Lowered noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria]] We're the only party no one's protesting. [[(Laughter) Loud noise.)]] Yes, we are the only party against which there is not a single protester in the squares and we are the only ones who are ready to listen to the will of the Bulgarian people. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] That's why they don't want you and you'll never come to power! That's why your vote of no confidence won't pass! That is why you will lose the next elections because you are unable to manage Bulgaria! Thank you. [[(Applause from the Bulgarian Rhodolists.) Partial applause by GERB.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u101	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. There is a declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the United Patriarchs. I thank the members of the Council of Ministers. The votes are closed, so I wish you a good job! Here you are, Mr. Bogdanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u102	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! It's July 20th! On this day in 1903, the Chief Staff of the Bitola Revolutionary District proclaimed the beginning of the heroic Ilinden-Preobraise Uprising. It is a kind of peak in the activities of the Internal Macedonian-Odrin revolutionary organization which since its establishment in 1893. Ten years, tirelessly preparing for this memorable day. The autonomy of Macedonia and Adrianople became a flag of all the enslaved Bulgarians in the Ottoman Empire, as well as for the citizens of free Bulgaria, there are hundreds of revolutionary committees, the Chetnik Institute, established by the Apostle, is growing, created by Gotse Delchev, in Macedonia and Adrianople are operating dozens of revolutionary readings. The situation is strained by the unsuccessful reformed acts of the Great Powers, by the many affairs, the Chetnic action of 1895 and the Gornojumay uprising of 1902. The decision on the uprising was taken in early 1903 at a congress under the chairmanship of Ivan Garvanov, held at the Thessaloniki Bulgarian Men's High School. St. Cyril and Methodius.. the largest educational center of the Bulgarians who remained under Turkish rule. The uprising must erupt permanently in the Reverend on July 20, "Ilinden," in Adrianople on August 6th. "Prefiguration," and in Strushimko, Thessaloniki and Sersko on September 14th, Krastovden. According to the unambiguous assessment of historians, this is the largest uprising against the Turkish authorities on the Balkan Peninsula. The greatest is not only its reach from the Lake of Ohrid to the adherents to Constantinople, but also on an unimaginable feat and sacrifice in the name of freedom. In the uprising took part the color of the Bulgarian revolutionary thought and actions "Dame Gruev, Boris Sarafov, Anastas Lozanchev, Hristo Uzunov, Jane Sandanski, Vasil Chekalarov and hundreds of others. A number of worthy Bulgarian military men, General Ivan Tsonchev, Boris Dragov, Hristo Chernopeev, Krasto Bulgaria, ignore positions and salary and throw themselves into the fight for the liberation of the slave brother. Unforgettable are the manifestations of mass heroism from the glorious Krushevo of Mechkin Stone, where the voivod Pitu Gully, like the Spartan king Leonid, together with all his reading, does not give in to the numerous Turkish adversary, remain in position and perish to the last man. In Strandzha Mountain, severely wounded, the chief voivod Georgi Kondolov ordered his boys to kill him and on his grave instead of shed tears, twist bloody horo. Against the rebel Bulgarians the Ottoman Empire casts a regular army and Bashibozuk. According to data from the Memoir of the Internal Organization of 1904 in the Bitola and Odrin Villaette, 239 battles took place, involving 26,000 rebels against 350-thousand Turkish troops. The fighting killed 994 rebels, 201 villages burned, 4600 people killed from the peaceful population, and 25,000 other residents of Macedonia and Adrianople seek salvation in free Bulgaria. The uprising shows the incompatibility of two civilisational approaches to European democratism and Ottoman despotism. In this sense, the Ilinden Uprising is the civilization choice of the Bulgarians from Macedonia and Adrianople. The failure of the uprising sharpened the situation in the European southeast, and the unrealized Bulgarian national ideal became one of the main reasons for the subsequent wars for national unification, an ideal paid with the blood of more than 200,000 worthy Bulgarian sons. Today, 117 years after the Ilinden-Preobrazilian Uprising, lost in timelessness and small political struggles, the memory of these brave men's feat fades more and more. By bowing our heads in worship, we must realize today's generations that their sacrifice is not in vain and their work is not finished that Bulgaria is where even one Bulgarian lives, that if there is a drop of the hot blood left in our veins of Hindus, we must continue the fight! Long live Bulgaria! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u103	Thank you, dear Mr. Bogdanov. Colleagues, in connection with the conclusion of the debate on the draft decision on the government's no-confidence vote, I propose that it be accepted: ?? RESPONSIBILITY: On the basis of art. 48, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to hold an extraordinary plenary session on 21 July 2020, Tuesday, 11:30 on the following agenda: Point one. Vote for a draft decision to vote on mistrust of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria with Prime Minister Boyko Borisov because of the failure in anti-corruption policy. Importers: Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 15 July 2020 Please, voting mode. Vote 177 MPs: for 176, there is no abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Due to the exhaustion of today's agenda, I am adjourned.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-20.u104	Tomorrow, July 21, 2020 at 11:30. This is an extraordinary meeting. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
