ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-08.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. My fellow Members, I will read to you the Order on the basis of which today's sitting is called: DELEGATION of the President of the National Assembly On the basis of art. 78, p. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria I DELIVER: I call an extraordinary plenary session of the 44th National Assembly on 8 May 2020, Friday, at 11:00 on the following agenda: Point one. First vote on the Bill amending the Health Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 5 May 2020. [[crowd cheering in the hall.]] Colleagues, please take your seats and remain silent! I'll wait a little longer. I will read several messages until the House is calmed down and the MPs take their seats: A bill amending and supplementing the Tourism Act. Importers "Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism is the lead. Annual report of the Bulgarian National Bank for 2019. Importer is Bulgarian National Bank. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance. A bill to supplement the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. Importers "Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Internal Security and Public Order is the lead. Draft amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act. The representatives of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of the People's Republic of China and of the People's Republic of China are representatives of the People's Republic of China and of The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the provision of consulting services between the Ministry of Education and Science and the Executive Agency "Science and Education for Smart Growth" on the one hand, and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, on the other hand, signed on 12 February 2020. The Importer is the Council of Ministers. It has been allocated to the Committee on Education and Science. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency Situation, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020. Importers "Valery Simeonov, Hristian Mitev and Boris Yachev. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Draft Law supplementing the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Bill amending the Health Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Messages: Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria in implementation of art. 65, para. 1 of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that by order he has authorised the dispatch and use of a single helicopter with crew of soldiers from the Air Force of the Republic of Bulgaria to provide air transport for the needs of the Joint Command of the Forces, for the transport of soldiers from the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria participating in the stabilizing forces of NATO in Kosovo (KFOR), by route: Plovdiv Airport, Pristina, the Republic of Kosovo, Plovdiv Airport, on 4 May 2020. In accordance with the provisions of the Law, the competent state authorities have been notified. The notification was received on 30 April 2020, with the exception of: No 003 09-31 and granted to the Defence Committee. The Council of Ministers shall, on the basis of art. 105, para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, the National Assembly has received information: - Convergence programme of the Republic of Bulgaria (2020 - 2023)), approved by Council of Ministers Decision No 3030 of 2020. - Update for 2020 of the National Programme for Reforms of the Republic of Bulgaria in implementation of the Strategy "Europe 2020" approved by Decision No 296 of the Council of Ministers of 2020. By letters of the Chair the materials are provided to all Standing Committees and are available in the Library of the National Assembly. The National Assembly received a Report of the Chairman of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund (FTB) on the performance of its functions under the Bankruptcy Act for the period 24 March 2020. The report shall be reviewed and discussed on 23 April 2020 and Protocol No 12 of the Board of Directors meeting of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund, held on 27 April 2020. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report and the Protocol were sent to the Budget and Finance Committee. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. The National Statistical Institute has received information about: - Indexes of domestic and international producer prices in industry, March 2020; - Business Conjuncture in April 2020 The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Colleagues, we are moving to the first item of today's agenda, which is also the only one: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE HEALTH LAW, No 002-01-16. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 5 May 2020. Report of the Committee on Legal Affairs Mrs. Alexandrova, come in. Colleagues, just to remind you, please sit down in a chair as ordered in our decision. Please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-08.u2	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! [[Radio, noise.]] ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending the Health Act No 002-01-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 May 2020
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-08.u3	Mrs. Alexandrova, wait a minute so the room can calm down. Colleagues, I ask for silence so that we can hear the report of the leading committee! Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-08.u4	At its extraordinary meeting held on 7 May 2020, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a bill amending the Health Act, No 002 01 16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 May 2020. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Danail Kirilov, Minister of Health; Mr. Kiril Ananiev, Minister, and Mrs. Zheny Nacheva Deputy Minister; Mrs. Nikolina Angelkova, Minister of Tourism; Mrs. Rositsa Velkova, Deputy Minister, and Mrs. Diana Drageva Director of the Department of Legal Contracts; Mr. Georgi Dichev, Chairman; Mr. Georgi Alexandrov, Deputy Director of the Ministry of Finance, and Mrs. Svetla Genova, Director of the Directorate of Action and Methodology; Mrs. Georgi Dichev, Chairman of the Chamber of Private Chamber of Commerce in Bulgaria, Mr. Svetlin Dimitrov; from the Supreme Council of Justice Mrs. Valya Gygova; from the Association of Bulgarian Administrative Judges Mr. Lubomir Gaidov, Chairman of the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce in Bulgaria. The bill was presented by Mr. Ananiev, Mr. Kirilov, Mrs. Angelkova and Mrs. Velkova. It was pointed out that in relation to the country's emergency situation, announced by the National Assembly's Decision of 13 March 2020 and its extension until 13 May 2020, it is necessary to take measures within the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria to protect, limit and overcome the effects of the spread of the COVID-19 virus for the time after the end of the emergency situation. The draft law aims to establish a legal framework that will contribute to reducing and delay the spread of the COVID-19 virus virus and to ensure the functioning of the health system. The spread of the disease is an exceptional epidemic public health situation at national and global level and poses a threat to our national security. The introduction of measures is of extremely high public importance, and delay or untimely implementation can result in significant and difficult damage to people's lives and health, healthcare and social systems. The Law proposes amendments to the Health Act, which ensure the introduction of anti-epidemic measures by the Minister of Health and which will have effect after the expiry of the emergency situation on 13 May 2020. The measures are intended to be determined by an act of the Minister of Health or the Director of the Regional Health Inspectorate concerned on a proposal from the Chief State Health Inspector. The measures will be put in place by order of art. 73 of the Administrative Procedure Code in urgent circumstances or with a regulation to be promulgated in the Official Journal. The proposed amendments to the Administrative Procedure Code shall ensure the efficient and timely implementation of the measures by introducing a two-month period for examining the dispute. Changes relating to compulsory isolation and hospital treatment are proposed, and the conditions and procedures for mandatory isolation of patients from infectious diseases, infectious diseases, contact persons and persons who have entered the territory of the country from other countries will be determined by a regulation of the Minister of Health. With amendments to the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, the Code of Labour, the Code of Social Security and the Law on the Civil Service Officer shall be adjusted deadlines for the socio-economic, financial and health measures provided for therein, as part of the deadlines shall be extended by up to two months from the cancellation of the emergency situation and their scope shall be extended. It is envisaged that unpaid leave of up to 60 working days will be respected for work and insurance service in 2020. In order to avoid the collection of one place for large groups of students, it is proposed that during the academic year 2019/2020 the national external evaluation at the end of the IV and X class should not be carried out and that the level of competence for the relevant stage should be established after the beginning of the academic year 2020/021. It is also envisaged that the admission of students from the combined schools in the XI class for the academic year 2020/021 should be carried out only on the basis of final assessments of the study subjects from the certificate for the completion of the first high school stage of secondary education. The bill also introduces the obligation for the medical establishments designated for the treatment of the contamination with the COVID-19 virus to carry out a monthly inspection of the technical condition of the energy sites and the provision of treatment facilities and plants for the disinfection of waste water treatment plants. The discussion was attended by the MPs Krum Zarkov, Philip Popov, Krasimir Tzipov and Stoyan Bozhinov. Mr. Zarkov and Mr. Popov said they would refrain from supporting the bill and make a proposal to refine the texts between first and second readings. Mr. Tsipov expressed the need to support the bill in order to protect the life and health of Bulgarian citizens and to introduce measures to continue their action after 13 May 2020. As a result of the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 14 votes for the Health Act, No 002-01-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 May 2020, proposed that the National Assembly adopt a bill amending the Health Act, No 002-01-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 May 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-08.u5	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Mikhailov. Colleagues, I would like to ask you to put on all your masks as they command the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in the situation we are in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-08.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Ministers! Today we have the exclusive task of discussing a bill concerning the end of the state of emergency, and therefore I believe that we will deal with the necessary operationality and seriousness and the debates will be at the height of the requirements that the nation has to us. At the beginning of my speech, I will ask you not only to invite but to ensure the order in this House, which was adopted by the Presidency of the National Assembly, which we agreed on and which otherwise provides all this masquerade when people are together. The masks have no value, Madam President, and either we work as the Conference of Presidents decides, or we break the rules and things will be the same.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-08.u7	I see your parliamentary group is breaking the rules, Mr. Mihailov!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-08.u8	No, no! Take a look around the whole room, Madam President. Do not constantly stare at a parliamentary group, and you will see that things are not the way it was decided at the Conference of Presidents. But it's a detour, that's not what's important in my speech, it's just a polite remark to the work we're doing right now. I will take the attitude, naturally as a health care professional, on the issues that really concern the Health Act, and not the subsequent additional provisions, which include more than 15 questions. It is disappointing to me that regardless of the situation we are in, the Health Commission did not take up its own meeting on the issue of the Health Act, which would have been in favor of both the Council of Ministers and the honourable Minister of Health and the entire nation. I would like to strongly state as a specialist and as a member of the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria, that we cannot accept the full responsibility for the subsequent anti-epidemic measures on the head of Mr. Ananiev and the Chief Health Inspector. With all due respect to the financial expertise of Minister Ananiev and the health inspector, this is a solution which we share with the public many times already - a solution that has multi-layered consequences on many areas of life in Bulgaria. In no way can the Council of Ministers escape its responsibility, bring it down on one of its ministers and make the decisions that will in one way or another affect public, political, economic and all kinds of life in Bulgaria in the days that will follow the state of emergency. We will submit our proposals between first and second readings. I call on us to be very careful in the measures that will be taken not only with regard to the Health Act, but also with all the other aspects that concern such a proposed bill in order for it to be at the height, as many times we have witnessed contradictions in the orders issued by the Minister of Health, which fell after hours or days, which have been contradicted by many complaints at the moment and these complaints will still be dealt with in the Bulgarian courts. All of this requires now that we have the experience we have to be much more precise and really useful to our nation. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-08.u9	Thank you, Mr. Mihailov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? Here you go, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-08.u10	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, colleagues! It is not easy the situation of the government at the moment, and we, as opposition, are aware of this. Our support for measures against the spread of the virus is unreserved at this time. On the other hand, however, we refrain from supporting at first reading, as there are things that simply cannot be overcome. They're in three main directions. First of all, the so-called emergency emergency situation has no constitutional basis. In our view, this could lead to unforeseen legal consequences. Secondly, there is another bill in the Bill.. The one concerning tax warehouses and so on, even as a volume greater than the health measures themselves. It deserves separate attention, a separate legislative initiative. This is not the right technique, especially in a time of crisis. Thirdly, these measures will continue after the emergency situation. The importers point out in their reasoning that the adopted first-reading bill in the Commission is in relation to the infection of COVID-19, but the measures actually put in place will also apply much later. There is a great deal of power in the hands of the Minister of Health. It is no coincidence in the Constitution that the introduction of any state of emergency is only in the hands of the National Assembly. From then on, the Minister may, according to the state of emergency, restrict citizens' rights. Now the minister will be able to do it, I stress, at any time forward in the future. This is not acceptable to us. Our proposals between first and second readings will be mainly in defence of the most vulnerable, because this crisis can and has a real risk to affect Bulgarian workers, people with the lowest incomes. That is where our legislative initiative is, with most of the measures that we will offer to your attention between first and second readings being defended back in the years, even at the cost of being accused of populism. I am talking about reducing the rate of VAT on food, about medicines, something we see that many European countries are doing right now. Bulgaria remained the only country with the highest VAT rate for food throughout Europe. At the moment neighbouring Greece, if you will, and its lower rates are falling further, which risks making us uncompetitive, i.e. to get out of this crisis uncompetitive to the other countries. I conclude with the fact that with regard to measures against the epidemic, you will have our support. I hope you will also support what we will propose regarding the Bulgarian economy, workers and Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-08.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Bojankov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? Here you go, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-08.u12	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of Ministers, honourable Members of Parliament! The DPS supports overall changes to the Health Act because there is a need for such a law on measures that will continue to operate after the cancellation of the emergency situation on 13 May in order to limit the Coronavirus epidemic and to help businesses, employment and citizens. In principle, we support changes in art. Art. 61, Art. 63 of the Health Act, which empowers the Minister of Health to introduce measures to protect the lives and health of people throughout the country, in separate settlements and areas. With regard to the chosen legal technique, however, we have reservations, but we hope that they will be refined between first and second readings, for which we will make the relevant proposals on behalf of our parliamentary group. With regard to the notion of an emergency epidemic situation, which is introduced in art. 61, but it still exists in art. Art. 59, Art. 63, I suggest considering the introduction of measures and criteria when such an environment will be present and what it means. As a doctor, I am aware that there is no way to give a fully comprehensive definition of this concept, but some criteria set out in the Law are necessary, or by a regulation to further define them, because it is the existence of this environment that will give the right to introduce restrictive measures against the subjective rights of citizens. As for the changes in the Water Act, as a doctor and as a former Minister of Environment and Water, I support them in principle, but I note that in Bulgaria waste water treatment plants, as indicated in the proposed texts, are not available. Our sewage system and facilities are of mixed type, meaning there is mixing of rainwater and household and fecal waste water. Therefore, our treatment plants are for waste water cleaning as a general concept, not just as domestic-fecal waters. In relation to this feature of our sewage systems and facilities, there are limited cases where emergency pollution may occur with specific unpurified domestic and fecal waste water. For this reason, if the texts remain in this version, they will be virtually unenforceable. I note that some of the measures are intended to operate during a pandemic period. As a doctor, I would like to make it clear that the announcement of a pandemic by the World Health Organization is also relevant with regard to the activation of any individual environmental measures from any individual country, including Bulgaria. If the Minister of Health has declared an exceptional epidemic situation at the heart of which is a disease requiring the application of environmental measures related to the use in the agriculture of sludges and water for watering, or if an emergency situation is declared due to an epidemic situation related to such a disease, then it makes sense to apply such environmental measures rather than when declaring the pandemic as a whole. I note that a pandemic can be caused by a disease the causes of which do not pass from the human organism into the domestic-fecal waters? Then such measures simply do not make sense. I hope that these remarks will be taken into account in the final texts in the amendments to the Water Act. With regard to the support of the municipalities, we generally support the measures implemented in the Law on Measures and Actions during the emergency situation, announced by a decision of the National Assembly on 13 March, and we propose to include assistance to the municipalities due to their difficult financial situation because of their reduced revenues, this is evident from statistics that can be seen in relation to municipalities. In conclusion, I would like to say, on behalf of the parliamentary group, that we have our notes, of course, not only notes, we will also have our proposals between first and second reading until the final adoption of the currently discussed Draft amending the Health Act, so that they are adequate, useful and intended to achieve the relevant objectives. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-08.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Chakarov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-08.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm going to start my speech with a banal phrase that we hear every day, and it's that after the coronavirus pandemic, the world won't be the same. It is no longer the same, and all countries in the world will have to reconsider their understanding of rights, of freedoms, they will have to change their legislation, which will have to happen as quickly as possible. Globally large economies, large and strong countries have been unprepared for what is happening to us. Even if we manage to quickly find a cure, a vaccine against the coronavirus, the consequences of this pandemic will echo perhaps in the next and in the pό next term of the National Assembly. We need to start thinking differently, we need to start changing our legal framework, laws, regulations, all those regulations that define our way of life if we fail to be so disciplined ourselves. Although we had, I dare say, an adequate reaction from the beginning of the government to measures against the coronavirus, we have been able to show that we are not disciplined enough. In the Bill we are currently discussing, there are in any case a lot of frank nonsense that cannot be supported at second reading. But, as some wise people have said, the beginning is half the beginning, we need to start somewhere. Therefore, we will support this bill at first reading by the WOLI, and I hope that all of you and we will submit proposals for corrections before the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-08.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Popovski.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-08.u16	Madam President, honourable Members! The Group of the United Patriarchs will support this Draft Law at first reading. The world has indeed seen a pandemic in the 21st century, unexpected, which has taken serious human sacrifices and even more serious economic consequences for the whole world, although two or three of the things make a particular impression that light conduct is still taking place in Eastern Europe, which gives us one reason to end the emergency situation in Bulgaria at the moment. I draw attention to my fellow Members about April 15th, 20 days ago, in which there were very serious statistics made for the whole of Eastern Europe, including the residual Yugoslavia. Europe was divided by a demarcation line. The border between Germany and Poland and down to Slovenia. It turns out that in the residual Eastern Europe, including the European part of Russia, which is 110 million, lives 40% of Europe's population, there were only 1,000 dead by CIVID-19. In Western Europe, to the left of this demarcation line, there were 65 thousand dead, about to date April 15th, which gave the BCJ vaccine, provided any other features of Balkan immunity and Eastern countries, this still remains a mystery to world science. For Bulgaria the victims are also less, the sick are less than those we predicted could happen at the beginning. However, there is also another alarming trend that I do not know if you have been paying attention to lately? More than 10% of those who are sick, and of the carriers of COVID-19 are medical personnel. The Minister is here to address this issue. We can't have 11% of those infected as medical personnel! This shows that something is limping in the system of anti-epidemic measures of hospitals, hospital care, nursing homes and all kinds of social services and so on. This trend is very worrying, we must break it very quickly! Well, if our patients become 20,000 in a few months, does that mean 2,000 medical personnel need to be infected? Then what's going on? Bulgaria must be left without medical personnel! It's a really disturbing trend. Let's see what's going on in other countries. How much is the rate of infected medical staff there and how much is here? Because here in the last 15 days, it's been moving about 11%, which is not good. The world is waiting for the vaccine, of course. It will probably come from the world centers of "Pastor" is the institute in Paris, the United States, where 13 to 15% of gross domestic product is in medicine. So hopefully these countries, as quickly as possible, with the resources available to them, to make this vaccine and to end this disease forever, as they have been eradicated, you know, cholera, many other plagues, fevers and other infectious diseases throughout the centuries. We are going to support this law because two months of state-of-the-art, Minister Goranov knows best what it costs in the fisk and what it will cost in the future many and social, and all other programmes that are financed by the state budget. If we continue this way, we will find ourselves in a difficult financial situation at the end of the year. Right? I just remind you that for the budget of state social security, you know that every year we have to transfer four billion from the big budget to the budget of state social security, so that we can pay people's pensions and everything else that is paid out of this budget. Hopefully, there will be no severe upheavals, let us return to a normalization of economic life in Bulgaria by this law! Of course, at a second reading, we can make some minor adjustments that, of course, benefit the general situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-08.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Popovski. - What's the line? Here you are, Mrs. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-08.u18	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable Members! I understand the medical ethics in relation to my colleague Popovski, but I think he was not persistent enough, but only alarmed about what was going on with the medical staff, for which, without a doubt, Mr. Ananiev, we need to take special care. He's talking about some passes. There's probably some. What's complicated here is that Dr. Popovski didn't want to say a word and it's called "work medicine." Very few specialties seem to have been neglected, esteemed colleagues, from major medicine, surgery, cardiology. However, there has come a time when they need to be talked about and rules of action should be developed in such situations. Yes, but labor medicine is entirely private in Bulgaria. Labor medicine is subject to the Minister of Health. However, there is a complex combination with another Ministry and this is the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. And there's the Labor Security Inspectorate. So the two ministries should work in a common synchronization, and part of it should rather be checked so that from now on we can ensure that real hospitals and hospitals in general in Bulgaria comply with all the necessary requirements. There are certainly gaps. Because one is the official protocol in terms of both occupational medicine and labour security inspection, but if you go to check and check these medical facilities on invoice when you bought protective equipment, I'll tell you that maybe you won't find anything.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-08.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Naydenova. Another line? A hole, Mr. Popovski? You don't. We continue with the following speeches. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-08.u20	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the Parliament, honourable Ministers! The position of the Bulgarian Socialist Party has already become clear. I will not repeat what my fellow Members have said to save some procedural time, so I would like to add something else and go back to the time when we adopted the Emergency Act, and was there any need to adopt such a law? Because all measures continue to operate through other laws. We have adopted a law that proved to be quite restrictive in time, and with its expiry we find that it is unnecessary after this emergency is not prolonged. On the other hand, we gladly agreed to humiliate ourselves, I mean, the MPs, by interrupting our work. As I can see, at the moment we are all gathered here and are working again, without going through the epidemiological hazard, all the more so that we are starting work after there is an increase in the growth of the infected! Personally, this thing makes an impression on me. Now, measures are being proposed that will continue to operate in the Health Act, on excise duties, the Administrative Procedure Code, that is to say, this could have been done two months ago, but we somehow decided to go down another path - a psychological pressure has been applied to the population and the people's representatives and this specialized law is voted on. The law, of course, had its legal justification, which, however, is lacking at present. Because if the epidemiological infection was mentioned in the Emergency Act, then now this epidemiological infection is lacking its definition, and it must be attached to a disaster situation and what is a disaster so that the acts of the Minister of Health may have their legal burden and not be insignificant and be successfully attacked before administrative courts. On the other hand, in the law itself we also change the title that will be seen and proposed actions that are post-epidemiology, but I do not see such actions and such measures being applied, even more so for the broad part of society. I will not dwell on health measures, at all other actions in the administrative process that are shifting two months ahead, and we will support it, but I would like to draw attention, however, to the interests of citizens, that this law will not act there at all. I would also like to draw attention to these citizens, as well, we do not know how many they are, perhaps the health minister can hint and tell if there are 20, 30, 50 or 100 thousand, these citizens are in quarantine. They cannot exercise their actions if they take any action to meet with their lawyer or go to court, they will be in violation of their quarantine and subject to a penalty. In other words, it should be considered for these citizens: between first and second reading there should be such proposals, not to run perhaps the time limits or to have any relieved effect on them. In the course of everything I've said so far, all I can say is that we will abstain from voting. We will make our proposals between first and second readings. However, my request to the Members of the National Assembly is between first and second readings not to vote on a party principle, but to set aside reasonable proposals that would benefit people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-08.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Baichev. - What's the line? I won't. Are there any other statements? Mr. Zarkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-08.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Much is yet to be discussed about what has been done and what has not been done during and after the emergency situation. Not now is the time for full evaluation, for the simple reason that the state of emergency is continuing. Whether it is called an emergency or with a new wording that is currently stated in the Law. In fact, today, when we discuss the purpose and philosophy of a law proposed at first reading, that is precisely what it is. You propose that the state of emergency continue, but you can say that it is over. This is the exact opposite of the original law that we voted here two months ago, when a law was made, which had to give content to the state of emergency and it failed to fulfil its function. Since then, we are in a spiral, which practically speaks one thing, happens quite differently and people feel it. It is the opinion that the state of emergency is what causes their inconvenience, while constitutionally the state of emergency is created to guarantee their rights even in the worst crisis. It gives the impression that measures are being granted or are being tightened, and in fact things are being seen with the naked eye, they are going largely on their own. There is constantly talk about the discipline of Bulgarian citizens. For the most part, they were responsible. Of course, some pictures or images are used to make sense and understanding that, see, if something doesn't work, it's because people didn't follow the measures! What measures, though? And speaking of citizen discipline, let us also talk about discipline of the authorities who are called constitutionally to rule this country! The Council of Ministers has its objectives and powers. The headquarters that was created gives its recommendations. What, though, was the National Assembly supposed to do in this direction? It didn't just have to create a law to have it, and this law had to give clarity and the legality of the various restrictive orders that were imposed. Clarity in the sense of being clear once and for all what can and cannot be done. Legality, in order not to overwhelm the courts with complaints against possible measures that tomorrow. How will these cases end, and what will follow from this, including the budget, we cannot predict today? And we won't be able to fix it with changes to the Administrative Procedure Code made now to solve this particular case. When there was no clarity, different behaviors appeared, and the effectiveness of the measures themselves lost to this thing. In the original version of the Emergency Act there was art. 1 in which the various restrictive measures to be taken were issued. This article. 1 was repealed between first and second reading and replaced by one that enables the Minister of Health to issue these orders. As a result, according to the public sentiment one day the rules were one, the next day different. People have lost a great deal of confidence in them. This approach continues now. I and my fellow Members understand that in a dynamic situation there is a need for flexibility, but we are also sufficiently sure that the National Assembly will be able to exercise responsibility in its entirety and give the exact parameters that simultaneously provide the clarity we are talking about and the flexibility that the Operational Headquarters and the government need. The other thing that this law had to do was to ensure the fullness and justice of the compensatory measures. Fullness in the sense of really as many people as possible to receive government support, that no one feels abandoned and fair to make it clear that this money is going to be allocated billions to those who have suffered. Specifically now under the bill that is being proposed to us because it is a bill for changing the Law on Emergency, not the Law on Health. In the Health Act one thing is changing and it is giving the Minister the opportunity to announce when there is an epidemic, emergency situation. That's not a new term. It has existed for 10 years in the Bulgarian legislation in the same law. But now it's called who can do it. We consider and have raised enough concerns as to whether the Minister of Health has a constitutional right alone, although on the recommendation of the Chief State Inspector, to be borne with this responsibility. With regard to specific texts. There are good and right things about this law. These things are the opening of courts and various measures that will contribute to restoring trade turnover, respecting the various sanitary criteria, and this needs to be done, to continue the measures that will help businesses and citizens by two months from now. This must, of course, be done not least because many of these measures have been announced, but have not yet started to be operational, for example, the micro-enterprises that we welcome for micro-enterprises' grants. The fact that clarity is being made about how the school year will end should also be done because people are worried and parents wonder. But there are some things that aren't right. I have already explained that it cannot be allowed only to the Minister to determine what these measures are that they release, close cities or bring in, or get people out of the streets. There is also nothing in terms of large groups of people who so far remain completely forgotten. I immediately think of the self-employed and the petition of the cultural figures who are walking, despite the announced measures, those who have lost any income because they are on unpaid leave, whether because their paid leave is already exhausted or because they are forced to watch their children who cannot go to nursery and kindergartens. There's nothing for these people yet! And we will make appropriate proposals for this to happen. It is also impressive, and we made it clear in the Commission that one of the few measures that will not be extended by two months after the cancellation of the emergency situation next week is one of the most social measures that we have foreseen, namely Article. 6 from now on the current law, which defended those who were in difficulty from penal interest and other penalties because they did not fulfil their credit obligations to banks in time. This thing you're not offering to raise. It makes no sense, since we believe that some supportive measures should continue, that this should not continue. I hope you'll evolve on this matter. And finally. There are things that need to be done, there are things that, unfortunately, need to be reconsidered. We cannot simply support this law because it translates essentially its philosophy into the midnight briefing, when tonight on television we will find out what we and other citizens have to do tomorrow. This is not the right approach. It is not effective and is not lawful. We will refrain from his support for this reason. We will do everything possible for Bulgarian citizens to get the law they deserve. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-08.u23	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? Any other speeches? Mrs. Ninova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-08.u24	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members of the House! We, as a parliamentary group, supported the introduction of the state of emergency because we understand the seriousness and responsibility of all politicians at such a critical time. Moreover, we made proposals when we introduced the emergency situation, which improved Parliament's decision. I would just like to remind you that at the insistence of the BSP for Bulgaria it was limited by a deadline and took into account basic constitutional requirements for the protection of the rights of Bulgarian citizens. Now that we're moving towards a cancellation of the state of emergency, but staying in the state of emergency, I actually think the conversation should have gone another way, and we still have time to do it another way. Firstly, we believe that today the government should report on the current measures: what is their impact in at least three aspects? In the health aspect. How have the current measures affected the control of the crisis, the saving of human life, the limitation of the spread of the disease? However, a report on the state of the health system, on the model of financing of hospitals in Bulgaria, as well as on the payment, creation and development of staff in the health system. Next, secondly, here we should have had an analysis of how the current measures have affected Bulgaria's economic and financial aspects: what is the decline in the economy? What is expected in budget revenues? Because the confusion regarding Bulgaria's finances is becoming complete. In February, Minister Goranov announced that we were on surplus, in March, the Prime Minister said we were at a deficit of 3 and a half billion. It turns out on official reports that for the first quarter, we still have a surplus. However, we have adopted an update of the budget with up to 10 billion credits. lv. I doubt whether anyone in the country already knows what the real state of finance and the budget is! And here, when we take the next steps on the state of emergency, this report and analysis was necessary because it will give us the basis on which to make subsequent decisions. What measures should be applied from now on? Well, there's no government financial and economic analysis! And the third thing we should be hearing today before making decisions on how to proceed from here on is the social aspect of the crisis - new unemployed, level of income, impoverishment, price growth, which is visible in recent weeks, a necessary analysis to take decisions on economic and social measures from now on. This was supposed to be the first part of our conversation, and, again, it's not too late to have it seriously and responsibly. The second part we expected the government to present here today a clear plan of what we are doing ahead. There's no such plan. There are simply proposals to cancel the word "emergency," but to continue the measures. This plan had to rest on a serious analysis of the forecasts given by the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, the European Central Bank, the European partners and the opportunities of the Bulgarian budget. To make some predictions in two options, to say what is expected in the coming months in the economy and in the social sphere and to distribute to the banks of the MPs opportunities, options for action from now on. You must know that in the motives of the Law it says that it is the Law to overcome the consequences of the spread and infection with COVID-19. Overcoming the consequences said in the motives, in the title, but there is nothing similar in the content. There is no new measure, not only no analysis, no forecasts, there is no clear plan: from now on this will be done, this will be done, this with deadlines, with commitments. No! There is simply no measure to overcome the consequences, as is the title and the motives of the Law. What is happening is that the measures are extended by two months and are left to the Minister of Health to decide from now on by his own acts, regulations or orders what should happen in the country. Dear colleagues, you must understand that this a priori creates uncertainty and we do not tell you that. Here, yesterday, restaurant owners, hotel managers came out and said: "You allow us to open the restaurants. We are not going to do this because we are not sure what will happen tomorrow, whether the minister will have one order at night to shut us down again, as happened the first time on Friday night, and we burned with the goods we had purchased, with the plans we had made. This uncertainty is a big problem for the development of the economy, for business to give them help and incentives. Not only does the state not help them effectively, but with these measures that you are proposing today, we increase the uncertainty in them and they will probably wait, which will lead to an even greater budget loss. What are we proposing a few times now, because we are not just here to criticize the government? We propose a clear plan to overcome the consequences and to get out of the crisis. Here I would like to turn from the platform of the Bulgarian National Assembly to the Bulgarian professionals economists and financiers who are currently forgotten, and we have wonderful Bulgarian specialists in the Academy of Sciences, in various institutes, in NGOs even institutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-08.u25	Even in parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-08.u26	Come, let us gather and decide what to do with Bulgaria from now on in economic, financial and social terms. It is obvious that the government does not have the capacity to resolve this issue. We heard it from the prime minister himself last time here from the tribune, who said, "We don't have a plan, we're going to act a hell of a miscarriage and as it happened." So I call on the professionals of Bulgaria not only to let us politicians take these decisions, to participate actively, professionally and competently in this discussion. We propose that this plan contains not only economic analysis but covers the social sphere, assistance to municipalities, the development of agriculture and the reforms that the crisis has shown are necessary. We from BSP for Bulgaria have been demanding these reforms for years. They are not accepted by you, you reject them, but it is our consistent and firm policy. I am sure that you are convinced that the crisis has shown that a reform of the health system is needed, that another economic model of development of Bulgaria is needed. This is required by objective facts that the supply chains of goods, the connectivity of the economies suffered so that it caused the world, Europe, and Bulgaria, to look into what is national production, which is the aid of the state to develop its own economy, what is this role of the state in health and education, what is this role of the state to provide food to its own people when you have given it to... big state issues that you will not raise today. You will accept that this paragraph cancels another paragraph. Out there, people will never know what you've accepted today. The big questions will remain and more and more negatives will accumulate for this. I would like to ask one more question about spending money on all of us, our money and the issue of transparency. During the state of emergency, you denied parliamentary and parliamentary control as a form of mutual control between the authorities. I believe that we will restore it, but since we know how parliamentary control is being done, how often the Prime Minister and the government perform their functions under the Constitution, I propose that a temporary committee be set up by all parliamentary groups to determine how the funds of the Bulgarians are being spent, all of us, in relation to the costs of managing the crisis and its consequences. This committee to call ministers to its meetings to report, to summarize the information, to make it public. We propose to be headed by the opposition, as it is throughout the democratic world, if we want to have real control over transparency and spending money. Today we bring this proposal to the Ministry and we rely wisely and rightly to discuss it and to decide: will there be real control over spending, or will we learn from the media that they have gone to collector companies, casinos and so on at a time of extreme difficulty for Bulgaria and the Bulgarian people? In conclusion, we will abstain under this law because there are texts that are good and we would support and at second reading we will support them, especially the social texts with which we relieve, give help to people. There are texts we don't approve of. At second reading, we will clearly say our proposals as an alternative to those you are importing. In general, it is a fact that the government has not reported to this day and has not done an analysis of its own actions.... where have you sinned and what consequences this led to; where have you been right and what consequences this led to? The fact is that you do not have a clear plan of action from now on, which is extremely dangerous for the development of Bulgaria in the coming years. Not months, years! The fact is that to this day you have not heard any constructive and sensible proposal from the opposition. We will continue in this way, where you are wrong, you will face resistance; where you are right, especially with the care of the people, you will meet support. We will continue to insist on proposals that we are making, which are reasonable and justified, which are an alternative to governance. Finally, I hope that Parliament will work as a place where this dialogue will take place, where arguments and ideas will collide and where decisions on the future of Bulgaria will be made, on the welfare of the Bulgarian people. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-08.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. You have the floor for lines. We continue with the speeches. Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-08.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow ministers, fellow MPs! It has already been two very difficult months for the whole world in terms of the health aspect of the fact that many people have lost their lives, many people are in quarantine, in isolation. Many people have lost their jobs, many people will most likely continue to suffer the hardships of the situation created by the arrival of this new coronavirus. There's been a lot of arguments. However, I would like to thank you for the constructive debate we are having today. I think this is Parliament's job, and so we have to show the public how to debate. I accept with satisfaction that the opposition sees positive things in the Bill, which is considered by the Council of Ministers today. But there were some things I couldn't agree with. One was about the economic measures of the government, or so the prophesied thesis that you see, the government has no plan. Firstly, my fellow Members, I would like to point out that, on 13 May, with the end and expiry of the action for the Emergency Act, nothing changes. This is not a sacramental date where: end, no more epidemiological situation, all healthy and happy, people go back to work, we start living normal. I really wish it were, but really, and you realize that each one of us realizes that this can't be possible. The bill that we are looking at today can be described as the second stage of the emergency situation. Although he has no title with the word "extraordinary," we still, colleagues, will find ourselves in such a situation for a long time most likely. Whether it will be called an emergency or some other, we are ultimately obliged to predict and be flexible in terms of what measures should be imposed from a health point of view and in terms of the economic and social problems that this causes. Therefore, the bill that we are looking at today, I think we really need to describe as phase two. It is an answer to the question of how we will gradually, smoothly enter from a very restrictive way of life to a slightly more relieved one, but with the clear mind and not by accident in the Law are clearly regulated the powers of the Minister of Health concerning health measures and the legal possibility for him to take such by means of his own acts or regulations, precisely with the possibility of having his flexibility. Because without this flexibility, if we adopt a bill that we are adopting today or in the coming days, which gives some much longer-term review of what measures should be, how measures should be, I am convinced that in different situations we can and should give this opportunity to the minister to be much more adaptive to the current situation. The criticism about the fact that some measures have been adopted, and you see, the next day, I don't think that's a problem. A problem would be something very different, because this is about measures that we ultimately have no idea about or are looking for the best solution.... may not be the most true in today, can be corrected because that is the situation. If anyone had any very clear plan to go into the world situation, we would have copied it, but on the contrary. I believe that we must respect the work of the people, of the Minister of Health, of the entire government, of all doctors, of all people who also contribute to the Staff. I'm sure these people in these two months have done their best. They are entrusted with the health of the nation and to give the best recommendations. We have to respect that thing. After all, we should not be antagonizing a measure because it has been adopted today, and tomorrow it has been cancelled. There's nothing so scary about that thing. In the end, whatever measures we adopt, whatever measures the Minister of Health takes, the most depends on people's self-consciousness is not to frighten anyone, but to realize the problem we face. I think that to a large extent people really contributed to Bulgaria being on the final rankings by number of infected and by number of deceased people. From now on, the bill aims, on the one hand, to preserve the possibility at all times, God forbid, if the disease spreads at a faster pace, to have the possibility of reacting, on the one hand, from the point of view of the health measures, and in the other part of the bill, to continue all the economic and social measures that were adopted in the first part of the Emergency Act voted on 13 March. I don't agree with the theory that, you see, there's no plan. On the contrary, a number of measures worth more than 4 billion and a half have been adopted in recent weeks. Most likely they'll extend. The purpose of these measures is to cover each group concerned. Every single one of them! The government's announcement is that these measures continue to expand, expand their circle. I cannot agree that there are no economic measures. On the contrary, there are economic measures. The most important thing to say about today's bill is that it aims to try the state, the government to go to the second stage of the development of the disease, namely to start living, to get used to the idea that this virus will exist, that there will probably be people who will lose their lives, perhaps as much as we do not want to, but we need to learn to live with this virus. We're giving the possibility that, eventually, if a worse scenario happens, there's an opportunity to react. That's what this bill does. I think that we should all support it, even though you on the left have comments on the Bill, on specific texts, would be a good sign if all the parliamentary groups supported it because I think it is good. Yes, there may be texts that can be cleared, we too will probably make proposals between first and second votes, but this would be a good sign to the public that the government, the political class, is going in the direction of normalising the situation and hopefully keeping what it is now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-08.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. - What's the line? You have the floor, Mr. Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-08.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honourable Ministers! Dear Mr. Nenkov, I am glad that you appreciate the debate as constructive...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-08.u31	Excuse me, Mr. Mikhailov, you don't have time for a line. I'm gonna have to ask you to be polite as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-08.u32	I want to tell you two things. The decision on the extension of anti-epidemic measures to be taken by the Minister of Health is subject to the very complex consequences they have. I'll give you just one example, because I have a note from the chairman, and I'll finish. You remember what great public tensions the closing of parks in individual cities in the country led to. It was a paradoxical situation for people to be able to move on the streets, but not to be able to move children who are extremely sensitive to immobilisation. This caused a very large public reaction, but too late reacted to it. Too late! We can give many examples in the world. Our remark on the overall actions of this law is that they should be in the responsibility of the Council of Ministers and not of a minister, as anti-epidemic decisions have many different cancers as consequences. This should not be missed by the Members of the National Assembly when deciding on the formation of this bill as a law in force. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-08.u33	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Is there another line? Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-08.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Professor Mikhailov, I agree. A measure, whenever introduced, does not mean that it must be forever. These are temporary measures. However, it is a fact that thanks to the government and we as MPs, we have accepted that Bulgaria will enter such an emergency regime. Obviously more powers of the government to deal with this situation, it has led to Bulgaria being with some of the most liberal measures at this stage. I have two small children, and it would certainly affect them, including difficult, the inability to go to the park, because between four walls of each one is difficult. And it's no coincidence now that this bill we're looking at today, and that's why I said, some second step is to normalize as far as possible, our life from an economic and social point of view. But at the end of the day, the Minister of Health, yes, may the Council of Ministers, whether the Council of Ministers or the Minister of Health, respectively, in the end when it comes to health-related anti-epidemic measures, which should lead the Minister of Health, and not the National Operational Headquarters. That's why I just said that these are people we owe a lot to, and we should in no way question their work. The parks measure that you specifically addressed was dictated by the fact that many people, including myself, had people who simply failed to comply with the restrictions that were imposed. That doesn't mean people used to gather around the blocks because there were those, and I've seen them. So I just mentioned that in the end, whatever measures we take, there's no way that every single cop could be on every single block watching what people do. It's all very much about self-awareness. When we look at other more developed countries, you will see that they even had such a regime in neighbouring Greece, where you can't get out and the fine is 300 euros if you leave without getting a text back. Without getting a text back! There are cases like this. So the measures are temporary, and that is precisely why the Law aims to give this operational opportunity to take such measures or to relax when the epidemic situation allows it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-08.u35	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Any other speeches? Come in, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-08.u36	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! On March 13th we agreed on one thing that Bulgaria had an urgent and urgent need to introduce the state of emergency. And I am glad that then everyone in the Chamber, of all political forces without political bias, accepted it in order to preserve and preserve the lives of Bulgarian citizens. This recognition we have received from all over Europe and from all over the world is that we have adopted the most timely measures to limit the spread of COVID-19. At the same time, this timely reaction of us both to Parliament and the government allowed Bulgaria to have the softest measures in terms of isolation, closing of businesses, isolation of citizens and closing of its borders. We need to stress that, fellow Members. I think this is entirely a credit to the government, supported by the Bulgarian Parliament. In this regard, we can also say the following: the government has not stopped all the time to provide these green transport corridors, to provide medicines, to support the Bulgarian economy and industry, which the government has moved to produce protective clothing, masks and everything we need to deal with so that we do not depend on external factors in relation to these remedies and I think we have achieved it. We have achieved it with a result which, again, to highlight that it is recognised in Europe because the Bulgarian business receives requests and does not even manage, as far as I understand, at times to meet these requests. Another thing, fellow Members, which I do not agree with from the speeches of the negotiators, is that once you see, there is no report. Well, report, colleagues, the least we can do is use online or listen to the speech of people from headquarters and people from the government. Here I can quote data with the permission of Minister Sacheva that just on the day yesterday there are 10 298 Bulgarian employer companies, which thanks to the measure 60/40, colleagues, from the Law on which the deadline will expire on 13 May, but we have the opportunity to extend it, the measure 60/40 has been working until now, as I say, until yesterday these 10 298 companies with the help of the state, with the help of the government have preserved 151 801 Bulgarian workers. Is this, if it is not a more explicit report, colleagues, of the working measure 60/40 you continue to criticise, I think you should agree. The other thing is, colleagues, we're talking about unemployment. Yes, certainly, unfortunately, world unemployment is showing at what levels.. and in America there were 30 million, if I am not mistaken yesterday, which is about 10% of the population of America. Bulgaria started this year with 4.5% unemployment, if I am not mistaken, and in the course of the crisis and the measures we are implementing, I hope it will fall, but will not become more than 7%. When was she so low in another period? So, colleagues, with all the criticisms there are certainly things that between first and second reading will be proposed and accepted. Minister Angelkova yesterday, for my great satisfaction, the decree that we will offer and find more clearly and clearly how to sign the concession fee measure precisely to save Bulgarian tourism, which gives a great added value of gross domestic product. We have to think about the season that's coming. Colleagues, I don't agree that there's no plan. It is in this bill, which I hope today that we will adopt at first reading and with your support between first and second reading, with naturally reasonable proposals in the Commission yesterday and with Mr. Zarkov, we have noted measures that can really be concluded, to be dealt with with with responsibility, however, notice, which brings the majority and the Bulgarian government, to deal with. So, colleagues, the most timely, the fastest, the softest measures were in Bulgaria with quite mitigated consequences on the Bulgarian business, which with this bill, which we will adopt at first and, hopefully, at second reading, really continue the Bulgarian economy, Bulgarian tourism, Bulgarian business, Bulgarian production, all sectors, agriculture also know how much subsidised sector is in Bulgaria, to continue to work and contribute to gross domestic product, because without a working economy then there is no way to preserve the social system. And the government has fulfilled its commitment, which is most important, to preserve the social, pension support system. Colleagues, let us adopt this bill and be supported by a maximum number of MPs because it is in the interests of Bulgarian citizens and businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-08.u37	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Mrs. Alexandrova, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-08.u38	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! I am making a procedure to reduce the duration of a bill just discussed to two days. [[Heckling]] Yes, it will be voted in accordance with the procedure in which we vote, to put it to the vote after that to be reduced to two days and the deadline for proposals to be Sunday by 6 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-08.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. I will put your proposal to a vote on the usual order of voting in this situation. Ladies and gentlemen of ministers? There are no speeches. Colleagues, let's start the vote in five minutes. At 12:30, we begin the vote. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-08.u40	Please also have the groups' secretaries take their seats to monitor the vote. Colleagues, we're starting the voting procedure. First, I put to the first vote the bill amending the Health Act. Please, voting mode. 90 MPs voted: 21, none, abstention 69. According to parliamentary groups: from the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Socialists (BSP) I put to the vote the procedural proposal made by Mrs. Alexandrova, for the period between first and second readings for proposals to be made by Sunday, 6 pm. As you know that by the Resolution we have adopted, we have only 24 hours. Now Mrs. Alexandrova proposes to be 48 hours. Please, voting mode. 90 MPs voted: 83, against 3, abstention 4. By parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "61" for, 4 abstentions, DPS "15" for, "VOLYA" for, "Bulgarian patriots" "5" for, non-members of PG "2" for. Thank you, colleagues. Just to let you know that the Commission's second reading meeting will be on Monday. Mrs. Alexandrova will inform you at what time, and on Tuesday the second reading in the Chamber at 1300. After the expiry of the emergency situation, which is on the 13th, on the 14th we begin a regular meeting, and the Conference of Presidents will discuss with the Presidents how the registration will take place and, accordingly, whether we will keep it this way. Thank you. Have a good day! Tuesday at 1300 hours, I expect you in the auditorium. We wait for the first group to leave the hall, and in a minute we'll invite the second group. [[Vote groups shall be replaced.]] Colleagues, we'll start with the vote. First vote on the Bill amending the Health Act. Please, voting mode. They voted 104 MPs: for 104, against and abstention there is no. By parliamentary groups: GERB Totally voted by the two groups: 125 for, no objection, 69 abstentions. The secretaries? Affirmative. Thank you. The bill was passed at first reading. I now vote on Mrs. Alexandrova's procedural proposal. Under the emergency situation, we had it fixed to 24 hours, now extending it to 48 hours. So it's until Sunday, 6:00 p.m. Please, voting mode. They voted 106 MPs: for 106, against and abstention there is no. By parliamentary groups: GERB The result is 189 for, 3 against, 4 abstentions. Thank you, colleagues. We've run out of agendas for today. The next meeting will be on Tuesday at 1300, with the Committee on Legal Affairs meeting on Monday. Mrs. Alexandrova will inform you about the hour, and on Thursday we will begin regular plenary sessions, and the Conference of Presidents will decide how the registration and voting will be conducted. Thank you. Have a good day! Next emergency session, for which I will release Order Tuesday at 1300 p.m. Due to the exhaustion of the agenda today, I am closing the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]]
