ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the following additional points be included in the weekly Work Programme of the National Assembly: The resignation of the MP from the National Representative Jemma Grozdanova on 15 July 2020, I propose to be the first item in the Programme for today, 16 July 2020. Projects of decisions on changes in the Standing Committees. Mrs. Boryana Georgieva and Mrs. Simeon Naydenov, on 15 July 2020, I propose to be the second item in the Programme for today, 16 July 2020, and the first point of the meeting becomes the third point of the meeting. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration. The representatives of the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria and the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria are representatives of the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria and of the Republic of Bulgaria. Please, voting mode.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u2	It's a counterproposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u3	Cancel the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u4	Thank you, Madam President. My opposite proposal is in the part concerning item three, which you are proposing today.. Bills for amendment and supplement of the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration. We object to this extraordinary way and this haste to bring this bill, which supposedly solves the problem with the conflict of interests of municipal councillors. As early as 17 December 2018, we introduced a much more detailed and more serious bill with the MP then Danail Kirilov. This bill was supported by a large majority of MPs. I do not understand why the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration changes the Law on Countering Corruption! You're probably in a hurry to solve one or two people's problems. If you want, I can call them out to you, but it won't be convenient for the people themselves. [[Voices from GERB: "Eee! "]] So I ask the Members of the National Assembly, by voting separately, that this item be placed on the agenda, to vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Hamid. I will respect your request for a separate vote. First, we vote on the first two points I proposed. Please, voting mode. Vote 185 MPs: 163, against 12, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. Now I am voting and the third point I have proposed to ZPMA, specifying that it has no number, we are simply putting it into the Programme, and then we will decide when it will be, to see how the PID of the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine will go. They voted 188 MPs: 102, against 22, abstention 64. The motion is accepted. Communication concerning a motion to vote distrust of the Council of Ministers: On the basis of art. 89, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 109 of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly 77 MPs from the Parliamentary Group of the BSP for Bulgaria are proposing that the National Assembly vote mistrust of the Council of Ministers with Prime Minister Boyko Borisov because of the failure in the anti-corruption policy. The proposal, together with a motivated draft decision on no-confidence voting of the Council of Ministers, was submitted on 15 July 2020, Wednesday, at 13.40 pm with No 054-02-37 of 15 July 2020. On the same day the materials were distributed by one copy of the parliamentary groups and sent to the MPs in electronic form. Honourable Members, in relation to the tabled by the MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria...................................................................................... 48, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly as follows: The National Assembly shall hold an extraordinary meeting on 20 July 2020, Monday, at 9.00 on the following agenda: Point one. Draft decision to vote distrust of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria with Prime Minister Boyko Borisov because of the failure in anti-corruption policy. Importers suppose Cornelia Ninova and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 15 July 2020 The vote on the Draft Decision shall be no earlier than 24 hours from the conclusion of the deliberations pursuant to art. In the case of the aid, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please, voting mode. Vote 186 MPs: 172 against 8, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the first item on the agenda: TERMINATION OF A PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVE. Application by Jemma Marinova Grozdanova from 24. Mir "Sofia-city." "Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria I am resigning as MP elected in the mandate of the Forty-fourth National Assembly. I would like to be terminated as a Member of the National Assembly with a decision. Mrs. Grozdanova also applies motives. Service: Project! DECISION terminating the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Aborts the authority of Gemma Marinova Grozdanova as MP from the twenty-fourth election district of Sofia. Please, voting mode. Vote 175 MPs: 155, against 10, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. Moving on to point two: PROJECTS OF DECISIONS FOR CHANGES IN STANDING COMMITMENTS. I'll offer you the first one: Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Releases Elena Stefanova Pesheva as a member of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. The representatives of the National Assembly of Boryana Georgieva and Simeon Naydenov. Please, voting mode. Vote 153 MPs: 141, against 2, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. The second draft for a decision by the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Rhodolyptic people. DECISION to complete the composition and management of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Elena Stefanova Pesheva is elected member and chairman of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad. The importers are the same. Please vote. Vote 150 MPs: 128 against 2, abstention 20. The motion is accepted. Moving on to point three: SECOND VOICE OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE PUBLIC PRESENTATION OF THE PRINCIPAL SECURITY. Please welcome the members of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Please come in, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u6	Colleagues, first of all for admission to the Chamber on the basis of art. 49 of our rules, from the Ministry of Finance: Marinella Petrova Deputy Minister; Tsvetanka Mihaylova Director of Directorate, and Hristina Pendicheva State Expert; from the Financial Supervision Commission: Lydia Valchovska Director of Legal Directorate.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u7	Please vote on the procedure so done by the revered Mr. Kanev. [[(Radio.) Replices.)]] They voted 133 MPs: 132, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Mr. Kanev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u8	The Law on the Public Offering of Securities is amended and supplemented by the Law on the Public Offering of Securities. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2, as in para. 1 the words "public offering" shall be replaced by "information." The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 8 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 2: The Commission shall be a competent authority for the implementation of Regulation (EU) 2017/1129. 2. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u9	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for the name of the Law; the text of the importer for § 1; the text of the importer for § 2 with the corresponding replacement; the version of § 3 of the Commission Report and the text of the importer for § 4 and § 5. 110 MPs voted: 110, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u10	According to § 6 there is a proposal from the National Representative Daniela Saveklieva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6: ........................................................... Chapter 6 establishes Section IIa with art. 89a "89sh: "Section II................................................................................................... Approval and publication of a prospectus. Exemptions. Art. 89a. (1) For the purposes of this chapter: 1. A Member State of origin is a concept within the meaning of art. point (m) of Article 2 of Regulation (EU) 2017/1129; 2. In the case referred to in point (a) of paragraph 1, the competent authority of the Member State concerned shall inform the other Member States and the Commission accordingly. point (c) of Article 2 of Regulation (EU) 2017/1129; 3. A host Member State is a concept within the meaning of art. point (d) of Article 2 of Regulation (EU) 2017/1129; 4. "Work days" is a concept within the meaning of art. point (u) of Article 2 of Regulation (EU) 2017/1129; 5. An advertisement message is a concept within the meaning of art. 2 point (d) of Regulation (EU) 2017/1129. (2) This Chapter shall not apply to the types of securities referred to in art. 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) 2017/1129. Art. 89b. (1) Public offering of securities and/or admission of securities to trading on a regulated market shall take place after publication of a prospectus approved by the Commission under the terms and conditions of Regulation (EU) 2017/1129, this Chapter and their implementing acts. (2) The obligation to publish a prospectus when offering public securities under para. 1 shall not apply in the cases referred to in Article 1. 1 paragraph 4 of Regulation (EU) 2017/1129 and in the cases referred to in art. 89c and 89d. (3) The obligation to publish a prospectus when admission of securities to trading on a regulated market shall not apply in the cases referred to in art. 1 (5) of Regulation (EU) 2017/1129. (4) Where the public offering of securities is carried out without publication of a prospectus under para. 1 or document under art. 89c, para. 1 or art. 89d, para. 1 as well as when material information in the prospectus under para. 1 in the document referred to in Article 1. 89c, para. 1 or under art. 89d, para. 1 is incorrect or is concealed, the investor within three months of the establishment of the relevant circumstance, but no later than one year after the conclusion of the public offering, may request the recording or sale of the securities to be declared invalid unless it has been untrue. Art. 89c. (1) When carrying out public offering of securities in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, with a total value calculated over a period of 12 months, less than the equivalent of 3 000 000 euros, for which the exceptions under art. 1 paragraph 4 of Regulation (EU) 2017/1129 and where securities are requested to be admitted to trading of a multilateral trading system, the issuer or offeror shall draw up a document in accordance with the rules of the multilateral trading system and publish it on its website. The document drawn up under the rules of the multilateral trading system shall not contain false, misleading or incomplete data. (2) The operator of the multilateral trading system shall provide the document under para. 1 of the Commission no later than 5 working days before admission of securities to trading. (3) The members of the management body of the issuer and its prosecutor or proposer, as well as the person guaranteeing the securities, where applicable, shall be responsible jointly for the damage caused by false, misleading or incomplete data in the document under para. 1. The persons referred to in art. 18 of the Accounting Act respond jointly to the persons referred to in the first sentence for damages caused by false, misleading or incomplete data in the issuer's financial statements. When in the document under para. 1 is included information from audited financial statements, the registered auditor who audited them is responsible jointly with the persons in sentences first and second for the damage caused by the financial statements audited by him. (4) The Commission shall not be responsible for the correctness of those contained in the document under para. 1 data. (5) In the event of the occurrence, respectively the knowledge of a material new circumstance, error or inaccuracies relating to the document contained in para. 1 information that may affect the valuation of the securities within the period of the signature, issuer or offeror shall supplement the information in the document under para. 1 and discloses the changes on its website. (6) Persons who have recorded securities shall deposit the amounts in a special account designated by the issuer. The amounts of this account may not be used before the signature is completed and the increase of capital in the commercial register is recorded. (7) When the petition is completed unsuccessfully without fulfilling the provisions of the document under para. 1 conditions, within one month of the completion of the signature, the issuer shall return the amounts raised to the persons who have recorded the securities together with those charged by the bank under para. Six interest rates. The issuer or offeror shall publish on its website where the securities are offered by it, an invitation to the persons who have recorded the securities in which it announces the terms and conditions for the refund of the amounts collected and sends it to the investment firms involved in the offering. Investment firms participating in the offering shall immediately after receipt of the invitation publish it on their websites. Art. 89. (1) When carrying out public offering of securities in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria with a total value calculated over a period of 12 months less than the equivalent of 3 000 000 euros, for which the exceptions under art. 1 paragraph 4 of Regulation (EU) 2017/1129 and where no admission to trading is requested for securities on a regulated market or on a multilateral trading system, the issuer or offeror shall draw up and publish a public offering document. The public supply document shall not contain false, misleading or incomplete data. (2) The public offering document shall contain at least: 1. information on the issuer, including an up-to-date e-mail address for correspondence, the offeror, the guarantor and the scope and type of the guarantee, where applicable; 2. information on key facts and key risks for the issuer and issue; 3. information on the terms of the offer, including the duration of the subscription and the consequences of failure to complete the signature; 4. information on the issue, including size, type of securities, rights and obligations, issue and nominal value of the securities, applicable costs to investors; 5. warnings to investors, including a warning that securities will not be required to be admitted to trading on a regulated market or on a multilateral trading system, that the issue of securities is not subject to entry in the register under art. 30, para. 1, t. 3 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act and that the issuer does not have any obligation to subsequently disclose information under that law; 6. a statement that the information in the public offering document is up-to-date; 7. date and period of validity of the public offering document; 8. a statement that the Commission does not approve the public offering document and is not responsible for the correctness of the data contained therein; 9. Declaration by the persons under para. 1 that, to the extent that they know the information contained in the public offering document is consistent with the facts and that there are no deficiencies that may affect its meaning; 10. a message indicating where the last annual financial statement adopted pursuant to the applicable accounting standards and the company's statutes are available on the issuer's website; 11. References to sources of information. (3) Before publication, the public offering document shall be made available to the Commission. (4) The Commission may, within 10 working days of the submission of the public offering document, require supplementing and/or correcting the information by setting a time limit which may not be shorter than 5 working days and longer than 14 working days. (5) The issuer or proposer shall publish the public offering document on its website after the expiry of 10 working days of its submission to the Commission and, where the committee has requested the addition and/or correction of the information in the document..... after 10 working days after the submission of the supplemented and/or corrected information. (6) The date of publication of the website of the issuer or proposer of the public offering document shall be considered as the beginning of the public offering. (7) The public offering document shall be signed by the issuer or offeror and by the person guaranteeing the securities, where applicable, who shall declare that the document complies with the requirements of para. 2. (8) The members of the management body of the issuer and its prosecutor or proposer and the person guaranteeing the securities, where applicable, shall be responsible jointly for the damage caused by false, misleading or incomplete data in the public offering document. The persons referred to in art. 18 of the Accounting Act respond jointly to the persons referred to in the first sentence for damages caused by false, misleading or incomplete data in the issuer's financial statements. Where information from audited financial statements is included in the public offering document, the registered auditor who audited them shall be responsible jointly with the persons in sentences first and second for the damage caused by the financial statements audited by him. (9) The Commission shall not be responsible for the correctness of the data contained in the public supply document. (10) The issuer or offeror may extend the time limit of the signature of the public offering by up to 20 days once by submitting the relevant amendments to the public offering document. In this case, the last day of the extended period shall be considered as the deadline of the signature. (11) The issuer or offeror shall immediately publish information on the extension of the period under para. 10 on your website. (12) In the event of the occurrence of a material new circumstance, error or inaccuracies related to the information contained in the public offering document which may affect the valuation of securities within the time period of the signature, issuer or offeror shall supplement the information contained in the public offering document and disclose the changes on its website. (13) Persons who have recorded securities shall deposit the amounts in a special account designated by the issuer. The amounts of this account may not be used until the signature has been completed. (14) When the signature fails to be completed without fulfilling the conditions laid down in the public offering document, the issuer shall, within one month of the completion of the signature, return the amounts collected to the persons who have recorded the securities together with those charged by the bank under para. 13 interest rates. The issuer or offeror shall publish on its website an invitation to the persons who have recorded the securities in which it announces the terms and conditions for the refund of the amounts collected. Art. 89e. (1) The scope shall be drawn up and published in accordance with the requirements of Regulation (EU) 2017/1129, this Chapter and their implementing acts. The prospect may not contain false, misleading or incomplete data. (2) The outlook shall be signed by the issuer or offeror or by the person requesting admission of the securities to trading on a regulated market and by the person guaranteeing the securities, where applicable, who declares that the prospectus complies with the requirements of Regulation (EU) 2017/1129, that Chapter and the implementing acts. (3) The members of the management body of the issuer and its prosecutor, or the proposer, the person requesting admission of the securities to trading on a regulated market, and the person guaranteeing the securities, where applicable, are responsible jointly for the damage caused by false, misleading or incomplete data in the prospectus. The persons referred to in art. 18 of the Accounting Act jointly respond to the persons referred to in the first sentence for damages caused by false, misleading or incomplete data in the issuer's financial statements, and the registered auditor is responsible for the damage caused by the financial statements audited by him.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u11	(4) Responsibility under para. 3 shall not occur only on the basis of the summary of the prospectus or the specific summary of the EU Growth prospectus, including its translation, unless the information contained therein is misleading, false or contrary to other parts of the prospectus or the summary read with other parts of the prospectus does not provide the essential information necessary for investors to decide whether to invest in such securities. The summary of the prospectus or the specific summary of the EU Growth prospectus shall contain a clear warning of the circumstances referred to in the first sentence. (5) Where the registration document or universal registration document is part of an approved prospectus, the responsibility for the information disclosed therein shall be borne by the persons under para. 3. (6) The prospectus shall indicate the names and positions, respectively the name, seat and address of the management, of the persons referred to in para. 3 declaring that, to the best of their knowledge, the information contained in the prospectus is correct and complete. Art. 89f. (1) The issuer, offeror or person requesting admission of securities to trading on a regulated market may draw up a prospectus on a voluntary basis in the cases under art. 1 paragraph 3 of Regulation (EU) 2017/1129 or where, pursuant to that Regulation and that Chapter, there is no obligation to publish a prospectus. (2) For the prospectus under para. 1 shall apply the prospectus requirements of Regulation (EU) 2017/1129, this Chapter and their implementing acts. Art. 89g. In the case of public offering or admission to trading on a regulated market of non-equity securities, the issuer, offeror or person requesting their admission to trading on a regulated market may draw up a base prospectus as required by art. 8 of Regulation (EU) 2017/1129. Art. 89z. Persons meeting the requirements of art. 15 (1) of Regulation (EU) 2017/1129 may draw up an EU Growth prospectus in accordance with the requirements of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2019/980 of 14 March 2019 supplementing Regulation (EU) 2017/1129 of the European Parliament and of the Council with regard to the format, content, verification and approval of the prospectus to be published on the public offering of securities or on their admission to trading on a regulated market and repealing Commission Regulation (EC) No 809/2004 (OB, L 166/26 of 21 June 2019.). Art. 89th. (1) Where information on the final issue or sale price and/or the final number of publicly offered securities cannot be included in the prospectus, art. 17 of Regulation (EU) 2017/1129. (2) The issuer, offeror or person requesting admission of securities to trading on a regulated market shall immediately inform the Commission of the final price and the final number of publicly offered securities and shall publish this information under art. 21 of Regulation (EU) 2017/1129. Art. 89k. (1) A signature may also be carried out on a regulated market where its terms provide for the issue value of the securities to be paid in full. (2) Signature of shares in the cases under para. 1 is only possible when the period under art. 194, para. 3 of the Commercial Law. Art. 89l. (1) Where the issuer or offeror carries out a petition for the public offering of securities under art. 89e, it may extend its period once by up to 60 days by submitting the relevant amendments to the prospectus and notifying the Commission. In this case, the last day of the extended period shall be considered as the deadline of the signature. (2) The issuer or proposer shall immediately publish information on the extension of the period under para. 1 on its website where the securities are offered by it and informs the Commission and investment firms involved in the offering of the extension of the deadline. Investment firms participating in the supply shall immediately announce on their websites the extension of the period under para. 1. (3) The issuer or proposer shall notify the Commission of the result of the signature within 7 days of its deadline. (4) No subscription of securities before the start and after the deadline of the subscription shall be allowed. Art. Ninety-nine meters. (1) Persons who have recorded securities in the public offering of securities under art. 89e, they shall deposit the amounts in a special account designated by the issuer. Where the issuer is a bank, that account shall be opened in another bank. (2) The amounts of this account may not be used prior to the completion of the subscription and the entry of the capital increase in the commercial register. (3) When the petition is closed unsuccessfully without fulfilling the conditions laid down in the prospectus, or the commercial register shall not include the capital increase, within one month of the notification under art. 89l, para. 3 the amounts raised shall be returned to the persons who have recorded the securities, together with those charged by the bank under para. 1 interest. (4) In the cases under para. 3 the issuer or offeror on the day of the notification under art. 89l, para. 3 informs the bank of the outcome of the subscription, publishes on its website where the securities are offered by it, an invitation to the persons who have recorded the securities in which it announces the terms and conditions for the refund of the amounts collected, and sends it to the investment firms involved in the offering. Investment firms participating in the offer shall immediately after receipt of the invitation publish it on their websites. Art. 89n. (1) The language adopted by the Committee on Art. 27 of Regulation (EU) 2017/1129 is the Bulgarian language. (2) Where the Republic of Bulgaria is a host Member State, for the purposes of art. 27, par. 3, para. 2 of Regulation 2017/1129, the summary of the prospectus may be made available to the public in Bulgarian or in a language which is common in the field of international finance. Art. 89o. For admission of securities to trading on a trading venue, the issuer shall have an identification code of the legal entity. Art. 89p. (1) The issuer, offeror or person requesting admission of securities to trading on a regulated market shall submit to the Commission an application for approval of a prospectus for public offering and/or admission to trading on a regulated market by applying: 1. the prospectus; 2. the statutes of the issuer; 3. the last annual financial statement of the issuer audited by a registered auditor; 4. other documents defined by a regulation. (2) The requirement to present the documents under para. 1, t. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. (3) The Commission shall verify and approve by written reasoned decision the prospectus under the terms and conditions of art. 20 of Regulation (EU) 2017/1129. (4) When in the course of the verification under para. 3 - Message under art. Article 20 (4) (a) of Regulation (EU) 2017/1129 shall not be accepted at the correspondence address indicated by the applicant, the time limit for submitting additional information and/or changes to the draft prospectus shall run from the publication of the communication on the committee's website. The publication shall be certified by a protocol drawn up by officials appointed by order of the President of the Commission. (5) In the cases referred to in art. Article 20 (4) of Regulation (EU) 2017/1129 shall not apply. 7, para. 1 of the Law on limitation of administrative regulation and administrative control of business. Art. 89p. (1) The Commission shall refuse approval of a prospectus under art. 20 (1) of Regulation (EU) 2017/1129 by written reasoned decision where: 1. the prospectus does not meet the requirements of Regulation (EU) 2017/1129, this Chapter and/or the implementing acts; 2. the issue value of the shares is lower than the book value of a share before the capital increase calculated at the time of the decision to increase the capital and thus affect the interests of the shareholders; 3. due to the special rights envisaged by the shares or for other reason the interests of investors are not provided. (2) The Commission may refuse approval of a prospectus by written reasoned decision where the applicant has not removed the discrepancies or has not submitted the requested information and/or documents within the period specified by it which may not be less than one month. (3) The Commission shall not be responsible for the correctness of the data contained in the prospectus. (4) The commercial register shall include the capital increase carried out under the conditions of the initial public offering, after the approval of the prospectus issued by the Commission is also submitted to the Commission, except where there is no obligation to publish a prospectus. Art. 89c. (1) Within the period from the submission of an application for the approval of a prospectus until a decision has been taken by the Commission, the issuer, the offeror or the person requesting admission to trading on a regulated market shall be required within three working days of the entry into force of the prospectus, respectively, of changes imposing amendments to the prospectus, to notify the Commission of such changes and to submit relevant amendments to the prospectus. (2) Upon the occurrence, respectively, of a material new circumstance, error or inaccuracies relating to the information contained in the prospectus which may affect the valuation of the securities during the period from the issue of approval of the prospectus until the expiry of the deadline of the public offering or the start of trade on a regulated market, art. 23 (1) of Regulation (EU) 2017/1129. (3) In the cases under para. 2 The Commission shall refuse to approve the supplement to the prospectus where the requirements of Regulation (EU) 2017/1129 are not complied with, this Chapter and/or the implementing acts. (4) The withdrawal of consents within the meaning of art. The first sentence of paragraph 2 of Regulation (EU) 2017/1129 shall be made by written declaration at the place where the securities were recorded, respectively purchased. (5) The issuer, offeror or person requesting admission of securities to trading on a regulated market shall be liable jointly for the damage caused by the failure to comply with the obligations under para. Art. 1 and 2 and art. 23 (2) of Regulation (EU) 2017/1129. Art. 89. (1) In the case of public offering of securities under art. 89e, the issuer or offeror shall publish a communication on the offer, indicating the initial and the deadline of the signature, respectively the initial and the deadline of the sale, the number of the decision of the committee to approve the prospectus, the place, the time and the way to get acquainted with the prospectus. The communication shall be sent to investment firms involved in the supply. (2) The message under para. 1 shall be published on the issuer's or offeror's website where the securities are offered by it and the investment firms involved in the offering at least 7 days before the start of the subscription period or the start of the sale. (3) The date of publication of the message under para. 1 shall be considered as the beginning of the public offering. (4) The date indicated in the communication under para. 1 on which the issuer's securities may be recorded or purchased at the earliest, shall be considered as the beginning of the subscription or sale. Art. Eighty-niney-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty. (1) The (2) The registration document, the Appendix to the prospectus under art. 23 (1) of Regulation (EU) 2017/1129 together with the securities document and the summary thereof shall be considered a valid prospectus. Art. 89f. In exercising its powers under Regulation (EU) 2017/1129, this Chapter and/or their implementing acts shall cooperate with the authorities referred to in Article 1. 33, par. 1, para. 1 of Regulation (EU) 2017/1129, including where one or more of them wants to temporarily or permanently suspend trade in certain securities traded in different Member States in order to ensure a level playing field between trading venues and investor protection. Art. 89x. (1) In order to ensure compliance with the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2017/1129, this Chapter and/or the implementing acts thereof, the Commission may: 1. require issuers, offerors or persons requesting admission of securities to trading on a regulated market to include additional information in the prospectus if necessary in order to protect investors; 2. require issuers, offerors or persons requesting admission of securities to trading on a regulated market, as well as persons controlling or controlling them, to provide information and documents; 3. require auditors, members of management and control bodies and prosecutors of issuers, offerers or persons requesting admission of securities to trading on a regulated market, as well as investment firms authorised to carry out the public offering of securities or to request their admission to trading on a regulated market, to provide information; 4. inform the public that a particular issuer, offeror or person requesting admission of securities to trading on a regulated market does not fulfil its obligations under Regulation (EU) 2017/1129, that Chapter and/or the implementing acts; 5. suspend the verification of an application for approval of a prospectus where the Commission has imposed a prohibition or restriction under art. 42 of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on markets in financial instruments and amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 (OB, L 173/84 of 12 June 2014)), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) No 600/2014', until the ban or restriction has been lifted; 6. disclose all relevant information which may have an impact on the assessment of publicly proposed or admitted to trading on a regulated market securities in order to ensure investor protection or the smooth functioning of the market; 7. refuse approval of a prospectus drawn up by a particular issuer, offeror or person requesting admission of securities to trading on a regulated market for no more than 5 years where such an issuer, offeror or person requesting admission of securities to trading on a regulated market has rudely and systematically violated the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2017/1129, that Chapter and/or the implementing acts. (2) A person who provides information to the Commission in accordance with Regulation (EU) 2017/1129, this Chapter and/or their implementing acts shall not infringe the restrictions on disclosure of information imposed under a contract or regulatory act and shall not be liable of any nature in relation to the information provided. Art. Eighty-nine. In cases referred to in art. The Commission shall take appropriate measures under Article 37 (2) of Regulation (EU) 2017/1129. 89x and/or art. 212a1 for investor protection and informs the European Commission and ESMA. Art. Eighty-nine o'clock. (1) Persons operating in the field of financial services shall establish and implement appropriate internal procedures in order to enable their employees to submit reports of infringements under a special, independent and independent communication channel for the acceptance of reports of infringements committed or for the existence of reasonable suspicions of infringements of Regulation (EU) 2017/1129, this Chapter and/or their implementing acts. (2) Persons working in the employment relationship who have submitted a notice of infringement or against whom a notice of infringement has been filed shall be entitled to protection against disciplinary dismissal in accordance with art. 187, para. 2 of the Labour Code. (3) With the rules of the Committee on Art. 13, para. 1, t. 1 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act lays down procedures for handling reports of infringements which include: 1. the requirements of the communication channel for receiving reports of infringements; 2. the possibility of anonymous submission of reports of infringements; 3. the order to examine the reports of infringements; 4. the type, content and timing of feedback on the results of the infringement message which a person who has submitted a message may expect after the notification; 5. the confidentiality regime applicable to reports of infringements, including a description of the circumstances under which the data of the persons under art. Article 41 (2) (c) of Regulation (EU) 2017/1129 may be disclosed. Art. 89j. (1) The Commission may lay down, by way of a regulation, additional requirements relating to the application of this Chapter. (2) The provisions of the Commercial Law shall apply to those outstanding by Regulation (EU) 2017/1129. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7. Under § 8 there is a proposal from the National Representative Daniela Saveklieva, made in accordance with Article 8. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 100a The following amendments 1. In para. 1 in a sentence first after the word "obligations', a comma shall be added, for which there is an obligation to publish a statement, and in a sentence second, the words "supplied' not under the terms of public offering shall be replaced by "supplied' for which there is no obligation to publish a prospectus under art. 89b, para. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Authority') and in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') published in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') and in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union (hereinafter "the 2. In para. 3 in the sentence second, the words "supplied' shall not be replaced by "supplied' for the supply of which there is no obligation to publish a prospectus under art. 89b, para. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Authority') and in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union (hereinafter 3. In para. 9 words.............................................................................. 204, para. 3 of the Commercial Law........................................................................................................ 100b, para. The The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 100b the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 in the text before t. 1 after the words the bond is a comma and the amount referred to in Article 1 shall be added. 89c and 89d (d), the words proposed not under the terms of a public offering shall be replaced by the terms for the supply of which there is no obligation to publish a prospectus under art. 89b, para. 2 " and after the words'"supposed to contain', "supplied' shall be added. 2. In para. 4 A sentence third is created: "Inadmissible is the reverse effect of the changes under para. 1, t. 4. 3. In para. 6 after the words "besides those under para. 1, t. A comma shall be placed and the opposite effect of the changes under para 4 shall be added. 1, t. The following points are inserted after point 4 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011: The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 100d the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 3: (a) A new item shall be created. 2: "2." which are a bonding agent and hold more than 20 per cent of the same bonding issue; b) Previous t. 2 " 4" becomes ct, respectively. 3... 5........................................................................... 2. In para. The fourth sentence is amended as follows: The termination of the contract with the trustee of the bondholders is carried out at the same time as the conclusion of a contract between the issuer and the new trustee of the bondholders. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In Chapter 6, Section V is created art. 100i1: Art. One hundred and one. From the admission of bonds to trading on a regulated market to issuers under this section, the provisions of Chapter 6 The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u12	Colleagues, speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of Paragraph 6 of the Commission Report; the text of the importer for Paragraph 7; the version of Paragraph 8 of the Commission Report; the version of paragraphs 9 and 10 of the Commission Report; the text of the importer for paragraphs 11 and 12; the version of Paragraph 13 of the Commission Report and the text of the importer for paragraphs 14, 15 and 16. Vote 77 MPs: for 77, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u13	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 17: Seventeen. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 in the text before t. 1 the words "100n" and "100o" are replaced by "100n," 100o and 100o1." 2. In para. The words "100n" and "100o" shall be replaced by "100n," 100o and 100o1." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 21: .................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 110 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: A public limited liability company with its registered office in the Republic of Bulgaria is: 1. whose shares are entered in the register under art. 30, para. 1, t. 3 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act for the purpose of trading on a regulated market and are admitted to trading on a regulated market, or 2. which has more than 10,000 shareholders on the last day of two consecutive calendar years. 2. Alinei 3 s 7 are amended as follows: A company which has issued shares under the conditions of a primary public offering for trading on a regulated market shall be obliged within 7 days from its entry in the trade register or from the entry of the increase in its capital in the trade register to declare for entry the issue shares in the register under art. 30, para. 1, t. 3 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act for the purpose of trading on a regulated market. (4) Outside the cases under para. 3 companies under para. 1, t. 1 shall be entered in the register referred to in Article 1. 30, para. 1, t. 3 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act at the same time as the approval of the prospectus for admission to trading on a regulated market of the issue shares. (5) The Commission shall immediately inform the company under para. 1, t. 1 for its entry in the register under art. 30, para. 1, t. 3 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act. (6) Company which has issued shares under the conditions of primary public offering for trading on a regulated market, within two working days of the entry of the issue shares in the register under art. 30, para. 1, t. 3 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act applies to the regulated market for admission of shares to trading. The terms and conditions of admission shall be determined by the rules of the regulated market. (7) The Commercial Register shall record that the company under para. 1, t. 1 is public. The Society under para. 1, t. 1 states for entry into the trade register this circumstance within 7 days of admission of shares to trading on a regulated market.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u14	Hey, guys, any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the version proposed by the Commission for § 17; the texts of the importer for paragraphs 18, 19 and 20; and the version proposed for § 21. 88 MPs voted: 84, none, abstention 4. The proposed texts have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u15	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 112b The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2 in the sentence first, the words. "14 days after the date of the decision of the General Assembly on capital increase, and when that decision is taken by the Management Authority, the persons who acquired shares at the latest 7 days shall be replaced by 92a, para. 1s are replaced by. under art. 89th, para. In the second sentence, the word "tri" is replaced by "two" and the words "the 14-day term," respectively, by the 7-day term "the deadline" are replaced by "the deadline." 2. In para. 3 the words................................................................................................... 1 and when the decision on capital increase has been taken by the management body 92a, para. 1s are replaced by. under art. 89th, para. 1.................................................................................. 3. In para. 4 the words "14 days and longer than 30 days' shall be replaced by "5 working days'. 4. In para. The fifth sentence is first deleted and in the third sentence the number 5. In para. 7 in the sentence first, the word "Petas' is replaced by "the second' and the second sentence is deleted. 6. In para. The second sentence is created: The Central Depository of Securities distributes the amount received from the sale of the non-exercised rights, reduced by the cost of the sale, proportionately among their holders. 7. In para. 13 the words The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 23. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 24. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 25, as in para. 1 the word "may" is replaced by "may" and the word "suchbina" is replaced by "other state." The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 26: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 116c the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2 after the words "selection" shall be a comma, added by the entry of the company in the register under art. 30, para. 1, t. 3 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act and a comma is placed. 2. In para. 3 is created sentence three: "When the General Assembly has determined the amount of remuneration under para. 1 but has not determined the amount of the management guarantee, its amount shall be deemed to be equal to the three-month gross remuneration of the persons under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 3. A new para is being created. 7. In the event of a change in the amount of remuneration of the persons under para. 1 The guarantee shall be updated as para. 2, 5 and 6 shall apply respectively. 4. Previously on AMC's... 7 and 8 become respectively. Eight and nine. 5. So far, the Al. 9 becomes para. 10 and in that sentence, in the first sentence, the words The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 27: "The Bible says: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 119 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. the fourth sentence is replaced by the following: 2. A new para is being created. 5? 7: On the basis of the documents submitted, the Commission shall establish whether the requirements for write-off of the company are met from the register under art. 30, para. 1, t. 3 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act. Where the data and documents submitted are incomplete or irregular or additional information or evidence of the accuracy of the data is required, the Commission shall send a message of findings of incompleteness and inconsistencies and/or of the requested additional information and documents within 10 working days of receipt of the application. (6) When the message under para. 5 shall not be accepted at the correspondence address indicated by the applicant, the time limit for their submission shall run from the publication of the communication on the Commission's website. The publication shall be certified by a protocol drawn up by officials appointed by order of the President of the Commission. (7) The Commission shall decide on the application and inform the applicant within 10 working days of receipt of the application and, where additional information and documents have been requested or submitted at the initiative of the applicant, additional information and documents 3. Previously on AMC's... 5 " 8" becomes respectively. 8.. 11............ 11.................................. The Commission proposes to create a new § 28: ....... 28........................................... 28 In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 120a, para. The first sentence shall be inserted after the words "in origin'. 100k, para. 2, p. 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's and 1's, The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 28, which shall become § 29.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u16	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 22; the text of the importer for § 23 and 24; the text of the importer for § 25 with the proposals for replacement made by the Commission; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 26; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 27; the proposal of the Commission for the creation of a new § 28 and the text of the importer for § 28, which becomes 29. 86 MPs voted: 85, none, abstention 1. The proposed texts have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u17	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 29, which shall become § 30: 30. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 127 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: (1) The issue and disposal of non-available equity securities issued by companies having its registered office in the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as non-personal non-equity securities and shares of collective investment undertakings issued under the legislation of the Republic of Bulgaria, shall have effect from their registration in the central securities register. 2. In para. 2 words "When securities are replaced by "When financial instruments" and the words "the securities deal" shall be replaced by "the financial instruments deal." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 30, which shall become § 31. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 31, which shall become § 32: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 139 para. 2 is amended as This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.) (see Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009). The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 32, which shall become § 33. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 33, which shall become § 34. The Commission proposes to create a new § 35: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 148d The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 3 after the words the Host State shall be added within the meaning of art. 100k, para. 2, p. The word "public company" is replaced by "public company" and after the words "in origin" is added to "in the sense of art." 100k, para. 2, p. 1.................................................................................. 2. In para. 4 the word "supplier" shall be replaced by the public company and everywhere after the words "supplier" shall be added within the meaning of art. 100k, para. 2, p. ............................................................................................................ The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 34, which shall become § 36: ................................ 36.................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 148f, t. 1 words.............................................................................. 77sh, para. 1, t. 8 and 9 100k, para. 2, p. 6 and 7 The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 35, which shall become § 37.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u18	Thank you. Let's stop here, Mr. Kanev. It's eight texts. Are there any speeches, colleagues? I won't. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 29, which shall become § 30; the text of the importer for § 30, which shall be § 31; the version proposed by the Commission for § 31, which shall become § 32; the text of the importer for paragraphs 32 and 33, which shall become paragraphs 33 and 34 respectively; the application of the Commission to create a new § 35 with a text under the Commission Report; the version proposed by the Commission for § 34 which shall be § 36; and the text of the importer for § 35, which shall become § 37. Vote 94 MPs: for 93, against no, abstention 1. The proposed texts have been adopted. Declaration on behalf of the parliamentary group Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u19	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Yesterday I did not react in the hall of grave insults, which allowed a colleague of ours to address to all those who are learning, teaching at the University of Sofia, calling this sacred place where liars are trained. Now I'm sorry about this thing, because I saw it was contagious and a little later in a speech of its own, the President of the Republic, the figure in the republic...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u20	Make a note of it!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u21	I'll make it. Hold on.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u22	...do the next thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u23	How can he talk about the president?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u24	If you wait a little while and don't call, you will immediately understand why and how.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u25	We won't know...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u26	Here's what you'll find out. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u27	Mr. Mareshki, really, avoid such qualifications.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u28	The President of Bulgaria took the liberty of insulting the hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens who were at the protests when they had to overthrow the communist power in Bulgaria, calling them goons. The mothers and fathers of those who are today in the squares of that time were called goons, quoting verbatim: The march began with the goons and will end with their eviction from power. How exactly did the changes in Bulgaria start with goons, Mr. President? Now I hope you've already answered the question why do I call it that? The current 50-year-olds were 20 years old, and like today's youngsters, so were we in the squares. The foundations of democracy laid the awake Bulgarian students, personalities prominent anti-communists such as Zhelyo Zhelev and Petar Dertliev, Ekoglostvostvo, the dissidents of the Committee for the Protection of Ruse and many other hundreds of thousands, millions of honourable Bulgarians. They were the first defenders of democracy and called for changes in Bulgaria. Do you call them goons, President Radev? I have to remind the Head of State of an uncomfortable fact. Those goons he spoke of were planned, created and carefully raised in the mid-1990s when he ruled the BSP, the BCP, the party that raised him and elected him president. I know that in colleagues on the left, in this room, these truths cause shame and inconvenience, but history is history, it is made up of irresistible facts, and when someone tries to change into new clothes, we have to remind him of the dirty rags that can't be hidden. On behalf of my generation and all those who were in the barricades at the beginning of the transition, I absolutely do not accept Radev's words that these were goons. I demand that the President apologize to all Bulgarian dissidents, to all democratic thinking people who have been fighting for justice and integrity in this country since the beginning of the transition. Yesterday we witnessed once again the Head of State split our society. If it's led by the maxim divide and conquer, I'll tell him right now that it won't work. People should not be underestimated and considered so stupid, naive, and demented that they do not remember how it appeared and how it survived over the years the phenomenon of goons. Old DS, former communists, new socialists, all sorts of patronizings and taking advantage of their outrage for personal and party benefit. The insulting notions that these people are the mothers and fathers of the present protesters, the people who protested in the '90s, are goons paid for in the squares and manipulated to be the slime of society and give away arrogance, political powerlessness and the intrigues of the behind-the-scenes lies, slanders and sowing of corruption. I am disgusted by the attempts to distort our newest history and to insult a whole society of Bulgarians. An apology to the people and resignation is the right move for the President in this situation, or to be silent, because with each exit, the presidential institution is further humiliated. My fellow Members, I call you to reason, humility, unity, to create conditions for dealing with the severe economic consequences of the pandemic, which is going on anyway. I call for a transition team to be united to bring together as many people from Bulgaria, professionals, pragmatists, patriots to help bring Bulgaria out of the crisis, to organise fair parliamentary elections and as our people have arranged! [[Applause from the Bulgarian Rhodolyptic people, GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u29	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. Moving on, dear Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u30	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 36, which shall become § 38: ....................... 38........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 212, para. 1 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In the text before t. 1 the following shall be inserted after the words "this law': "with the exception of Regulation (EU) 2017/1129, Chapter 6 and their implementing acts'. 2. Points 5 and 9 are repealed. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 37, which shall become § 39: .............................................................................. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 212a1: Art. 212a (1) In order to ensure compliance with the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2017/1129, Chapter 6 and the implementing acts thereof, the Commission may: 1. suspend a temporary public offering or admission of securities to trading on a regulated market for not more than 10 consecutive working days on a case-by-case basis if there is sufficient reason to believe that the relevant provisions of Regulation (EU) 2017/1129, Chapter 6 and/or the implementing acts have been infringed; 2. prohibit or suspend advertising communications or require issuers, offerors or persons requesting admission of securities to trading on a regulated market or investment firms concerned to suspend or suspend advertising communications for no more than 10 consecutive working days on a case-by-case basis if there are sufficient grounds to believe that the relevant provisions of Regulation (EU) 2017/1129, Chapter 6 and/or their implementing acts have been infringed; 3. prohibit the carrying out of public offering or admission of securities to trading on a regulated market where it finds that there is a breach of the relevant provisions of Regulation (EU) 2017/1129, Chapter 6a and/or their implementing acts, or if there is sufficient reason to believe that their provisions will be infringed; 4. suspend or require the relevant regulated markets, multilateral trading systems or organised trading systems to stop trading on the regulated market, multilateral trading system or organised trading system for no more than 10 consecutive working days on a case-by-case basis if there are sufficient grounds to believe that the relevant provisions of Regulation (EU) 2017/1129, Chapter 6 and/or their implementing acts have been infringed; 5. prohibit trading on a regulated market, a multilateral trading system or an organised trading system where it finds that there is a breach of the relevant provisions of Regulation (EU) 2017/1129, Chapter 6 and/or the implementing acts thereof; 6. suspend or require the relevant regulated markets, multilateral trading systems or organised trading systems to stop the trading of securities where it considers that the issuer's situation is such that trade would harm investors' interests; 7. suspend or limit the public offering or admission of securities to trading on a regulated market in cases where the Commission has imposed a ban or restriction under art. 42 of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 until the prohibition or restriction has been lifted; 8. require issuers to disclose all relevant information that may have an impact on the assessment of publicly proposed or admitted to trading on a regulated market in order to ensure investor protection or the smooth functioning of the market; 9. suspend the public offering or trading of the securities when it refuses to approve an addition to a prospectus in the cases referred to in art. 89c, para. 3. (2) Where the Commission finds that a person has committed a breach of Regulation (EU) 2017/1129, Chapter 6 and/or the implementing acts thereof, and where the control activities of the Commission are prevented, the Commission may oblige the person to take specific measures necessary to prevent and/or remedy the infringement, the harmful effects thereof or the risk to investors' interests within a period specified by it. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 38, which shall become § 40. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 39, which shall become § 41: ............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 213, para. 4 in a sentence first, the words "art." 212, para. 1, t. Art. 2, Art. 10, Art. 212a, para. 2, p. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 212, para. 1, t. 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8 and 10, art. 212a, para. 2, p. Art. 2 and Art. 2 212 a1 a and in a sentence a second after the words...................................................................................................... 2, p. Article 2 is replaced by the following: 212a1
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u31	Let's stop here at §40. Are there any speeches, colleagues? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the texts of § 36, which shall become § 38 and § 37, which shall become § 39; the text of the importer for § 38 shall become § 40, and the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 39, which shall become § 41. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. The proposed texts have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u32	According to § 40, there is a proposal from the MP Daniela Saveklieva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 40, which shall become § 42: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 221 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 2 words.............................................................................. 81, para. Art. 1, art. 84, para. Art. 2, 3 and 4, Art. 85, para. Art. 5, art. 86, para. Art. 2 and 3, Art. 89, para. Art. 3, Art. 92a, para. 2, 5, 6 and para. 7th sentence first, Art. 92d, para. 1, 3 and 4 and shall be replaced by the following: In the case of the measure in question, the Commission has to assess whether the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. Art. 2, 3 and 4, Art. 89k, para. Art. 3, Art. Art. 89m, Art. 89c, para. Art. 1 and 2, Art. 89th, para. 1 and 2................................................................................................ In the case of the aid, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 6th sentence, second and second. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. In the case of the aid, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 6, para. 7th sentence, second and second. 9................................................................................................. 116c, para. One, two, four, five and six shall be replaced by one. 116c, para. 1.. (b) c. 3 words.............................................................................. 80, para. Art. 1 and 3, Art. 85, para. Art. 1 and 2, Art. 89, para. 1 sentence two, and para. Art. 2 and 4, Art. 92a, para. 7th sentence, second and second. Art. 8, Art. 92c, para. 2 and 5 and 5 shall be replaced by.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Art. 89c, Art. 89d, para. Art. 1, 3 and 5, Art. Art. 89h, Art. 89k, para. 1 sentence, 2nd, para. Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 establishing a common organisation of the markets in agricultural products and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1290/2005 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 965). 89q, para. 1 and 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. A comma shall be added to the 100o1o2 comma and then added to the list. 100sh, para. 4................................................................................................. 116b " and the comma after them are deleted, the words "art." 119, para. 6 sentence two, para. 7 and 8' are replaced by. 119, para. 9 sentence two, para. 10 and 11 and the words............................................................................................... 141, para. 1 and 2sssssssssssssss. (c) c. 4 the words "Art. 78, para. Art. 1, 2 and 3, Art. 79, para. 2, Art.s. (c) shall be deleted and after the words "Art." 115, para. A comma shall be placed and added to the list. 116b (d) shall be established. 6: It's six. art. Art. 3, 5 and 6, Art. Article 7 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 8, 9 and 10, Art. Article 11 (1) and (3) Article 14 (1) and (2) Art. 15, par. 1, art. Art. 16 (1), (2) and (3) Art. 17 and 18, Art. Article 19 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 laying down general provisions on the European Regional Development Fund and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1083/2006 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 965). Art. 20, par. 1, art. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). Art. 22, par. 2, art. 5, art. 23, paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 5 and art. 27 of Regulation (EU) 2017/1129 and art. 89h, para. 1 is punished with a fine from 1000 to 700,000 leva. or up to the amount of profit realised or the loss avoided as a result of the infringement where their amount can be determined. 2. In para. 2 is created t. 6: It's six. for infringements under para. 1, t. 6 from 2000 to 1 400 000 leva. or to the double amount of the profit realised or the loss avoided as a result of the infringement where their amount can be determined. 3. In para. 6 words.............................................................................. 212a, para. 1, t. 2 and para. 2, p. 2 and 3 and 3 shall be replaced by the following: 212a, para. 1, t. 2 and para. 2, p. Art. 2 and 3 and art. 212a1. 4. In para. 8 in the text before t. 1 words "al." 1 "6' is replaced by "al'. 1, t. 1.. 5 and para. 4 " 6 ". 5. A new para is being created. 9. For infringements under para. 1, t. 6 legal persons are subject to a penalty of 10 000 to 5 000 000 BGN. or up to 1.5 per cent of the total annual turnover in accordance with the latest annual financial statement drawn up, adopted by the management body or up to the amount of profit realised or the loss avoided as a result of the infringement, where their amount can be determined and in case of repeated infringement from BGN 20 000 to BGN 10 000 000. or up to three per cent of the total annual turnover in accordance with the latest annual financial statement adopted by the management body or to the double amount of the profit realised or the loss avoided as a result of the infringement where their amount can be determined. 6. So far, the Al. 9 becomes para. 10. 7. So far, the Al. Ten is canceled. 8. The creation of para. 11: In the cases referred to in para. Article 9 shall apply accordingly. 221a, para. 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 41, which shall become § 43, and the words shall be replaced by the text before that. 1.................................................................................. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 42, which shall become § 44: ..................................................... In Chapter twenty-first, art. is created. 223: Art. 223 (1) The Commission, respectively, the Vice-President, shall make public on the Commission's website any enforcement measure applied and any issued criminal order for breach of the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2017/1129, Chapter 6 and of the implementing acts in accordance with art. 42 of Regulation (EU) 2017/1129. (2) The Commission, respectively, after having carried out an assessment on a case-by-case basis of whether the disclosure of personal data for the natural person or of identity data for the legal person is disproportionate and/or liable to cause damage to it that is non-compliance and whether the publication of the information may jeopardise the stability of the financial markets or thwart the investigative action, may: 1. postpone the disclosure of the information under para. 1; 2. disclose the information under para. 1 without data on the person to whom the measure is applied, the penalty shall be imposed accordingly where such anonymous disclosure provides effective protection of the personal data concerned; 3. does not publish the information under para. 1. (3) The Commission, respectively the Vice-President, shall take a decision under para. 2, p. 3 when the measures under para. 2, p. 1 or 2 are not sufficient to ensure that the disclosure of the information under para. 1 the stability of financial markets will not be jeopardised or where publication is disproportionate in relation to forced administrative measures of a negligible nature. (4) When the grounds under para. 2, p. 1 and 2, respectively, the Vice-President shall disclose all information under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u33	Are there any speeches? I won't. I will put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 40, which becomes § 42; the text of the importer for § 41, which becomes § 43 with the proposal of the Commission to replace the text, as well as the version of § 42, which becomes § 44.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u34	Vote 92 MPs: for 91, against none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u35	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 43, which shall become § 45: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The additional provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: l. B§ 1: (a) point 9 is amended as follows: Nine. In the case of a legal person, the legal person shall be a legal person within the meaning of Article 6 (1) (b) of the Act. 2 point (j) of Regulation (EU) 2017/1129; (b) c. 27 after the words 11 of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2017/565 of 25 April 2016 supplementing Directive 2014/65/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council with regard to organisational requirements and operating conditions by investment firms and setting out definitions for the purposes of that Directive (OB, L 87/1 of 31 March 2017)) is used in combination with other substances (e.g. alcohol, alcohol, alcohol, etc.) and in combination with other substances (e.g. alcohol, alcohol, alcohol, alcohol, alcohol, etc.), and in combination with other substances (e.g. alcohol, alcohol, etc.). (c) c. 32 after the words (d) new items shall be created. 39 and 40: 39. A multi-party trading system is a concept within the meaning of § 1, t. 18 point (a) of the Additional Provisions of the Financial Instruments Markets Act; 40. A regulated market is a concept within the meaning of art. 152 of the Financial Instruments Markets Act. 2. In § 1d: (a) in para. 1 t. 4 is repealed; (b) paragraph 2 is amended as follows: This law provides for measures for the implementation of: 1. Regulation (EU) No 909/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on improving securities settlement in the European Union and on central securities depositories and amending Directives 98/26/EC and 2014/65/EU and Regulation (EU) No) 2. Regulation (EU) 2017/1129 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 June 2017 on the prospectus to be published in the event of a public offering or admission of securities to trading on a regulated market and repealing Directive 2003/87/EC (OB, L 168/12 of 30 June 2017)) (see Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009). 3. In § 1e, para. 1 words.............................................................................. 100o, para. One, two, four and five shall be replaced by one. 100o, para. 1, 2 and 4
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u36	Are there any statements under § 43? I won't. I'm calling off the debate. I shall put to the vote § 43, which shall become § 45 in the version of the Commission. They voted 93 MPs: 92, none, abstention 1. Mrs. Saveklieva, please continue the presentation of the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for the name of the subdivision: 'Concluding provisions'. Under § 44, there is a proposal from the National Representative Daniela Saveklieva, made in accordance with Article 44. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 44, which shall become § 46: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In the Law on Markets in Financial Instruments (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 30 para. Four is 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 45, para. 3 words................................................................................. 3. Article 77 is amended as follows: Art. 77. (1) The investment firm shall ensure that persons who provide the client with information as well as investment or ancillary services on behalf of the investment firm have the necessary knowledge and competence to fulfil their obligations under art. 70 - 75 and 78 - 81. (2) The services under art. 6, para. 2, p. 4 and 5 may be provided only through investment consultants and the transmission of orders under art. 6, para. 2, p. 1, services and activities under art. 6, para. 2, p. 2 and the activities under art. 6, para. 2, p. 3 Only through brokers of financial instruments, except where the services are provided via an electronic trading platform operating in automatic mode when transmitting or executing the order. (3) Provision of information, conclusion of contracts under art. 82, para. 1 and acceptance orders of customers shall be carried out by: 1. persons offering financial instruments; 2. brokers of financial instruments; 3. investment consultants; 4. the managers, executive members of the management body or prosecutors of the investment firm. (4) The person offering financial instruments shall: 1. holds secondary education; 2. meets the requirements of art. 13, para. 4 t. 1 s = 4, 6 and 7; 3. has fulfilled obligations in relation to the provision of information on investment or ancillary services at least 6 months of full-time. (5) A broker of financial instruments, an investment consultant, respectively, may be a person who: 1. holds secondary or higher education for a financial instrument broker, respectively holds a higher education for an investment consultant; 2. meets the requirements of art. 13, para. 4 t. 1 s = 4, 6 and 7; 3. has acquired the right to operate as a financial instrument broker for a financial instrument broker, respectively as an investment consultant for an investment consultant, or has been recognised as an acquired qualification for the exercise of the relevant activity; 4. has fulfilled obligations in relation to the provision of information, investment advice to clients or investment or ancillary services at least 6 months of full-time. (6) The order of acquisition, recognition and revocation of a financial instrument broker, respectively, of an investment consultant, shall be determined by a decree. (7) Person meeting the requirements of para. 4 t. Paragraph 1 and 2, respectively. 5, t. 1.. 3 but does not meet the requirement under para. 4 t. 3, respectively, para. 5, t. 4 may only provide the relevant services under surveillance. The provision of monitoring services shall be the provision of services to customers under the responsibility of a monitoring officer of the investment firm, which shall comply with the requirements of para. 4, respectively, para. 5. (8) The investment firm shall periodically assess the knowledge and competence of the persons under para. 3, p. 3 based on criteria laid down by a regulation. (9) Provision of information within the meaning of this Article means the direct provision of information to clients about financial instruments, investment services or ancillary services, or at the request of the client, or at the initiative of the investment firm, in the context of providing the client with services and activities under art. 6 as well as provision of information on structured deposits. (10) Additional requirements for the persons under para. 3, p. 1 " 3" and the activity they carry out are determined by a decree. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 85, para. 6 in the text before t. 1 the words "March 31st" shall be replaced by "April 30th." 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 127 words The register of growth markets shall be replaced by the register under art. 30, para. 1, t. 1 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 170, para. 1 the word "supplier' is replaced by "supplier'. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 178, para. 1 sentence 2 is created: "Applying the quote steps does not prevent the regulated market from comparing large-scale orders with the average value within the quotes'. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 180, para. 6 the words "Directive 2003/87/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 November 2003 on the prospectus to be published when securities are offered to the public or admitted to trading, and amending Directive 2001/34/EC, hereinafter referred to as "Directive 2003', are replaced by "Regulation (EU) 2017/1129 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 June 2017 on the prospectus to be published on the public offering or admission of securities to trading on a regulated market, and repealing Directive 2003/87/EC (OB, L 168/12 of 30 June 2017) and the Law on the Public Offering of Securities. 9. In Part Two, Title 6 is created with art. 227c: .................................................... Administrators of benchmarks Administrators of benchmarks Art. 227c. (1) A benchmark administrator shall be a concept within the meaning of art. 3 (1) (b) 6 of Regulation (EU) 2016/1011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2016 on indices used as benchmarks for financial instruments and financial contracts or for measuring the performance of investment funds and amending Directives 2008/48/EC and 2014/16/EU and Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 (OB, L 171/1 of 29 June 2016)), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) (2) The additional requirements to be met by administrators of non-significant benchmarks concerning the monitoring function under art. 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/1011, the input data under art. 11 of Regulation (EU) 2016/1011, transparency of the methodology under art. 13 of Regulation (EU) 2016/1011 and the management and control requirements for supervised contributors under art. 16 of Regulation (EU) 2016/1011 shall be determined by a decree. 10. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 276, para. 14 words of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2016 on indices used as benchmarks for financial instruments and financial contracts or for measuring the performance of investment funds and amending Directives 2008/48/EC and 2014/16/EU and Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 (OJ, 171/1 of 29 June 2016).), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) 11. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 1 after the words. 276, para. 1, t. 1 and 20 14 and 15 and the words............................................................................................... 276, para. 1, t. 24, para. 14 and 15 shall be replaced by.......................................................................................................... 276, para. 1, t. 2.. 19, 21. 24......................................................................................................... (b) in para. 3 after the words................................................................................................ 276, para. 1, t. 1 and 20 14 and 15 and the words............................................................................................... 276, para. 1, t. 24, para. 14 and 15 shall be replaced by.......................................................................................................... 276, para. 1, t. 2.. 19, 21. (c) in para. 4 after the words. 276, para. 1, t. 1 and 20 14 and 15 and the words............................................................................................... 276, para. 1, t. 24, para. 14 and 15 shall be replaced by.......................................................................................................... 276, para. 1, t. 2.. 19, 21. 24......................................................................................... 12. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 290, para. 1, t. 4 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 294, para. 2 and 3 the words "Regulation (EU) No are replaced by "Regulation (EU) No 14. In the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Markets in Financial Instruments in § 82, p. 1 of the transitional and final provisions, the words. "12 months after the promulgation of the law in the Official Journal of the European Union" shall be replaced by "from 20 August 2020." Proposal by the National Representative Daniela Saveklieva, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 45, which shall become § 47: ss ss s s s s s In the Financial Supervision Commission Act (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1, para. 2, p. 1 The Union shall be replaced by a comma and shall be added to the list of the members of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 June 2017 on the prospectus to be published in the event of a public offering or admission of securities to trading on a regulated market and repealing Directive 2003/87/EC (OB, L 168/12 of 30 June 2017.), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) 2017/1129'. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12, para. 1 is created t. 21: ..21. is a competent authority for the application of Regulation (EU) 2017/1129. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1: (aa) c. 9 after the words supplied in the order of "supplied', the words "signing' or refusals to issue confirmations' shall be replaced by the words "supplied' and the word "supplied' shall be replaced by the words "supplied'; (bb) c. 20 words shall be deleted within 30 days of their submission in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Committee; (c) a new item shall be created. 34: It's 34. on a proposal from the alternate vice-president shall exercise the powers under art. 32 of Regulation (EU) 2017/1129 and implements forced administrative measures for infringements of Regulation (EU) 2017/1129; (dd) the current item. 34 becomes t. 35; (b) in para. 7 the words in the committee's newsletter and on its Internet page shall be replaced by the committee's website. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) c. 1 the numbers..31. 33... 31. (b) c. 6, 7 and 16 after the words 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1, t. 1 and 6 and para. 3 after the words "Regulation (EU) Butane', the words "Regulation (EU) 2017/1129' are replaced by "Regulation (EU) 2017/1129'; (b) in para. 6 words on the imposition of administrative penalties shall be deleted. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 19th para. 2, p. 1 after the words "Regulation (EU) Butane' and "Regulation (EU) 2017/1129' are added. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24, para. 1 the words "in relation to the objectives' shall be replaced by "the objectives'. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 is created a new t. 10: .10: the Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators and the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, where necessary for the performance of their functions, pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 1227/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2011 on the integrity and transparency of the wholesale energy market (OB, L 326/1 of 8 December 2011).) (see Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2009 concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). b) Previous t. 10 and 11 are respectively t. 11 and 12. 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) c. 1 the words "Securities" shall be deleted; (b) c. 3. in the end is added........................................................................................... 100k, para. 2, p. 5 of the Law on Public Offering of Securities. 10. In the annex to art. 27, para. 1: (a) in Section I, point I: (aa) in row 3 of the table, the word "confirmation' shall be replaced by the words "supplied' and the words "supplied' shall be replaced by the words "supplied'. Art. 79, Art. In the case of the aid, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 3 of the IPS) is deleted; (bb) Row 7a is created in the table: (table is not read); (b) in Section II, item I, in row 25 of the table, the words (c) in Section III: (aa) in the name of the section, the word "confirmation' shall be replaced by "supplied' and after the word "supplied' shall be added by Regulation (EU) 2017/1129. (bb) in the text prior to the table, the words "To issue confirmations of a prospectus for the public offering of securities' shall be replaced by "To issue an approval of a prospectus under Regulation (EU) 2017/1129'; (c) Rows 1 s 4 of the table are amended as follows: (the table is not read). The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 46, which shall become § 48. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 47, which shall become § 49, and the words shall be deleted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 48, which shall become § 50, in c. 2 point (d) is replaced by an obligation for (i) the words (ii) are replaced by (iii) the words (iii) and (iv) the words (iv) the words (v) the words (v) the words (v) the words (v) are replaced by the words (v) the words (v) the words (v) are replaced by the words (v) the words (v) the words (v) the words (v) the words (v),
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u38	Thank you. Do you have any comments on the title of the section and paragraphs 44 to 48? You have the floor to speak. I don't see anyone who wants to. We're putting an end to this debate. We vote on the name of the section, as well as the editorials of paragraphs 44 to 48, including and their renumbering, respectively, now occur from § 44, which becomes § 46, to § 48, which becomes § 50. 86 MPs voted: 85, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u39	According to § 49 the proposal by the National Representative Daniela Saveklieva, made in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 49 be rejected. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 50, which shall become § 51: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on the Activity of collective investment schemes and of other collective investment enterprises (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 156, para. 3 words as issuer and their emissions shall be deleted. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) 2017/1129'; (b) in para. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 1 and 2 the words "the Society under art. 77sh, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on the Public Offering of Securities is replaced by a small and medium-sized enterprise; (b) the creation of para. 10: For the purposes of this Article, a small and medium-sized enterprise is a company which, according to the last annual or consolidated report, meets at least two of the following conditions: 1. the average number of employees during the financial year is less than 250 persons; 2. the total value of balance sheet assets shall not exceed the remaining equivalent of EUR 43 000 000; 3. the net annual turnover shall not exceed the equivalent of EUR 50 000 000. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 51, which shall become § 52. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 52, which shall become § 53.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u40	Do you have any comments on the rejected § 49 under paragraphs 50, 51 and 52? Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the rejection of § 49; the Commission's texts of § 50, which shall become § 51; of § 51, which shall become § 52, and of § 52, which shall become § 53. Vote 84 MPs: 82, none, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u41	Proposal by the National Representative Daniela Saveklieva, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create new paragraphs 54, 55 and 56: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Code of Social Security (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 4 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / (b) in para. 5, t. 2 after the word "Broker" "financial instruments" shall be added. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 170, para. 1 comma after the word "the heirs' is replaced by a dash. § 55. In the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, and for overcoming the consequences (promise, SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 in the text before t. 1 the words "and two months after its cancellation" shall be replaced by "the emergency epidemic situation and three months after its cancellation" and, in that case, shall be replaced by "the emergency epidemic situation." 2 after the word "Securities', the provision of sampling and reporting services is added, the purchase of "steering', and the addition of "supplied support' is added; (b) in para. 2 after the word, the position shall be added during the exceptional epidemic situation and three months after its cancellation. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15a all over the world, two months after its cancellation, shall be replaced by the emergency epidemic situation and up to three months after its cancellation. 3. In § 20, para. 1 of the transitional and final provisions, the words "emergency' shall continue to take effect during the emergency situation and two months after its cancellation and shall be replaced by "emergency' or "emergency', shall continue to operate during the emergency situation, respectively, during the emergency situation and three months after its cancellation. § 56. It is not a public limited liability company which, after 21 July 2019 and until the entry into force of this law, issued shares under the conditions of the primary public offering which are not admitted to trading on a regulated market. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 53, which shall become § 57. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 54, which shall become § 58. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 55, which shall become § 59. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 56, which shall become § 60. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 57, which shall become § 61. Under § 58 "A proposal from the National Representative Daniela Saveklieva, made in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 58, which becomes § 62: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The law shall enter into force from 21 August 2020, with the exception of § 46. 14, § 52, § 54, p. 2, § 55 and § 56, which shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u42	Do you have any comments on the new paragraphs 54, 55 and 56, as well as paragraphs 53 to 58 inclusive? I don't see anyone who wants to. Here you are, Mrs. Saveklieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u43	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We are already at the end of the Law, but I would like to thank all my colleagues in the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the referees who worked on this law, as well as the Financial Supervision Commission, the Social Ministry, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economy for the good work, but especially for the fact that we have united and voted unanimously, as we will now also vote in this House these amendments, which concern about about five thousand Bulgarian citizens who receive social benefits on the basis of TELK's decisions, so that they can all not be harmed and get the full amount for this month, but this is thanks to all political parties and parliamentary groups in this National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u44	Thank you. Do you have any lines? You don't. Thank you. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the text of the new paragraphs 54, 55 and 56; the text of the importer of paragraphs 53 to 57 which shall become respectively paragraphs 57 to 61, and the text of the importer in the respective version of § 58, which shall become § 62. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been adopted, and we have concluded with the second vote of the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Public Offering of Securities. Thank you. Let's continue with: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS IN HUMAN MEDICIA. Importer is the Council of Ministers. Let's start with § 45 and move on.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u45	Under § 45, there is a proposal of the MP Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs: In § 45, the numbering of the members in the creations section is changed to 261k The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 45 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u46	Do you have any comments? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Valentina Naydenova. Vote 69 MPs: for 7, against 57, abstention 5. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the rejection of § 45. I'm calling off the vote. I shall put those texts of the Bill to the vote again. Vote 87 MPs: 77, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u47	Under § 46, there is a proposal from the MP Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 46 be rejected. Under § 47, there is a proposal of the MP Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 47 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u48	Statements under paragraphs 46 and 47? I won't. I'm calling off the debate. I shall put to the vote the rejection of § 46 and § 47. Vote 89 MPs: 84, none, abstention 5. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u49	Under § 48, there is a proposal of the MP Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 48, which becomes § 39: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 262 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The positive medicinal product list shall include medicinal products to which the international non-proprietary name to which the medicinal product/combination-in combination medicinal products belongs, except generic medicinal products and medicinal products containing an active substance or active substances with a well-established use in medical practice, shall be paid by a public health insurance fund and/or by public means in the same therapeutic indication at least in 5 countries specified in the regulation under art. 261a, para. 5. The international non-proprietary name to which a medicinal product intended for the treatment of rare diseases belongs shall be paid by a public health insurance fund and/or by public funds in the same therapeutic indication at least in 5 of all Member States. 2. In para. 6: (a) the text before t. 1 is amended as follows: The positive drug list consists of four applications and includes: (b) c. 3 shall be added at the end by the decree under art. 58, para. 2 of the Health Act Under § 49, there is a proposal of the MP Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 49, which becomes § 40: ..... 40................... 40...................................................... Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 2621 "2623: Art. 2621. (1) In the Annexes to the Positive Drug List under art. 262, para. 6 shall be indicated: anatomo-therapeutic classification code, international non-proprietary name (INN), name of the medicinal product, formulation and quantity of the active substance, package containing the marketing authorisation, defined daily dose/treatment/concentration/volume, the price under art. 261a, para. 1, reference value, value for packaging calculated on the basis of reference value, level of payment of the medicinal product, therapeutic indications and diseases under the MKB, producer/producers, information on restrictions on prescription methods in different indications, national identification number of the medicinal product under art. 19th para. 3 and additional information. (2) The positive drug list shall contain information on the type of medicinal product defined in the authorisation procedure. Information on the type of medicinal product shall be provided by the EAL within 7 days of receipt of an inquiry by the National Council for Prices and Reimbursement of Medicinal Products for each particular medicinal product. Art. 2622. The Ministry of Health, the National Health Insurance Fund and the medical institutions shall provide the Council with full information on the paid medicinal products under art. 262, para. 6, p. 1.. 3 in a row defined in the regulation under art. 261a, para. 5. Art. 2623. (1) The Marketing Authorisation Holder or his authorised representative shall be obliged within two working days of receipt of the decision of the Board to change the price under art. 261a, para. 1 " 3" of a medicinal product to inform the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union and wholesalers in an appropriate manner and to inform retailers of medicinal products accordingly. (2) The Board of Staff shall inform the Ministry of Health and the National Health Insurance Fund of the decisions for which pre-execution has been made. According to § 50 there is a proposal of the MP Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 50 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u50	Are there any statements under paragraphs 39, 40 and 50? I won't. I'm calling off the debate. I shall put to the vote the version of the Commission of § 48, which shall become § 39; the version of the Commission of § 49, which shall become § 40, and the rejection of § 50. Vote 98 MPs: 88 against 1, abstention 9. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u51	Under § 51, there is a proposal of the MP Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 51, which shall become § 41: ............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 262b the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 text before t. 1 is amended as follows: The Positive Drug List shall include medicinal products belonging to a new international non-proprietary name for which a health technology assessment has been carried out. The assessment of health technologies is part of the procedure for inclusion of the medicinal product in the Positive Drug List, containing clinical and pharmaco-economic evaluation and including: 2. The creation of para. 3: The relevant application of the Positive Drug List shall include medicinal products belonging to a new international non-proprietary name for which a health technology assessment has been carried out under para. 1 and for which there is at least one positive assessment of health technology by a state institution of Great Britain, France, Germany and Sweden. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 52, which shall become § 42.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u52	Statements under paragraphs 51 and 52? I won't. I'm calling off the debate. I shall put to the vote the texts of § 51, which shall become § 41, as amended by the Commission, and § 52, which shall become § 42. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u53	Under § 53, there is a proposal of the MP Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 53 be rejected. Under § 54, there is a proposal of the MP Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 54 be rejected. According to § 55 there is a proposal of the MP Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 55 be rejected. According to § 56 there is a proposal of the MP Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 56 be rejected. According to § 57, there is a proposal of the MP Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 57 be rejected. Under § 58, there is a proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made in accordance with Article 58. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 58, which shall become § 43: ..................................................... Article 266 is amended as follows: Art. 266. (1) The Transparency Committee shall be a body to which decisions of the Council may be appealed administratively. (2) The decisions of the Transparency Committee shall be taken by a majority of two thirds of its composition. (3) The decisions of the Council may be appealed in court and without having exhausted the possibility of challenging them in administrative order.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u54	You have the floor to speak under paragraphs 53, 54, 55, 56 and 57, which are proposed to be rejected, as well as by the wording of § 58, which becomes § 43. There are no speeches. I'm calling off the debate. I shall put to the vote the rejection of § 53 to § 57 in accordance with the Commission's proposal, as well as the wording of § 58, which shall become § 43. They voted 91 MPs: 85, none, abstention 6. The proposals have been accepted. I'm adjourned for 30 minutes. At 12:01 p.m., everyone to your seats. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u55	Mrs. Daritkova, come and introduce us to the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u56	Under § 59, there is a proposal of the MP Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 59, which shall become § 44: ..................................................... Art. 12 is created in Chapter 12. 266b: Art. 266b. (1) Exceptionally, in the absence of an alternative to the treatment of a particular patient and only in the interests of his or her health, a medicinal product authorised in the country may be used outside the conditions of the Marketing Authorisation of the medicinal product, provided scientific evidence is available for the safety and efficacy of the medicinal product. (2) The medicinal product under para. 1 is prescribed by a committee of three doctors from a hospital with a recognised speciality in the disease profile that motivates the prescription for each particular patient. (3) The treatment under para. 1 shall be carried out in a hospital care facility after receipt of written informed consent from the patient. (4) Each stage of treatment of the patient shall be monitored and documented by the doctors of the Committee under para. 2 who are responsible for carrying out the treatment under para. 1. (5) The Commission under para. 2 informs the Executive Agency of the medical supervision and the IAL of the treatment under para. 1. (6) The conditions and procedures for obtaining informed consent from the patient under para. 3, the follow-up and documentation of the treatment under para. 4 and the safety and efficacy of the medicinal product are defined in the regulation under art. 9, para. 1. (7) In the cases under para. 1 the medicinal product is not paid by public funds.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u57	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u58	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, honourable Members! In this case, the importer proposes something that the medical community and patient organizations have been demanding for a long time. In our clinical practice, there are many cases where we, as the last alternative, when all other alternatives are exhausted, use based on our scientific and practical experience of the drugs to call them conditional molecules that do not have in the product's characteristic the indication of the direction, for the particular nosologic unit.. disease to call it in a more ordinary language for which we have decided to use it, but this may prove lifesaving for the patient. In this sense, we welcome the legislator's proposal on a single condition. I'm explaining why. Most of these drugs are relatively new, they have no generic substitutes, they are relatively financial. This will not burden the health budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, but will prove to be in many of the cases which, I repeat, are an exception which is impossible for the individual patient to pay for his treatment after it is not paid by public funds. Since most of these medications are financial, I repeat, they will not significantly burden the National Health Insurance Fund's budget, but may prove impossible for the individual patient. In this way we create an opportunity and with the last paragraph of Article. 266b put the patient in the conditions that he had to pay out of his own pocket the appropriate treatment, which would almost never be in his capacity. That is why my editorial proposal, Madam President, is al. 7 down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u59	Thank you, Mr. Mihailov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u60	Madam President, honourable Members! I think that this point that we are looking at is very important because each of our colleagues has probably been approached by patients or by their relatives who have had problems in this hypothesis. In order to be brief, I would like to draw attention to Dr Daritkova's expertise here, because it is provided in paragraphs 2 and 3, that this hypothesis is to be carried out in hospital care facilities, and I think that a large part of these patients are in complex oncology centres, whether we should add to the complex hospital centres and assume that they are hospital institutions. I think we should add them, because the complex oncology centers in the Law on Medical Institutions are a separate order, I can tell you that. So my proposal is in paragraphs 2 and 3 after a hospital hospital to add to the hospital. Here I pay attention to you with all the clarity of what is happening that para. 7, for which Professor Mihaylov pleaded just a moment ago, will burden extremely many patients who need this treatment, because these preparations are usually expensive. The paradox is that they are prescribed in a certain order, and it is difficult for an ordinary patient to get these medications out. They should be for treatment in the hospital, which should, however, pay them and then seek reimbursement of this money from the patient himself, that is, I plead to support Professor Mihailov's proposal. 7 down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u61	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. - What's the line? Any other speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. First, I will put to the vote Mr. Mihailov's proposal. 7 down. They voted 92 MPs: 13 against 13, 66 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. I now vote on Mr. Yordanov's proposal. They voted 93 MPs: 15 against 1, abstention 77. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the version of § 59, which becomes § 44 on the Commission Report. Vote 95 MPs: 81 against 11, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u62	Under § 60, there is a proposal from the MP Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs: The following amendments and additions shall be made in § 60: 1. A new t. is created. 1: "1." In para. 1 the words of the Chairman of the Council under art. 258, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) (i) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (iii) (i) (ii) (ii) (iii) (i) (iv) (iv) (iv) 2. Points 1 and 2 shall become points 2 and 3 respectively. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 60, which shall become § 45.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u63	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs. Vote 96 MPs: 15 against 75 abstentions 6. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 60, which shall become § 45. Vote 99 MPs: 81 against 16, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u64	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 61, which shall become § 46. Under § 62, there is a proposal from the MP Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 62, which shall become § 47: ss ss s s s s s In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 268 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 2 is created t. 4. "4." on the disposal activities of medicinal products; 2. In para. 3, p. 2 after the word The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 63, which shall become § 48. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 64, which shall become § 49. Proposal of the National Representative Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 50: .................................................................................. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 270a: Art. 270a. (1) In carrying out its control functions the Council under art. 258, para. 1 shall be entitled to: 1. requires information about: (a) quantities delivered on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria by medicinal products and their acquisition prices; (b) the wholesalers to whom the quantities of medicinal products referred to in point (a) are delivered; (c) the date on which the supplies referred to in points (a) and (b) have been made; (d) the quantities available in the warehouses referred to by medicinal products. 2. verify commercial or other documents, documents and information carriers with a view to establishing compliance with established prices, marginal prices or registered prices of medicinal products; 3. require and collect original documents, data, information, papers, references and other means of information to establish compliance with established prices, marginal prices or registered prices of medicinal products; require certified copies of written documents and certified printouts of technical media; 4. obtain access from the persons inspected to their automated information systems, products or archives where the collection, storage and processing of the information is carried out in this way. (2) In carrying out its control functions, the Council shall be entitled to require the persons inspected to provide information and documents under para. 1 within a specified period. (3) The Council may conclude agreements for interaction with other control bodies in the performance of its functions under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 65, which shall become § 51. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 66, which shall become § 52. Proposal of the National Representative Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 67, which shall become § 53: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Article 3 is replaced by the following: 272b: Art. 272b. (1) Holders of a manufacturing/import authorisation, holders of a marketing authorisation, holders of a parallel import authorisation, holders of a wholesale marketing authorisation for medicinal products, holders of a retailer's authorisation for medicinal products in a pharmacy and medical establishments shall carry out the actions laid down in Delegated Regulation (EU) 2016/161. (2) The Bulgarian organisation for verification of medicines shall establish and manage the National Register under art. 32, p. 1 point (b) of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2016/161 which serves the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. (3) Right of free access to the register under para. 2 have the following national competent authorities according to art. 39 of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2016/161: 1. For the purpose of supervising the functioning of the registers and investigating suspected cases of counterfeiting and for pharmacovigilance or pharmacoepidemiology purposes; 2. The Ministry of Health, the National Health Insurance Fund and the Council under art. 258, para. 1 For the purpose of payment of medicinal products by public funds. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 68, which shall become § 54. Under § 69, there is a proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made in accordance with Article 69. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 69, which shall become § 55: ........... 55....................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 284a The following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1. 2. The creation of para. 2: The holder of a production authorisation or import authorisation, the holder of a marketing authorisation or the holder of a parallel import authorisation, who does not fulfil his obligation on the safety performance of medicinal products as defined in this law or in Delegated Regulation (EU) 2016/161, shall be subject to a penalty of 5000 to 10 000 BGN and, in the event of the same infringement, a penalty of 25 000 to 50 000 BGN. Under § 70, there is a proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made in accordance with Article 70. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 70, which shall become § 56: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 284c is The holder of a wholesale marketing authorisation for medicinal products which failed to fulfil its obligation on the safety performance of medicinal products as defined in this law, in a sub-legal act on the application of this law or in Delegated Regulation (EU) 2016/161, shall be subject to a penalty of 5000 to 10 000 BGN, and when the same infringement is repeated, a penalty of 10 000 to 20 000 BGN is imposed. Proposal of the National Representative Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create new paragraphs 57 and 58: ...... 57............................................................... Article 284f is repealed. § 58. Article 284g is repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u65	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote first the text of the importer for § 61, which shall become § 46; the version of § 62, which shall become Paragraph 47 of the Commission Report; the text of the importer for paragraphs 63 and 64, which shall become paragraphs 48 and 49 respectively; the new § 50; the wording of the importer for paragraphs 65 and 66, which shall become paragraphs 51 and 52 respectively; the version of Paragraph 67, which shall become § 53 of the Commission Report; the text of the importer for § 68, which shall become § 54; the version of § 69, which shall become § 55 of the Commission Report; the version of § 70, which shall become § 56 of the Commission Report, and the two new paragraphs 57 and 58 created. They voted 106 MPs: for 91, against 14, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u66	Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 59: ............... 59................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 284 for the words "al." The following points are inserted after point 9 (Commission The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 71, which shall become § 60. Under § 72, there is a proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made in accordance with Article 72. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 72, which shall become § 61: ......... 61..................................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 288a: Art. 288a. The holder of a retail marketing authorisation for medicinal products in a pharmacy that failed to fulfil its obligation on the safety performance of medicinal products as defined in this law or in Delegated Regulation (EU) 2016/161 shall be subject to a penalty of 1000 to 3000 BGN and, in the event of the same infringement, a penalty of 5000 to 10 000 BGN. Under § 73, there is a proposal of the MP Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 73, which shall become § 62: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 289 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 2 after the word "supplier" is added "supplier" or "supplier" with medicinal products. 2. A new para is being created. 3: To a wholesaler with medicinal products that sells medicinal products included in the Positive Drug List to a medical establishment at a price higher than the value established under the regulation under art. 261a, para. 5, a penalty of 3,000 to 5000 BGN is imposed and if the same infringement is repeated, a penalty of 6,000 to 10 000 BGN is imposed. 3. They're creating an al. 4, 5 and 6: In the case of a medical establishment referred to in Article 1, the competent authority shall inform the competent authority of the competent authority of the competent authority of the Member State where the medical establishment is located. 262, para. 6, p. 2 which bought medicinal products included in the Positive Drug List at a price higher than the value formed by the order of the ordinance under art. 261a, para. 5, a penalty of 3,000 to 5000 BGN is imposed and a penalty of 6,000 to 10 000 BGN is imposed upon the same infringement. (5) The violations of para. 1? 3 shall be established by acts drawn up by officials appointed by the President of the Council under art. 258, para. 1 and the penal decrees shall be issued by the President of the Council under Article 1. 258, para. 1. (6) The violations of para. 4 shall be established by acts drawn up by officials appointed by the Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the Medical Supervision Agency and the criminal decrees shall be issued by the Executive Director of the Medical Supervision Executive Agency. Under § 74, there is a proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made in accordance with Article 74. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 74, which shall become § 63: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 289a is created. 3: In the case of checks under art. 267a, para. 2 A non-compliance of the types and quantities of medicinal products prescribed and/or applied to patients with the types and quantities of medicinal products granted by the pharmacy shall be established, the Medical Supervision Executive Agency shall inform the authority paying the medicinal product by public means and, in the case of evidence of a criminal offence, the competent authorities shall refer to the competent authorities for taking action in criminal proceedings. According to § 75 there is a proposal of the MP Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 75, which shall become § 64: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Article 3 is replaced by the following: 289b: Art. 289b. (1) who conducts treatment in violation of the requirements of art. 266b, is punished with a fine from 1000 to 3000 BGN and if the same infringement is repeated with a fine from 2000 to 4000 BGN. (2) The violations of para. 1 shall be established by acts drawn up by officials appointed by the Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the Medical Supervision Agency and the criminal decrees shall be issued by the Executive Director of the Medical Supervision Executive Agency. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 76, which shall become § 65.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u67	Statements? I can't see. Colleagues, I first put to the vote the creation of a new § 59; the text of the importer for § 71, which becomes § 60; the version of § 72, which becomes § 61 of the Commission Report; the version of § 73, which becomes § 62 of the Commission Report; the version of § 74, which becomes § 63; the version of § 75, which becomes § 64 of the Commission Report, and the text of the importer for § 76, which becomes § 65. They voted 107 MPs: for 93, against 14, no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u68	Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs: screated § 76a: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 294 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 1 shall be inserted: scrubbing the Council of Experts under Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 and Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 258 and 259 who violated the provisions of this law are punished with a penalty of 1000 to 10 000 BGN. for each case in particular. 2. So far, text becomes para. 2. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u69	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs. They voted 102 MPs: 24, against 73, abstention 5. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u70	Under § 77, there is a proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made in accordance with Article 77. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 77, which shall become § 66: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 295 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 words.............................................................................. 267, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation 2. The creation of para. 5. The Regional Health Inspections shall inform the IAL of the acts which have been drawn up to establish administrative infringements and of the criminal decrees issued pursuant to this law which have entered into force.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u71	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version of § 77, which shall become § 66 of the Commission Report. Vote 99 MPs: 87, Against 11, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u72	Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs: screated § 77a: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 298 Art. 298. Whoever has received authorisations for production, use, trade in the country and the Community, and certificates for registration of medicinal products and does not provide it on the market without notifying the IAL, a fine shall be imposed on individuals who are not traders of BGN 1500 to 15 000 or a charge of................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. In cases of repeated infringement, fines and penalties shall be doubled. Art. 299. Retailer who sells medicinal products in hospital packaging is punished with a fine of 1000 BGN. up to 10 000 BGN, respectively a penalty from 10 000 to 20 000 BGN is imposed, and in case of repeated infringement from 25 000 to 50 000 BGN. Art. 300. For violating the requirements of art. 219 The natural person shall be punished with a fine of one minimum wage to three minimum wages and the trader shall be subject to a penalty of 1000 to 5000 BGN respectively, and in case of repeated infringement the fine and penalty shall be doubled. In more than three violations of the requirements of art. 219 The marketing authorisation shall be revoked. Art. 301. For violating the requirements of art. 259 b The natural person is punished with a fine of one minimum wage to three minimum wages and the trader is accordingly imposed a penalty of 1000 to 5000 BGN, and in case of repeated infringement the fine and penalty are doubled. In more than three violations of the requirements of art. 259b, without being notified to the IAL within the relevant time limit, the retail authorisation shall be revoked. The Commission does not support the proposal. Under § 78, there is a proposal of the MP Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs: In § 78, point (b) is replaced by the following: 1 point (j) is inserted: ==References=====External links===* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* It's 93. The package is a package of medicinal products in which more than one number of doses of medicinal products are collected in one place and the package differs by type from the one-dose packaging sold by a retailer (a pharmacy) to an end-user; 94. A medicinal substance is any matter of human, animal, plant or chemical origin which is a substance or combination of substances intended for the treatment or prevention of diseases in humans. 95. "End User" within the meaning of art. ) (a.k.a. 2 is a natural or legal person who acquires medicinal products for own use by a retailer registered under this law. 96. It is the science and activities related to the detection, evaluation, understanding and prevention of adverse reactions or other medical problems (WHO, Geneva, WHO, 2002).). 97. The doctor or seller at the pharmacy is responsible for the medicinal products supplied under a prescription or an electronic medium and for which an adverse event is involved. 98. The medicinal products sold without a prescription are medicinal products purchased by the consumer of his choice, for which an adverse event, impact or side effects on health are solely the responsibility of the consumer. 99. The population is a historical and functionally distinct territory defined by the existence of a permanent living population. 100. The official control laboratory is a laboratory that performs laboratory tests on medicinal products on behalf of the competent regulatory authorities in compliance with relevant national requirements and is independent of manufacturers and holders of authorisations for the use of medicinal products. 101. "Paraleal imports' is the supply of original medicinal products bearing a trademark produced in accordance with the requirements of the brand owner but distributed without its permission in the country to which they are imported. 102. "Paralelic export" is a supply of medicinal products from Bulgaria to countries outside the European Union. If medicinal products are legally sold on the Bulgarian market, the sale in another country is parallel exports. 103. "Positative drug list (PPS) " means a list of medicinal products (controlled medicines), medical devices and diet foods for special medical purposes, provided by prescription and paid with funds from the budget of the NHIF, from the state budget, from the budget of the medical institutions under art. 5 of the Law on Medical Institutions and of the budget of medical institutions with state and/or municipal participation, by negotiating concessions and implementing mechanisms ensuring predictability and sustainability of the budget concerned. 104. He is a specialist with an educational and qualification degree of professional Bachelor and professional qualification of a pharmacist assistant who is actively involved in medicine supply and drug distribution. Specialists who prepare, store, distribute medicinal forms; herbal mixtures, cosmetics, diet products, sanitary materials and others. 105. "Currentness of activity" has taken action in liquidation under the order of Chapter seventeenth of the Commercial Law (art. 266 - 274, actions taken to register these circumstances and invitation to creditors in the Commercial Register. 106. "Reimbursing of medicinal products" is a process of recovering money. 107. The Social Drug List is a list of medicinal products regulated by the government and paid with private financial resources that are of social importance, including for compassionate use. 108. The clinical trial report shall be accompanied by the following information: 2 (2) point 13 of Regulation (EU) No 536/2014. 109. "Participant" means a person participating in a clinical trial, either receiving a test medicinal product or being in a control group according to art. 2 (2) point 17 of Regulation (EU) No 536/2014. 110. The company is a natural person, a specialist with higher education, entitled to engage in pharmaceutical activities, a manufacturer, a wholesaler and the last participant in the distribution network (pharmacies) or the end user (medicine/patient) of medicinal products and medical devices for single use in medicine. 111. The central warehouse is a warehouse of a manufacturer, importer or wholesaler in which the medicinal products for which the manufacturer or wholesaler is authorised to sell wholesale on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria are stored. The central warehouse shall store all information on manufactured, imported, available and sold medicinal products within the competence of the individual trader. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 78, which shall become § 67: ................. The additional provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In § 1: (a) To be created t. 37a: It's 37a. Scientific evidence is specific medical and/or scientific data obtained from clinical trials carried out and/or data demonstrating the safety and efficacy of the medicinal product, which are published in scientific editions, national or international treatment protocols or health technology assessment reports. (b) To be created t. 42c: "42c." The official control laboratory is a laboratory that performs laboratory tests on medicinal products on behalf of the competent regulatory authorities in compliance with relevant national requirements and is independent of manufacturers and holders of authorisations for the use of medicinal products. (c) point 64 is amended as follows: It's 64. A reference value for a defined daily dose is the lowest value for a defined daily dose, determined on the basis of the values for a defined daily dose of medicinal products by international non-proprietary name with the respective drug formulation. 2. Paragraph 5b is inserted: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. The provisions of the Administrative Procedure Code shall apply to cases not settled by this law.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u73	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I put to the vote first the unsupported proposals of the National Representative Valentina Naydenova for the creation of § 77a and § 78. They voted 106 MPs: 18, against 78, abstention 10. The offer is not accepted. I am now putting to the vote the version of § 78, which becomes § 67 on the Commission report. They voted 102 MPs: 86, against 13, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u74	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 68: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Within three months of the entry into force of this Act, the Drug Executive Agency shall enter into the register of art. 19th para. 1, t. 3 medicinal products authorised for use under a centralised procedure under Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council. Proposal of the National Representative Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 69: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss (1) Within three months of the entry into force of this Act, the Drug Executive Agency shall enter a national identification number under art. 19th para. 3 of all medicinal products entered in the (2) For medicinal products included in the Positive Drug List, in the register of marginal prices and in the register of maximum selling prices, the Drug Executive Agency shall enter into the register of art. 19th para. 1, t. 3 as the national identification number for the medicinal product, the identification number indicated in the relevant register led by the National Council for Prices and Reimbursement of Medicinal Products. (3) Within 18 months of the expiry of the term under para. 1 Marketing Authorisation Holders shall ensure the introduction of the unique national identification number under art. 19th para. 3 for each medicinal product as part of the individual identification mark under art. 68a. Under § 79, there is a proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made in accordance with Article 79. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 79, which shall become § 70: ...... 70......................................................................... (1) Those persons who hold both a wholesale marketing authorisation and a marketing authorisation for medicinal products in a pharmacy, who have entered into force before the entry into force of this law, shall bring their activities into conformity with the requirements of art. Art. 195a. 222a within 6 months of the entry into force of this law. (2) When within the term under para. 1 the person has not taken up his activity in accordance, the Executive Director of the IAL shall withdraw the authorisation issued at a later date. Where the second by type of activity is retailing medicinal products, the Executive Director of the IAL shall withdraw the authorisations granted to the person for all pharmacies. (3) The requirements of art. 195a and 222a shall also apply to applications for wholesale and/or retail medicinal products submitted before the entry into force of this law. Under § 80, there is a proposal of the MP Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 80, which shall become § 71: seventy-seventy-seventy-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-six. (1) Within 12 months of the entry into force of this Act, the National Council of Prices and Reimbursement of Medicinal Products shall enter the information under art. 2621, para. 2 for medicinal products included in the Positive Drug List. (2) The Executive Medicines Agency shall provide the necessary information to the National Council on prices and reimbursement of medicinal products under para. 1 within 6 months of the entry into force of this law. Under § 81, there is a proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made in accordance with Article 81. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission generally supports the text of the importer by proposing that § 81 be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in a new § 78. Under § 82, there is a proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made in accordance with Article 82. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 82, which shall become § 72: ................. 72................................................................. (1) The methodology under art. 227b, para. 5 shall be issued within 6 months of the entry into force of this law. (2) The National Pharmacy Card under art. 227a, para. 1 shall be adopted within one year of the entry into force of this law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 83, which shall become § 73. Proposal of the National Representative Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 74: ................ 74.................................................................. In the Law on Health (prom., SG No. ...), in art. 130, para. 5 t. 1 is amended as follows: "1." the donor is an adult, is not placed under an obstacle and meets the criteria laid down in the medical standard under para. 3 which ensure the safety of the donor and the quality of the eggs;
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u75	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision; the new § 68; the new § 69; the version of § 79, which becomes § 70 of the Commission Report; the version of § 80, which becomes § 71 of the Commission Report; the rejection of § 81, the content of which is reflected where it belongs; the version of § 82, which becomes § 72 of the Commission Report; the text of the importer for § 83, which becomes § 73, and the new § 74. Vote 104 MPs: 86 against 16, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u76	Under § 84, there is a proposal of the MP Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u77	Colleagues, a little quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u78	Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 84, which shall become § 75: ................................................................................... In the Health Insurance Act (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) A new item shall be created. 9. Nine. payment to persons authorised for retail trade in medicinal products for each reported prescription form with prescribed medicinal products included in the Positive Drug List under art. 262, para. 6, p. 1 of the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, with a level of payment of 100 per cent. b) the current t. 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 9 the words "s 12 and 15' are replaced by "s 12, 15 and 20'; (b) in para. 14 sentence first the words "art." 30a, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 30a, para.4 (c) in para. 18 words. The following points are inserted after point 15 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 October 2011 (d) paragraph 24 is amended as follows: The National Health Insurance Fund shall pay to persons who have received a retail authorisation for medicinal products for each reported prescription form with prescribed medicinal products included in the Positive Drug List under art. 262, para. 6, p. 1 of the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, with a level of payment of 100 per cent in order and in amount defined in the regulation under para. 9.... 3. Article 52 is amended as follows: Art. 52. (1) The performers of medical care who have entered into a contract with the NHIF to provide medical assistance included in the package defined by the ordinance under art. 45, para. 2 shall be obliged to provide healthcare insured persons without requiring and accepting from them payment and/or supplementary payment, the appropriate medical care, subject to the established medical standards under art. 6, para. 1 of the Law on Medical Institutions, the rules for good medical practice, pharmaco-therapeutic manuals under art. 259, para. 1, t. 4 of the Law on medicinal products in human medicine and the protection of the rights of the patient. (2) Uninsured persons under this law shall pay their medical assistance at prices fixed by the medical establishments, except for the medical and other services provided to them under art. 82 of the Health Act. (3) In the ordinance referred to in art. 4, para. The conditions and procedures for providing additional services outside the medical care provided under para. 3 shall also be laid down. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) the second sentence is amended as follows: "Forbidden treatment shall not be applied in the case of newly occurring circumstances and identified failure by the relevant hospital medical care on the territory of the district at the time of submission of an application for a contract under art. 59a, para. 1 established on the basis of a needs assessment according to the National Health Card. (b) The third sentence shall be created: The assessment of the failure of the hospital medical care concerned shall be carried out by the Executive Agency. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) paragraph 7 is amended as follows: 4 and 5 shall not apply to hospital care establishments and complex oncology centres authorised to carry out medical activities after the procedure under art. 37a, respectively under art. 37b of the Medical Institutions Act, in which the NHIF gave a positive opinion on financing of the relevant activities, as well as on hospital care facilities in cases where a failure of the relevant outpatient aid has been detected on the basis of an assessment of the needs under the National Health Card. (b) the creation of para. 8 and 9: For the assessment of the needs of outpatient care in the cases under para. 7 The Director of the Regional Health Inspectorate shall send a request to the Director of the Regional Health Inspection as a matter of official order. The Director of the Regional Health Inspection shall carry out the assessment and send to the Regional Health Inspectorate a certificate on the existence or absence of a need for appropriate medical care within 14 days of the receipt of the request. (9) The provision of para. 7 shall apply to the extent that the NHIF budget law for the year concerned does not establish otherwise. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) a) Previous text becomes para. 1; (b) the creation of para. 2 and 3: For the purposes of concluding a contract under para. 1 The Director of the Regional Health Inspectorate shall send a request to the Director of the Regional Health Inspectorate concerned in an official order for the assessment of failure. The assessment of failure is based on the needs of medical care according to the National Health Card. (3) The Director of the Regional Health Inspectorate shall carry out the assessment under para. 2 and sends in a professional order a certificate of the presence or absence of failure by the relevant specialists within 14 days of the request. 7. Article 79 is amended as follows: Art. 79. Expertise under art. 78 shall be carried out by committees in the central management of the NHIF and the RHIF in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the activities of the NHIF within two months of the submission of an application requiring the expertise to be carried out. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 101 is created t. 6: It's six. verify compliance with the rights of patients and with the obligations of medical institutions under art. 52. 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 5 after the words "al." the health care facilities are added to the list; (b) in para. 6 after the words "al." 1 "Securities" shall be added. 10. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 105i: Art. 105i. (1) Whoever violates a patient's right or fails to fulfil an obligation under art. 52 is punishable by a fine ranging from 2000 to 4000 BGN, respectively a penalty of 4,000 to 8000 BGN is imposed. (2) In case of repeated and any subsequent infringement under para. 1 fine is 4,000 BGN, respectively the financial penalty is 8,000 BGN. (3) The violations of para. 1 and 2 shall be established by acts of officials of the Executive Agency of the Medical Supervision Agency and the criminal decrees shall be issued by the Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the Medical Supervision. 11. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 106, para. 3 the words "s 105e" shall be replaced by "s105e" and "S 105i." 12. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) paragraph 1 is amended as follows: the funds paid by the NHIF for the treatment of damage to the health or health of other persons in the event of a deliberate crime, as well as for damage to the health of other persons in the state of alcohol intoxication or use of drugs or drugs, shall be reimbursed to the NHIF by the person responsible for the legal interest and recovery costs. (b) the creation of para. 3 and 4: The administrative authorities and the judicial authorities before which circumstances and persons under paras. are established with the entry into force of an act. 1 shall provide the NHIF with the information necessary for the recovery of the amounts of NHIF or RHIF within one month. (4) The National Health Insurance Fund shall establish and maintain a register in which the data under para. 3. The rules on the establishment, keeping, access to the register and storage of the data shall be validated by the NHIF manager.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u79	I shall put to the vote the version of § 84, which shall become § 75 of the Commission Report. Vote 92 MPs: 72 against 13, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Daritkova, if I could just insert one procedure. Colleagues, I propose that, after the end of the vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, it should immediately be as point five of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Local Self-Management and Local Administration. Please, voting mode. 90 MPs voted: 84 against 6, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u80	Under § 85, there is a proposal of the MP Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs: The following amendments and additions shall be made in the transitional and final provisions in § 85: 1. New t. is being created. "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1 is created para. The medical devices for human use are regulated under the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5 is created. 3: In the cases referred to in para. 1 the product shall be subject to the requirements of the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 27, para. 1 words after 14 days after and after shall be replaced 2. Points 1 "5" become points 4 "8" respectively. 3. A t is created. 9. Nine. In the Additional Provisions, Paragraph 1 shall be inserted. 39: "39." For medical purposes, medical devices for human use are those intended to be used for medical purposes which cannot be achieved through pharmacological, immunological or metabolic means. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs: The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 85, which shall become § 76: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Medical Products (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 2 are created t. 5 and 6: It's five o'clock. commercial information, including the selling price of the medical device certified by a document submitted to the customs office concerned, as well as the manufacturer/authorized representative, importer or trader of the medical device where the medical device is imported from a third country; 6. the value of which the medical device is paid by the National Health Insurance Fund, the Ministry of Health, the medical institutions under art. 5 of the Law on medical institutions and from medical institutions with state and/or municipal participation under art. 9 and 10 of the Medical Services Act. (b) A new para shall be created. 3: The information referred to in paragraph 3 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of The institutions and the persons under para. 2, p. 6 shall not be entitled to provide the information received to third parties. c) the current para. 3 becomes para. 4 and is amended as follows: The conditions and procedures for the inclusion of medical devices in the list under para. 1 for the provision and storage of the information under para. 2, as well as maintenance and access to the list under para. 1 shall be defined in a regulation issued by the Minister of Health. (d) the current para. 4 becomes para. 5. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 2 words.............................................................................. 30a, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of (b) the creation of para. 3: With the regulation referred to in art. 30a, para. The conditions and arrangements for determining the value to which the aids, gadgets and facilities for people with disabilities are to be paid shall also be determined by means of art. 23, para. 1, t. 11 of the Insurance Act. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. The first sentence shall first check the documents referred to in Article 1. 78 and 78a "shape" are replaced by an assessment of the documentation referred to in art. 78 and verify the documentation referred to in art. 78 a.s.; (b) in para. 2 words as the data on their storage and trading premises and the list of categories of medical devices shall be entered in the register under art. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 in respect of the products referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 4 The Drug Executive Agency shall assess the documentation to the application for a modification of the authorisation under Article 4. 79, para. 2. The Executive Director of the EAL shall grant authorisation to change the authorisation under Article 3. 79, para. 2 or a reasoned refusal within 14 days of the date of submission of the documentation under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 5. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 127a: Art. 127a. Who violated the provision of art. 30a, para. 3, is punished with a fine of between 2000 and 6000 BGN The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 86, which shall become § 77: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on People with Disabilities (prom., SG No. ...), in art. 73 para. 4 is amended as follows: The funding mechanism and the standards under para. 3 shall be determined by the ordinance referred to in Article 3. 45, para. 9 of the Health Insurance Act and with the ordinance under art. 30a, para. 4 of the Law on Medical Devices, and the mechanism for providing the Rules of Application of the Law. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 78: ...... 78............................................................................ (1) The regulations governing the application of this Law, the Health Insurance Act, the Medical Products Act and the Disabled Persons Act shall be adopted, respectively, and shall be issued and brought into conformity within three months of the entry into force of this Law. (2) Until the adoption, respectively, the issue and alignment of the regulations under para. 1 shall apply the regulations in force insofar as they do not conflict with the relevant law.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u81	Statements? I can't see. First, I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Valentina Naydenova. Vote 89 MPs: 7 against 77, abstention 5. The offer is not accepted. I now put to the vote the version of § 85, which becomes § 76; the version of § 86, which becomes § 77 of the Commission Report, and the new § 78. Vote 89 MPs: for 86, against 3, no abstention. The proposals have been accepted. Moving on to the just shifted point: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR LOCAL SELF-ORGANIZATION AND LOCAL ADMINISTERATION. The representatives of the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria and the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria are representatives of the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria and of the Republic of Bulgaria. Mr. Vesselinoff, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u82	I don't have a map. Can you turn on the time?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u83	Find Mr. Veselinov's time, he's got no card.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u84	Mrs. Chairman! ♪ I can't believe on a draft law supplementing the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration, No 054-01-61, submitted by Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs, and a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration, No 054-0-63, submitted by Iskren Veselinov, Emil Hristov, Alexander Nenkov and Mladen Shishkov At a regular meeting held on 15 July 2020, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed the Draft for Supplement to the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration, No 054-01-61, submitted by Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs on 1 July 2020, and the Draft for Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration, No 054-01-63, submitted by Iskren Veselinov, Emil Hristov, Alexander Nenkov and Mladen Shishkov on 9 July 2020. On behalf of the importers, the first bill was presented by Mr. Alexander Nenkov. The Bill proposes to allow municipal councils, except in cases of declared emergency, to hold remote meetings, ensuring direct and virtual participation in compliance with the requirements for quorum and personal voting or to adopt decisions in absentia. The second bill was presented by Mr. Honest Veselinov. The bill aims to solve practical issues related to conflict of interest and problems for presidents of municipal councils and municipal councillors. It is proposed not to be considered that there is a private interest for the municipal councillor, including the chairman of the municipal council, in participation in the preparation, discussion and adoption of the municipal budget and the remuneration of the mayors, the chairman of the municipal council and municipal councillors. It is also proposed to waive the provision under which a municipal councillor may not be a sole trader, partner, shareholder, member of a management, supervisory or control board of a commercial company which has concluded contracts with the municipality in which he is a municipal adviser, as well as with commercial companies with municipal participation or with municipal enterprises. The Commission provides opinions from the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria and from the National Association of Presidents of Municipal Councils in the Republic of Bulgaria, expressing strong support for both laws. During the discussion the MPs supported the need for the proposed changes in both laws. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government shall: - with 12 votes "for" and 5 votes "abstained" propose to the National Assembly a draft supplement to the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration, No 054-01-61, submitted by Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs, to be adopted in the first vote; - with 12 votes "for" and 5 votes "abstained" propose to the National Assembly a draft amendment and supplement to the Law on Local Government and Local Administration, No 054-01-63, submitted by Iskren Veselinov, Emil Hristov, Alexander Nenkov and Mladen Shishkov, to be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u85	Thank you. Posts of importers? There aren't any. I'm opening the debate. Statements? Would anyone like to speak to you on the left? [[(Laughter and applause from GERB, a reply from GERB: There is no one from BSP!]] Statements? I don't see anyone willing to speak. [[Applause from GERB.]] I put to the vote a bill supplementing the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration, No 054-01-61, submitted by Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs on 1 July 2020. Vote 89 MPs: for 86, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the second Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration, No 054-01-63, submitted by Iskren Veselinov, Emil Hristov, Alexander Nenkov and Mladen Shishkov on 9 July 2020. Vote 87 MPs: 84, none, abstention 3. And this bill has been passed. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE. Who will present the Commission report? Mrs. Alexandrova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law on Supplement to the Law on the Judiciary, No 002-01-24, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 June 2020. At its meeting on 1 July 2020, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law supplementing the Law on the Judiciary, No 002-01-24, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 June 2020. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Danail Kirilov, Minister, Mr. Lyubomir Talev, Director of the Department of Law and Mrs. Daniela Belchina. The bill was presented by Mr. Kirilov, who pointed out that it proposes the creation of the Automated Information System "Unified register of property persons" by building up the existing register so far by providing a systematic approach to the selection of property persons. The new Automated Information System will be administered and maintained by the Ministry of Justice, and with its introduction the need to use the current register for monitoring and control of property persons at the Supreme Judicial Council will be removed. The proposed supplement will enable the pre-trial and judicial authorities to find quickly and easily skilled persons with the necessary special knowledge to draw up and present expert conclusions. The Minister of Justice added that the right of access to the information system and the data in the register will be dealt with in detail with a regulation issued by the Minister of Justice in consultation with the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council. The information system is intended to provide references, reports and analyses for the preparation of forecasts related to the demand and supply of expertise by property persons, as well as data to take into account the residence of property and the needs of relevant judicial areas. The single register of property will maintain an electronic data file of the conclusions drawn by the persons concerned, thereby enabling information to be obtained on the expert focus of the expert and the periodicals in the preparation of the expert opinions. In the discussion of the bill took part the MPs Krum Zarkov and Christian Mitev. In response to Mr. Zarkov's question Mr. Kirilov clarified that the bill is not the subject of the creation of a rating system and aims to, on the one hand, unify the registers through the creation of a single information system and, on the other hand, to provide up-to-date information on the qualification of the persons and their expertise. Mr. Mitev expressed his support for the Bill and the proposed solution for unification in a single register of all property persons. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 14 votes for the Constitutional Tribunal, with no objection, and 7 votes abstentions, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for Supplement to the Judicial Law, No 002-01-24, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 June 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u87	Please, Mrs. Alexandrova, familiarize the MPs with the First Voting Report of the next bill with No 002-01-25. Importer of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law supplementing the Judicial Tribunal Act No 002-01-25, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 July 2020. At its meeting held on 8 July 2020, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law supplementing the Law on the Judiciary, No 002-01-25, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 July 2020. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Danail Kirilov, Minister, and Mrs. Daniela Belchina, State Expert at the Department of Law and by the Chamber of Private Judicial Contractors. Mr. Nedelcho Mitev, Member of the Council of the Chamber. The bill was presented by Mr. Kirilov, who pointed out that he proposed that the Ministry of Justice should build and maintain a single information system of judicial execution through which information on the movement of executive cases should be centralised in a database. The system is intended to be accessible to or outside any user in the territory of the country. The main objective of the bill is to provide centralized electronic access to data on the formation, movement and completion of executive cases as a beginning of the process of building an effective, secure and coherent electronic environment of the executive process. The aim is to improve efficiency and transparency in the work of enforcement authorities and to respond to the growing interest in access to electronic services. Mr. Kirilov added that the Ministry of Justice will be able to provide electronic administrative services to the participants in the executive proceedings in compliance with the requirements of the Law on Electronic Governance. Mr. Nedelcho Mitev noted that the Chamber of Private Judicial Contractors generally supports the bill by proposing in the Law on Private Judicial Contractors in art. 77a to create a new para. 2 under which private judicial contractors are obliged to enter data on enforcement cases on a daily basis in the Chamber of Private Judicial Contractors' integration platform. In the discussion of the bill took part the MPs Krum Zarkov and Christian Mitev. Mr. Zarkov pointed out that from the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria Mr. Mitev expressed his support for the Bill and the proposed solution for building and maintaining a single information system of judicial execution. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs unanimously with 20 votes for the Constitutional Tribunal, No 002-01-25, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 July 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. I'm opening the debate on both laws. Honourable Members, please sign up for the order of speech. Aren't there anyone who wants to make a statement? Does the opposition have a wish? In that case, I shall close the debate. I put to the vote a bill supplementing the Law on the Judiciary, No 002-01-24, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 June 2020. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. The bill has been passed. I put to the vote a bill supplementing the Law on the Judiciary, No 002-01-25, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 July 2020. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. The bill has been passed. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR UNDERSTANDING PROGRAMS. Mr. Nikolov, please come in. The stands are yours.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ? Report on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the The Law on Underground Treasures, No 002-01-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 April 2020, adopted at the first vote on 21 May 2020. The Act for the Amendment and Supplement to the Underground Capitals Act. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. The Commission proposes to create a new § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6 para. 1 is added at the end, which is a single underground management body. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer, but proposes that § 2 be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in a new § 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3 and shall replace the words of the applicant with a correspondence with the applicant. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u91	Honourable Members, you have the floor for speeches on the title of the Bill, as well as from § 1 to § 6 inclusive. Are there any speeches? I won't. Thank you. I shall put to the vote the name of the Bill; and § 1; new § 2; rejection of Paragraph 2 of the Report; § 3 by the version made; § 4 by importer; § 5 by importer and § 6 by importer. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u92	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 7 and shall propose the following wording: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 20 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2 the words of the single and single commercial companies whose capital is the sole owner of the State producing the underground assets shall be replaced by the shares of the sole owners. 2. In para. 4 the words "all recorded discoveries of holdings of own funds' shall be replaced by "all fields of underground wealth established as a result of geological research activities carried out, with proven and established stocks or stocks and resources for which geological reports have been drawn up and brought to the National Geological Fund, including the findings of the holdings'. 3. In para. 5. (a) in the text before t. 1, after the words "In the register', the openings shall be added to the register. (b) c. 1 the words "to the public procurement' shall be replaced by the words "to be awarded' under the Order of the Public Procurement Act'. 4. In para. 6 the request for registration of a discovery has not been submitted within the time limit shall be added. 5. In para. 7 the words "Saves and/or Resources" shall be replaced by "Saves or Resources" and "Saves and Resources." 6. In para. 9 words.............................................................................. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in 7. A new para is being created. 11: The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 4 (2). 7 examines and adopts geological reports for the recalculation of reserves or reserves and resources of underground wealth prepared by concessionaires after a post-study under art. 34, p. 3 within the limits of the field. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 21 the following 1. In para. 2 words.............................................................................. 31, para. The information referred to in paragraph 1 shall be published in the Official 2. Paragraph 7 is amended as follows: The Minister of Energy or an official authorised by him within 15 days shall: 1. from the date of drawing up the minutes under para. 6 confirm it, carry out the registration and issue to the holder a certificate of geological discovery; 2. following the submission by the holder of an environmental impact assessment decision (EIA) issued under the Environmental Protection Act (EIA) approving the implementation or the decision not to carry out an EIA of the investment proposal for the extraction and primary processing of groundwater, the protocol under para. 6 shall carry out the registration and issue to the holder a certificate of commercial discovery. 3. In para. 8 is created t. 4. "4." there is one of the circumstances under art. 20, para. 6................................................ 4. In para. 9 words.................................................................................. 2 and 3 shall be returned to the holders and replaced by the holders. 2 or 3 shall be returned to the persons who have submitted them. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 10, and the words............................................................................................. 4s and 4s shall be replaced by the following: 22a, para. 4............................................................................................ The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22g is created The public shall be informed of any additional information relating to the permit under art. 22d, para. 4 became famous after publication under para. 1 and the information shall be made available on the website of the Ministry of Energy within 10 days of its knowledge.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u93	Do you have any statements under § 7 to § 11? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the text in accordance with the version of the Commission of § 7 to § 8; the text of the importer of § 9; the text of the importer of § 10 by the version of the Commission; § 11 by the version of the Commission. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u94	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12: ................................................................................... Article 23 is amended as follows: Art. 23. (1) Any natural or legal person or their associations may apply for a search and survey authorisation or for a survey or a mining concession. (2) The applicant shall not be admitted to the relevant proceedings for the granting of a search and investigation authorisation or for a study or a mining concession where there is any of the following grounds for exclusion: 1. an effective sentence by which the applicant or a member of his managing authority or supervisory authority, or a person having the power to represent, to take decisions or to exercise control of those bodies, is convicted of a criminal offence under art. Art. 108a, Art. 159a " 159d," art. Art. 192a, Art. 212, para. Art. 3, Art. Art. 240a, Art. Art. 248a, Art. Art. 253, Art. Art. 253a, Art. 253a. Art. 254b, Art. 301.. 302a, art. 304 " 305a," art. Art. 307, Art. 307 Art. 321, art. 321a of the Criminal Code, or a sentence or other act of similar crime entered into force in another Member State of the European Union or a third country; 2. a judicial or administrative act which has been established that the applicant has failed to fulfil obligations within the meaning of art. 162, para. 2 of the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code and their interest in the Republic of Bulgaria, or similar obligations under the legislation of the country in which the applicant is established; 3. an act imposing an administrative penalty under this law entered into force for the last year prior to the application for authorisation to search and study or for a concession for extraction; 4. the failure of the applicant to fulfil an obligation under a contract to grant a concession for the extraction of underground wealth which led to the termination of the contract concerned; 5. registration of the applicant or associated persons in a jurisdiction with preferential tax regime within the meaning of § 1, item 5. 64 of the additional provisions of the Corporate Income Tax Act; 6. declared bankruptcy or liquidation or open insolvency proceedings of the applicant or there is a similar procedure under the law of the State in which it is established. (3) The circumstances of para. 2, p. 1, 2, 5 and 6 shall be certified by a declaration. About the existence of circumstances under para. 2, p. An official inspection shall be carried out 3 and 4. (4) Reason for exclusion under para. 2 shall not apply where: 1. in the cases under para. 2, p. 1 the person concerned has been rehabilitated as well as when they have expired or until the relevant proceedings have been completed will expire 5 years after the punishment has been imposed and the applicant has provided evidence that the compensation due for the damage resulting from the offence has been paid; 2. in the cases under para. 2, p. 2: (a) have expired or will expire 5 years after the entry into force of the act concerned and the applicant has provided evidence that he has fulfilled the obligations, including accrued interest or fines, or (b) the period referred to in point (d) is not over, but the applicant has provided evidence that: (aa) has fulfilled his obligations by paying, or that a deferral, deferral or security has been allowed, including accrued interest or fines; or (bb) is informed of the exact amount of obligations due following the infringement at a time when it has not been able to take a measure under the letter............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 3. in the cases under para. 2, p. 5 the applicant has provided evidence that there is one of the circumstances under art. 4 of the Law on Economic and Financial Relations with companies registered in jurisdictions with preferential tax regime, their controlled persons and their actual owners. (5) Before the conclusion of a search and investigation contract, either for a study or for a concession, the person designated as the owner or concessionaire shall provide the Minister of Energy with documents certifying the absence of circumstances under para. 2, p. 1, 2, 5 and 6. Documents shall not be provided where the information on the circumstances under para. 2, p. 1, 2, 5 and 6 shall be accessible through a public free register, or access to it shall be provided by official means. (6) Paragraphs 2 and 4 shall also apply to each of the participants in the merger. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 23a: Art. 23a. (1) The applicant for the grant of a search and survey authorisation or for a survey or extraction concession shall comply with the minimum requirements for financial, technical and professional opportunities required to carry out the activities provided for in the work programme or in the development plan of the field of exploration under the right of search and exploration authorisation or for exploration, or of a concession for extraction, or defined in the contest papers or in the auction papers in other cases. (2) For proof of financial, technical and professional opportunities, the applicant may use the resources of a third party when he proves that there is no grounds for exclusion under art. 23, para. 2, including that when carrying out the search and research contract, or for research, or the concession contract, the resources of the third party will be available. (3) The financial capacity of the applicant shall provide financial resources necessary to carry out the authorisation activities or to carry out the concession activities for no less than 5 years from the entry into force of the concession contract, including payment of concession payment, and shall be demonstrated by one or more of the following documents: 1. certificates by a bank or credit institution; 2. annual financial statements or parts thereof; 3. evidence of the commitment made by the third party to provide the necessary financial resources in the performance of the relevant activities. (4) The technical capabilities of the applicant shall provide the assets necessary to carry out the authorisation or concession activities and shall be demonstrated by one or more of the following documents: 1. a contract or other document certifying the required technical capabilities; 2. an extract from the relevant accounts. (5) The professional capacity of the applicant shall ensure the participation of persons responsible for carrying out the authorisation or concession activities, sufficient in numbers, with qualifications and experience in the field of geology and/or mining in order to ensure the quality performance of the activities and shall be demonstrated by the provision of: 1. a contract or other document demonstrating the obligations undertaken by the persons to carry out the activities of the authorisation or concession; and 2. professional CV. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24 para. 1 is amended as In the case of a natural or legal person or a legal person or their associations for which there is no grounds for exclusion under art. 23, para. 2 and meets the requirements of art. 23a, para. 1 may receive more than one permit or concession for extraction. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 15: ...... 15.................................................... Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 24a and 24b: Art. 24a. (1) A given area may be granted more than one search and survey permit or study or more than one extraction concession, provided that they are granted for different groups of underground riches, the activities under one authorisation or concession shall not interfere with the performance of the activities under another authorisation or concession and consent has been obtained from each acting owner or concessionaire. (2) The Council of Ministers may, on a reasoned proposal by the Minister of Energy, adopt a decision to limit the issuance of search and survey permits or to study the common underground wealth for a specified period. Art. 24b. The productions for the granting of search and research and exploration permits and extraction concessions shall be carried out in accordance with the principles of transparency, publicity and competition.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u95	Are there any statements under paragraphs 12, 13, 14 and 15? I can't see. We are voting on paragraphs 12, 13, 14 and 15 as amended by the Commission. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. Paragraphs 12 to 15 have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u96	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17, as in para. 1, t. 1 words for the management shall be replaced by the management. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18 as in para. 1, t. 4 the word "supplied' is replaced by "supposed'. The Commission proposes to create a new § 19: "Seriously, I'm In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 28, p. 4 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 19, which shall become § 20: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 29 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1. 2. They're creating an al. 2 and 3: When the conditions laid down in para. 1, t. 1 and 2 are implemented, directly to the concessionaire for the extraction of an open field can be determined and: 1. the holder of the sole trader, at the death of the natural person, of the sole trader, and the taking over of the undertaking by his successor; 2. the recipient of the company, in the event of a change of its legal form, merger or infusion; 3. the beneficial owner of the commercial company, in the case of separation and separation which, under the contract or conversion plan, acquires the rights and obligations of the holder of the authorisation; 4. the acquirer of the commercial undertaking upon transfer of an undertaking. (3) In the cases under para. 2 An application for a concession by law may be submitted within the period under para. 1, t. 3 and by the beneficiary concerned who acquires the rights and obligations of the holder of the authorisation. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 20, which shall become § 21: .................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 31 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: For underground wealth under art. 2, para. 1, t. A study authorisation shall be granted for up to two years. 2. A new para is being created. 4. After the expiry of the time limits laid down in para. 3 the period of authorisation to search and study or to study underground riches under art. 2, para. 1, t. 3 in the continental shelf and in the exclusive economic zone of the Republic of Bulgaria in the Black Sea may be extended up to two years, provided that the holder has implemented the work programme for the time limits under para. 1, t. 1 and para. 3 and submitted a reasoned proposal with a work programme for the duration of the call. 3. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 5 and in it the words by para. The following shall be replaced by the following: 3 or 4................................................................................................. 2, para. 1, t. 1....................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21 which shall become § 22. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22, which shall become § 23, in c. 2 the word "may' is replaced by "may'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 23, which shall become § 24, in c. 5 the words "underground wealth" shall be replaced by "underground wealth."
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u97	You have the floor for speeches under paragraphs 16 to 24. Are there any speeches? I can't see. I'm calling off the debate. I put to the vote the amendments of paragraphs 16, 17, 18; § 19, which becomes § 20; § 20, which becomes § 21; § 21, which becomes § 22; § 22, which becomes § 23, and § 23, which becomes § 24. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u98	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 24, which shall become § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 36 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The concession period may be extended at the reasoned request of the concession holder, made no later than one year before the expiry of the concession based on a land development plan and a financial and economic justification for the duration of the extension, provided that at the date of submission of the request there are stocks or stocks and resources and the concessionee has fulfilled all its obligations under the contract, except for the final liquidation activities of the mining establishment and the recalculation of the land concerned. The total duration of the concession cannot be longer than 50 years. 2. They're creating an al. 3 and 4: Where the established stocks or stocks and resources are not seized and the remaining stocks or stocks and resources are not sufficient to grant a new concession to another trader in view of the profitability of the investments to be made, the type of infrastructure available and its property, as well as the accessories to the concession, at the reasoned request of the concession holder, may be extended to 10 years after the expiry of the total period and subject to the conditions laid down in para. 2. The period shall be determined according to the residual stocks or stocks and resources in the field and the average annual yield provided by the concessionaire, which shall not be less than that achieved during the concession at least annual yield. (4) In the cases under para. 2 and 3 for the duration of the extension the contract shall be aligned with the rules in force, including clauses on the amount of concession payment, the type and amount of liability for non-compliance with the obligations under the contract, the conditions and arrangements for making the payments due.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u99	Statements? Mr. Ermenkov, please come in under § 24, which is proposed to become § 25.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u100	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am referring to this paragraph and, in particular, to the subparagraph, which allows for further extension of the concession period by another 10 years. We understand that this is in order to enable those enterprises that currently operate such mines and use such natural resources to continue their activities. Unfortunately, however, there is no clarity and criteria in the text tabled to determine exactly what it means to do something that is appropriate or not to do either as having resources or as an economic situation. We believe that this will cause problems instead of solving this problem. We understand that this needs to be done in some form, but we cannot agree with the way it is done. We will therefore abstain from voting on this paragraph. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u101	Thank you. Replies to Mr. Ermenkov's statement? I can't see. I put to the vote § 24, which becomes § 25. 88 MPs voted: 80 against 1, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u102	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 25, which shall become § 26. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 26, which shall become § 27: "The Bible says: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 39 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2: (a) point 1 is repealed; (b) c. 3 words.............................................................................. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in (c) create a t. 5. It's five o'clock. by right of state enterprise under art. 62, para. 3 of the Commercial Law carrying out non-economic activity or whose activity constitutes a natural monopoly only for underground wealth under art. 2, para. 1, t. 5, subject to the cumulative fulfilment of the following conditions: (a) the possibility of granting the concession is provided for by the law with which the State undertaking is formed; (b) on the site of the concession is situated the property of the public state property granted for the management of the State undertaking; (c) the obtained underground wealth will not be used to exchange the market and the State-owned enterprise acquires and uses the underground wealth solely to carry out the activities of its natural monopoly activity; 2. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: supposed to search and study or to study in an area with underground wealth under art. 2, para. 3 or in an area which includes and/or affects a locality with a registered commercial discovery for which no application for concession has been submitted within the term of art. 29, para. 1, t. 3 shall be made available only by auction for the same group of underground assets. 3. The creation of para. 4. A concession for mining in a field with underground wealth under art. 2, para. 3 or in a locality with a registered commercial discovery, for which no application for concession has been submitted within the term of art. 29, para. 1, t. 3 shall be made available only by means of an auction. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 27, which shall become § 28, in the text prior to that. 1 the words.................................................................................................... 2 the word "may" shall be replaced by "may" and the word "s" shall be deleted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 28, which shall become § 29.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u103	Do you have statements about paragraphs 25 to 29 included? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm calling off the debate. We vote § 25, which becomes § 26 by importer; § 26, which becomes § 27; § 27 becomes § 28; § 28 becomes § 29. Vote 92 MPs: 90 against 1, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u104	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 29, which shall become § 30: 30. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 43 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The procedure for granting a search and survey authorisation or for an application study shall be opened within three months of its submission. The Minister of Energy refuses to open proceedings in the cases referred to in art. 26a, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 2. In para. 3: (a) the text before t. 1 is amended as follows: In the cases referred to in art. 39, para. Art. 3 and Art. 42, para. 1, t. 3 proceedings shall be opened by order of the Minister of Energy. The order shall specify: (b) point 1 is amended as follows: "1." the scope of the authorisation, the area, the underground wealth group and the period for which the authorisation is granted; (c) a new item shall be created. 6: It's six. the minimum requirements for financial, technical and professional capabilities and documents under art. 23a proving their execution; (d) the so-called t. 6 is going to be t. 7. 3. Allinei 5 and 6 are canceled. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 30, which shall become § 31. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 31, which shall become § 32: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Article 45 is amended as follows: Art. 45. (1) A tender for a concession shall be held on a business initiative or on application by a natural or legal person or their associations to the Minister of Energy. (2) Procedure for granting a concession by tender for an application shall be opened within 6 months of its submission. The Minister of Energy refuses to open proceedings in the cases referred to in art. 26a, para. 2. (3) The tender procedure shall be opened by decision of the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Minister of Energy. (4) The proposal of the Minister of Energy under para. 3 contains reasons for its legality and appropriateness, formed on the basis of concession analyses, including environmental, financial and legal analysis, which comply with the requirements set out in Annex No 1. (5) With the decision under para. 3 are defined: 1. the object of the concession and concession area; 2. the duration of the concession; 3. the terms, fundamental rights and obligations of the concession; 4. the period for holding the tender, which may not be shorter than 45 days and longer than 90 days from the date of the promulgation of the decision in the Official Journal of the European Union, and for concessions for the extraction of oil and natural gas, may not be shorter than 120 days and longer than 180 days from the promulgation of the decision in the Official Journal of the European Union; 5. the time limit for the purchase of the tenders; 6. the period within which the tender documents are accepted; 7. the amount of the deposit or the guarantee to participate in the tender; 8. minimum requirements for financial, technical and professional opportunities and documents under art. 23a proving their execution; 9. other conditions. (6) With the decision under para. 3 The Council of Ministers empowers the Minister of Energy to conduct the tender. (7) The decision under para. 3 is published in the Official Journal of the State and published on the website of the Ministry of Energy and when the concession is for the extraction of oil and natural gas and in the Official Journal of the European Union. Where the concession is for the extraction of oil and natural gas, within 5 working days of the promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union, the Minister of Energy shall forward the decision for publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 32, which becomes § 33, with the words "art." 43, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 43, para. 2 and 3s, the word "may" is replaced by "maybe" and the words "this publication" are replaced by "the publication." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 33, which shall become § 34, by: "1." In para. 3 the words "sprotocol/protocol' are replaced by "sprotocol'; 2. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: By ordering the appointment of the Commission, the Minister of Energy may allow the chairman of the Commission to attract consultants. 3. In para. 5, t. 2 after the word "trade" shall be added with or with a person under art. 23a, para. the following point is inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009: 4. In para. 7 sentence first after the word "trade" shall be added with or with a person referred to in Article 7. 23a, para. The following points are inserted after point 2 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Implementing Regulation
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-16.u105	Thank you. Do you have any comments on paragraphs 29 to 33 included? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm calling off the debate. I put to the vote § 29, which becomes § 30; § 30, which becomes § 31; § 31, which becomes § 32; § 32, which becomes § 33; § 33, which becomes § 34. Vote 94 MPs: 91, against 2, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted. Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. We're closing today's work day. Parliamentary control messages on Friday 17 July 2020: 1. Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva will answer a question from MP Pavel Shopov. 2. Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova will answer six questions from the MPs Boriana Georgieva; Dragomir Stoinev; Nikolai Ivanov; Vessela Lecheva; Lubomir Bonev; and Kolyo Milev. 3. The Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will answer a question from the National Representative Georgi Turnovalyski and a question from the National Representative Kristian Vigenin. 4. The Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov will answer a question from the MP Kolyo Milev. 5. Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov will answer four questions from the MPs Rumen Gechev; Dora Yankova; Georgi Gokov; and Dimitar Danchev. 6. The Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev will answer two questions from the MPs Dragomir Stoinev; and Vessela Lecheva. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, delaying replies by seven days have requested: - the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to three questions from the MPs Plamen Hristov and Boryana Georgieva; Valentina Naydenova; and Georgi Mihailov; and to one question from the MPs Dora Yankova, Desislav Taskov and Kristina Sidorova; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova of a question by the MPs Tsvetan Topchiev and Philip Popov; - Minister of the Interior Mladen Marinov to a question from the National Representative Todor Bajchev; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Desislava Taneva, one question from the National Representative Smilyana Niva; - the Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev to a question from the National Representative Rumen Gechev; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva to a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov Due to the exhaustion of the agenda, I am adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
