ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Honourable Members, I propose to your attention a change in the agenda of the National Assembly. On the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that it be included in the Programme for Work of the National Assembly the following additional item: First vote of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Regional Development. Importer is the Council of Ministers. I propose that it be the first item for tomorrow's plenary session.. Friday, 31 January 2020 the parliamentary control provided for this sitting will begin immediately after the vote on this point has been concluded. Please vote. [[Noise and lines regarding a technical problem in the electronic voting system.]] Mr. Kanev has a problem. I guess it's a big problem because he's raising both hands. [[Noise and lines.]] We're waiting for the coworkers to vote. They voted 216 MPs: 129, against 58, abstention 29. The motion is accepted. The way you're holding it, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I appeal to you with a sincere request that you take any measures for the voting system. It's not Peter Kanev's problem, as you said earlier. It's Mrs. Karayancheva's problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u3	All right!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u4	That is why we have elected you head of the National Assembly. If we can't settle other issues, at least the technical ones should be right. With a big request and a real urge not to hit the consoles like... not to explain what.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u5	Well, don't push. Gently touch them.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u6	Well, let's not push, but the problem is you, not the MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u7	Okay. Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. I understand what you mean.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u8	Among all the other major issues you resolve during the day, find time to resolve this small, insignificant issue of voting by the MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u9	This is an extremely important matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u10	Our job is to be in the Chamber, and yours is to provide us with voting conditions.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u11	I will inform the Conference of Presidents of the problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u12	Not to inform the Conference of Presidents, you do it!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u13	Colleagues, I announced yesterday that we will vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada, on the one hand, and the European Union and its Member States, on the other, signed on 30 October 2016 in Brussels, as the fifth point in today's meeting. I propose that this vote, on a proposal from the Conference of Presidents, pass as the first item today. Please vote on the proposal I made. Vote 215 MPs: 178, against 25, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, I put to the first vote the Law on the ratification of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada, on the one hand, and the European Union and its Member States, on the other hand, signed on 30 October 2016 in Brussels. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 28 June 2019. Vote 215 MPs: 110, against 98, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. [[Heckling]] Mr. Veselinov, will there be a negative vote? No. Thank you. [[Heckling]] There's still gonna be one. Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u14	Madam President, honourable Members! The Group of the United Patriarchs is voting against the proposal for ratification of the SETA, as this is our deep ideological belief. This way of making a policy under the dictation of international capital of a denied liberal ideology is wrong for us. We believe that today is not a good day for Bulgarian democracy. Today we created another threat to Bulgaria, to the Bulgarian business, to the Bulgarian working people in the name of only a small group, which is often internationally called oligarchy. We will continue to defend ourselves as opposers of this way of making politics. We call on the Bulgarians to wake up, to be more active because there is a second reading of this bill. This second reading must be overcome precisely through public activity, because the consequences for Bulgaria can be extremely adverse. I also call on all those who have pressed the green buttons today and cast their voice at first reading for this bill to reconsider, because some of the things that we are voting in this House do not always understand them, but are extremely important. Read what is written about SETA, about this way of doing international trade, see that the Bulgarian national interest is not protected and in the next vote reconsider your actions!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov. Another negative vote? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u16	Thank you. Mrs. Chairman! The parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria is very strongly against the ratification of this treaty. Our position is consistent in time. We have repeatedly expressed our concerns because Bulgaria's national interest is not protected in any way, and for us it is a priority. Thanks to the parliamentary group of BSP there will be a second reading of the ratification of this bill. Therefore, I call on those who have not supported the bill at first, when it comes to second reading, let us not support it, and secondly, in order to protect the Bulgarian national interest! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] My fellow Members, at the decision of the Conference of Presidents, I am giving 30 minutes' rest. We'll continue at 9:45. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u18	Honourable Members, we continue with the first item of today's agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO APPROVE THE ACTION OF THE TEMPORARY ANCETAL COMMISSION FOR THE LEARNING OF ALL DATA, FACTS AND ASSISTANCES IN THE EUROPEAN AND BULGARIAN MEDIA TROUBLE FOR THE SCANDAL UNDERSTANDING FOR THE ACQUISITION OF BULGARIAN CIVILITY. Yordan Tsonev was the importer on 23 January 2020. Mr. Tsonev, you're welcome to present the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u19	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, the extension of the deadline is the dictation of the Commission's decision to present a comprehensive analysis... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u20	Please be quiet in the room, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u21	...and legislative proposals to solve the problems that have arisen in this area. Last week we received proposals from Vice President Yotova, who we want to discuss with the Commission and possibly implement in the text of the proposals. We therefore ask you to extend the deadline so that we can handle this task. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u22	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Statements, coworkers? I can't see. I'll introduce you to: Project! DECISION extending the period of validity of the Temporary Committee for the Study of All Data, Facts and Circumstances on the occasion of the allegations of the scandalous bribery scheme in the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship by foreign nationals The National Assembly on the basis of art. 37 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED It extends the period of validity of the Temporary Committee for the Study of All Data, Facts and Circumstances on the occasion of the allegations of the scandalous bribery scheme in the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship by foreign citizens for one month. Please, voting mode. Vote 148 MPs: for 144, it does not mind, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next point: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO APPROVE THE ACTION OF THE TEMPORARY COMMISSION TO EXPERIENCE THE FACTS AND ASSISTANCES RELATED TO THE TRANSPONDANCE OF THE.OPERATION OF THE ARGUMENT OF THE BULGARIAN NATIONAL RADIO, AND TO THE COMPLAINTS OF politicAL POTUS ON THE MANAGEMENT AND JOURNALS OF THE BULGARIAN NATIONAL RADIO. Importers suppose Toma Tomov, Lachezar Ivanov, Aleksandar Simov and Ivan Chenchev, January 23, 2020. Mr. Bikov, present us the arguments for this proposal and read the draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u23	Madam President, honourable Members! I propose. Project! DECISION extending the period of validity of the Temporary Committee for the Study of the facts and circumstances related to the interruption of the broadcast of the program "Programme" of the Bulgarian National Radio, as well as the allegations of political pressure on the management and journalists of the Bulgarian National Radio The National Assembly on the basis of art. 37 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Continues the period of validity of the Temporary Committee for the Study of the facts and circumstances related to the interruption of the broadcast of the program "Programme" of the Bulgarian National Radio, as well as the allegations of political pressure on the management and journalists from the Bulgarian National Radio until 23 February 2020 inclusive. We want this extension because in the Commission's work we had a very long waiting period to receive three monitoring reports on the work of the Bulgarian National Radio and the Commission did not work during that time. I believe that we will manage and we will end the Commission within the time limit that you are now voting on us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u24	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. Colleagues, speeches? Mr. Chenchev, come in for a statement. As we climb Mr. Chenchev, colleagues, we will not rest. From now on, we'll work until 2:00, so we can get through the entire program.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u25	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, let me make a statement, albeit in the form of a statement. In fact, I would like to tell you that in addition to the monitoring that this committee is waiting for, and it is precisely for establishment...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u26	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u27	...to the truth about stopping the signal and whether there is political pressure, we wait and, of course, the Commission will be very grateful, as former Prosecutor General Sotir Tsatsarov said, when he came to a hearing with the Commission in one of its first meetings, then promised the Prosecutor's Office to provide the Commission with relevant data of checks and other means, even special intelligence what they say, so that we can specifically and precisely establish the truth and based on it, of course, to make the Report. So that's the other motive, Madam President, besides monitoring. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u28	Thank you, dear Mr. Chenchev. - What's the line? I can't see. Second statement please, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u29	Madam President, honourable Members!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u30	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u31	I take the floor as one of the initiators for the establishment of this Temporary Commission a few months ago. There is obviously some consensus that the work of the Commission, which I understand, must be extended. However, I wanted to draw your attention to something that I think is important and basically in terms of how Parliament works. In other parliaments, or at least what I've read about the American Senate, Congress, there are really extremely powerful committees. I have been involved in several temporary committees so far in my parliamentary practice and I would like to assure you that, unfortunately, I have almost always felt helpless. Now I understand that you are waiting for some testimony from the Prosecutor's Office and I understand that the Bulgarian prosecutor is not like an athletic general, which is being held in the US. But basically, if we want to raise parliamentaryism, we must bring to the point that in a parliamentary republic, a parliamentary committee must have the power and the power to force all authorities, including government, prosecution and everyone else, to respond quickly and within time. This is a real problem, which I do not address either to Mr. Bikov or to this committee, because the same problem I have experienced in a bunch of other committees when it turns out that including services, and it is not much of a secret service, but the NSA simply refuses to give information. They refuse to give information to a parliamentary committee in a parliamentary republic! That's what I'm telling you, it's a problem with our job. We, if we want not to continue to shrink the authority of Parliament, must find ways when these committees are being set up and key issues are put with the full responsibility of the parliamentary republic, to force all authorities to work quickly and within time. And if we want to validate the authority of the MPs, we need to do so so that we are talking about parliament, it is that power that they cannot escape. Not the DANS and not the D.A.'s office, and parliament should be the power to ensure the end result of justice and truth. This is the meaning of a parliamentary committee, especially of such a temporary committee, which is made for a specific purpose. So I took the floor to point out to you that this is a key issue and it is related to the previous one. We just need to change the way Parliament works if we want to keep up, but return confidence in it. That's one. And the second is that there is a problem with the infinitely long committees, we create them in a month, then they work for half a year. Does it turn out now that before we solve the problem with the previous radio director, we already have a new one? Because I hear there's clear doubts at the moment about how the new general director of radio is elected. Let's not turn out to be the next committee before we finish this one, because that is also a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u32	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. Here you go, Mr. Bikov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u33	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Mr. Kutev! A few details. First of all, we're not waiting for the Attorney General. The first hearing we made was with the then Attorney General, Mr. Sotir Tsatsarov. During this hearing he explained very thoroughly how far the investigation has reached. He gave several versions of what happened with regard to the interruption of the signal, gave several versions of what was happening, how much the D.A. could establish political pressure. So we're not in some kind of waiting position and we're not praying to the D.A. During this meeting, at which Mr. Tsatsarov was heard, he said he was ready at the end of the investigation, when the investigation was completed, to report again if he had anything new to say on the subject. During the last session at which we heard the parties on the issue, Mrs. Sylvia Velieva made a proposal, or rather asked because she has no right to make proposals, whether we will listen to the Prosecutor General again. I, as President of the Commission, made a commitment to come into contact with the current Prosecutor General, and I did so immediately. I asked if there were any new facts and circumstances regarding the investigation that the Commission should be aware of. I would have informed my fellow Members during the next Commission meeting, but since you are putting the matter to rest, I will inform the entire plenary. The D.A.'s office says they don't have any new facts or circumstances at the moment. By the way, indeed Mr. Tsatsarov presented extremely detailed and I think that everyone understands what this is about... we will describe this in the Report. Although there are no new facts and circumstances, I proposed to the Attorney General, if this committee completes its work, there is also a Permanent Committee on Culture and Media in which the Attorney General could be heard if he had anything to say. In general, this is the situation, and I do not believe that there is a reduced parliament in it at the expense of another institution. I think that in the Commission, all my fellow Members find a common language, and I think we will even come up with a report that will be unanimous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u34	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. Will there be a hole, Mr. Kutev? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u35	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Bikov, I deliberately tried to be tolerant of the Commission you are in charge of. I think I've asked principled questions. I haven't talked about the specifics here. Whether you come out with consensus is not very certain, but hopefully it will happen. The fact that you started with the Attorney General is right and well. The question here is to see the results of your committee. I do not give her an assessment because I have neither participated nor seen the results of it. I hope they are the ones we expect with the creation of the Commission. But I'm still telling you, it's a matter of principle here. The question is to what extent the National Assembly is able to force all the other bodies over which it is normally standing, because it is the parliamentary republic, to work in some sync and with the corresponding actions, so that it can be a guarantor of justice. I hope that this will become clear very soon, this committee that you are leading has led to these results, and it is not the only one that I hope every next one that is done in this way is done in a way that leads to results. Personally, so far, from the many temporary committees that I have seen, I have generally not seen a significant result at least not as I expect it. Usually they are done in a way that gives a bad result. I hope yours is different!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u36	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. Will there be a next statement? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Colleagues, we are voting on the draft decision, which was read by Mr. Bikov, to extend the Commission's period of action until 23 February 2020. Vote 165 MPs: for 164, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Moving on to item three of today's agenda: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE CONVERSIVE ORGANIZATIONS OF THE MEDICAL SISTERS, THE ACHES AND THE ASSOCIATED MEDICAL SPECIALISTS, THE EMPLOYERS AND THE EX-FARMACENTS. Importers "Cornelia Ninov" and a group of MPs on 11 September 2019 and Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on 10 October 2019. Mr. Alexandrov will brief us on both reports from the Health Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u37	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Word Organizations of Nurses, midwives and Associated Medical Professionals, Dentists and Assistant Pharmacists, No 954-01-67, submitted by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 11 September 2019. At its regular meeting on 21 November 2019, the Committee on Health examined and discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Word Organizations of Nurses, midwives and Associated Medical Professionals, Dentists and Assistant Pharmacists, No 954-01-67, submitted by Cornelia Ninova and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 11 September 2019. The meeting was attended by Dr. Boyko Penkov, Deputy Minister of Health, representatives of the word organizations in the field of health. The bill and the reasons for it were presented by Professor Georgi Mihailov. In his presentation, Professor Mihailov pointed out that this bill proposes the creation of independent thinking organizations of nurses, midwives, paramedics and medical assistants, rehabilitators and chiropractors to take into account the specifics of the individual professions, to adequately protect their professional rights and interests. The reasons for the bill argue that the regulation of new thinking organisations of medical professionals from separate professions allows for the adoption of their own codes of professional ethics and the exercise of control over their compliance; the establishment of rules for good practice in the exercise of each occupation; the conduct of continuing vocational training in the profession concerned; participation in the drafting of regulations relating to their activities, as well as other activities referred to in the Law. The opinion of the Ministry of Health was presented by Dr. Boyko Penkov. It takes the view that the Ministry is in principle in favour of taking measures, including legislation aimed at ensuring equality and representativeness of individual professions in the management bodies of their word organisation. Nevertheless, it should be borne in mind that the existence of a separate word organisation of certain medical professionals is governed by the specific administrative powers to be conferred on it by the number of persons exercising the profession and by the belonging of the speciality to the professional direction concerned. The company is wider than the concept of "Profession" and therefore there is no obstacle for several professions to be integrated into a word organization. Taking into account this fact, the Law has chosen the form of an association, i.e. the association of medical professionals from separate professions. In this way it is taken into account, on the one hand, the heterogeneous nature of professions in the professional field of health care and, on the other hand, the excessive breakdown of word organisations in the field of health. In view of the small number of persons exercising the professions, the assistant of the European Commission, the rehabilitator and the midwife, is not appropriate to the establishment of individual conditional organisations of these professions. It should be noted that the existence of a number of responsible health organisations would make it difficult to carry out activities which require representation of the individual organisations and also the provision of information necessary to the public authorities. Prof. Ilko Getov, Chairman of the Management Board of the Bulgarian Pharmacy Union; Mrs. Milka Vasileva, Chairman of the Management Board of the Bulgarian Dental Professionals Association; Mr. Stoyan Hristov, Chairman of the Bulgarian Dental Association; Mr. Alexander Alexandrov, Chairman of the Management Board of the Medical Assistants Association in Bulgaria; Mrs. Pavlina Gerina, Chairman of the Governing Council of the Association of Bulgarian Akusherks; Advocate Iva Todorova, Chairman of the Association of Physiotherapists Association in Bulgaria; Mrs. Maya Ilieva, Chairman of the Management Board of the Bulgarian Medical Nurses Association; Mrs. Daniela Burova Professor Georgi Mihailov, Associate Professor Georgi Yordanov and Dr. Desislav Taskov expressed support for the bill. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: the Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Word Organizations of Nurses, midwives and Associated Medical Professionals, the Committee on Health, proposed that the National Assembly not adopt, at first vote, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Word Organizations of Nurses, midwives and Associated Medical Professionals, dental technicians and assistant pharmacists, No 954-01-67, submitted by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 11 September 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u38	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. The second report is under the Law of the National Representative Iskren Veselinov. [[Heckling]] We'll watch them together, vote them separately.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u39	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Word Organizations of Nurses, midwives and Associated Medical Professionals, Dentists and Assistant Pharmacists, No 954-01-75, submitted by Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on 10 October 2019. At its regular meeting on 21 November 2019, the Committee on Health examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Word Organizations of Nurses, midwives and Associated Medical Professionals, Dentists and Assistant Pharmacists, No 954-01-75, submitted by Iskren Veselinov and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 10 October 2019. The meeting was attended by Dr. Boyko Penkov, Deputy Minister of Health, representatives of the word organizations in the field of health. The bill and the reasons for it were presented by Mr. Georgi Kolev. The bill proposes the creation of seven separate thought organizations and the current BAFSG to be a word organization of professional health care professionals, medical technicians, orthopedic technicians, masseuses with impaired vision and sanitary inspectors. A change of quota representation is proposed as well as the introduction into the Law of the concept of medical assistance, which is given a legal definition with the creation of a new item. 5 to § 1 of the Additional Provisions of the Law. The reasons for the bill note that there is no legal possibility in the current legal framework of imposing disciplinary penalties for infringement of professional, ethical or other rules concerning medical activities carried out by medical assistants, respectively by paramedics, as well as by the specific activities of other medical professionals. It is claimed that adequate professional registers are missing for the individual entities, which creates an inability to carry out comprehensive and adequate control of compliance with health legislation by qualified medical and healthcare professionals. The opinion of the Ministry of Health was presented by Dr. Boyko Penkov. It found that the concept of a medical professional is used narrowly, limited only to nurses, midwives, medical lab technicians, X-ray technicians, medical assistants and paramedics, rehabilitators, orthopedic technicians, visually impaired masseurs, dental technicians and assistant pharmacists. Medical specialists, dentists and pharmacists are thus excluded. In accordance with art. 183 of the Health Act The medical profession is exercised by persons having a diploma for completed higher education in specialties from professional fields "Medicina", "dental medicine", "Farmation" and "Health care." Incorrect to this concept are taken away and the chiropractors. In accordance with art. 1, para. 2 of the Ordinance on the uniform state requirements for the acquisition of higher education in the speciality of "Kinestherapies" for educational and qualification degrees "Bachelor" and "Master" from the professional field of "Society" are non-medical specialists who can work in medical institutions, but they find extensive professional realization also outside the healthcare system. The reasons for the inclusion in the Law of the Occupation are related to the lack of a word organization for this regulated profession, stating that this is contrary to § 4c of the Higher Education Act. The legal provision cited does not oblige each regulated profession to have a separate word organisation and the requirement for membership is an alternative and not cumulative condition for regulated professions. Negative opinions were received from the Bulgarian Medical Union, the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union, the Bulgarian Association of Health Care Professionals, the Bulgarian Association for Patient Protection, the Federation of Trade Unions in Health. Representatives of the Bulgarian Association of Assistant Pharmacists, the Bulgarian Association of Dentists, the Association of Medical Paramedics in Bulgaria, the Alliance of Bulgarian midwives, the Association of Physiotherapists in Bulgaria, the Association of Bulgarian Nurses and the Bulgarian Association of Medical Laboratorys spoke in support of the Bill. Professor Georgi Mihailov, Associate Professor Georgi Yordanov and Dr. Desislav Taskov expressed a position in support of the bill. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Word Organizations of Nurses, midwives and Associated Medical Professionals, Dentists and Assistant Pharmatists, No 954-01-75, submitted by Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on October 10, 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u40	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. Will there be an importer's motive? Here you are, Mr. Yordanov, on Mrs. Ninova's first bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u41	Madam President, honourable Members! The Law on Word Organizations of Nurses, midwives and Associated Medical Professionals, Dentists and Assistant Pharmacists in its current version regulates the activities of word organizations of health professionals, dental technicians and assistant pharmacists. Since its adoption in 2005, the Law has shown a number of shortcomings which adversely affect public relations related to the activities of medical professionals and individual regulated professions in healthcare. The Law regulates the existence of only one word organization "The Bulgarian Association of Health Care Professionals" to represent the interests of several regulated professions in health care: nurses, midwives and associated medical specialists, including medical lab technicians, X-ray labs, medical assistants, rehabilitators, paramedics, orthopedic technicians and facialists with impaired vision. Part of regulated specialists such as kinesitherapists do not even fall within the scope of the current law. Unification in the Law of medical professionals from several regulated professions under the general "specialists in health care' leads to neglect of these professions, even to the introduction of the term "specialist in health care', such as a profession on a global scale does not exist. There are real prerequisites for professionals from different professions not to be equally represented both in the management of the current word organization and before the executive bodies, their professional rights and interests not to be sufficiently protected, given their extremely diverse professional activity. At the same time, for the exercise of a regulated high-level profession of professionals from the relevant professional field for the implementation of which special recognition has been obtained by the State, there are no adequate professional registers for certain terms, which creates the inability to carry out comprehensive and adequate control of compliance with health legislation by qualified medical care and healthcare professionals in the form of health prevention, health rehabilitation and health promotion. This bill aims at overcoming inequalities by proposing the creation of independent thinking organisations of nurses, midwives, paramedics and medical assistants, rehabilitators and kinesitherapists to take into account the specifics of the individual professions, to adequately protect and to the maximum extent their professional rights and interests. The draft ensures the need for each regulated profession in healthcare to participate at expert level through representation of its own legally established word organisation, in the discussion and adoption of any initiatives and documents relating to the profession, basic and continuing education and specialization, recognition of qualifications and professional competences. The regulated new thinking organisations of medical professionals from different professions allow for the adoption of their own codes of professional ethics and the exercise of control over their compliance. The Law also includes kinesia therapists who pursue a regulated profession after acquiring higher education in a professional field of public health and will be able to be represented by a legal body according to their rights and legitimate interests. The project retains the status of the currently active word organization, which will represent medical professionals from regulated medical professions, which are not represented by independent thought organizations. The creation of responsible organisations of medical professionals from different professions does not affect either to aggravate in any way the executive authority and the management of the system in health care. The current regulatory framework does not relieve the functions of the relevant public authorities, such as the Ministry of Health, Regional Health Inspections, the Medical Audit Executive Agency and others, which will use a much greater resource to exercise control than if they are assisted by the resource of the word organizations, namely access to information on the relevant professional experience, qualification and competence to carry out certain activities. The proposed changes will lead to a strengthening of self-control by creating relevant rules within the word organisation, adequate registers and the possibility of continuing training and improving qualifications, which will facilitate the activities of the health administration and increase the quality of medical care and care. At the same time, greater stability will be introduced in public relations relating to the medical profession. This will overcome the pressing impression of inequalities, neglect and disregard for the professional rights and interests of professionals from regulated healthcare professions. They will be protected by their own word organization with management bodies, where representatives of the respective profession, selected under the order laid down in the Law, representing and defending to the maximum extent the professional rights and interests of their members in the name of good practices and patient care.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u42	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Mr. Vangelov, you're welcome to motivate your proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u43	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! The Law on the word organization of nurses, midwives and associated medical professionals, dental technicians and assistant pharmacists regulates the activities of word organizations of health professionals, dental technicians and assistant pharmacists. Some of the medical specialists, medical assistants and paramedics fall within the scope of the Law as associated. They pursue a medical profession after higher education with an educational degree of Bachelor's degree for medical assistants and professional Bachelor's degree and are in the professional field of health care. They have sufficient theoretical and clinical practical experience to ensure the acquisition of skills for carrying out activities in the field of emergency and primary medical care, replaced by the single state requirements, by their qualification and by the regulations of the Ministry of Health. Their functions and activities related to the provision of medical care are repeatedly beyond the concept of health care, as defined in § 1, item 1. 3 of the Additional Provisions of the Law on Word Organizations. As Associated with the Bulgarian Association of Health Care Professionals, their professional rights and legitimate interests do not have the necessary representation regarding both the specific health care and the qualified medical care offered by them. The lack of an equal and separate word organization of the specific professions of medical assistants, paramedics and other medical professions in the field of health care and health care is not in line with § 4c of the Additional Provisions of the Higher Education Act. One of the main signs of the medical and regulated profession is that its exercise implies membership in a professional organisation working to maintain a high level of professional professionals in the relevant professional field, for the implementation of which it has received special recognition from the State. Therefore, the lack of a separate word organization for medical assistants and paramedics, as well as other medical professions, leads to the inability to exercise self-control within their specific profession in terms of professional ethics and good medical practice. In the current regulation, there is no legal possibility to impose disciplinary penalties for infringement of professional, ethical or other rules on medical activities carried out by medical assistants, paramedics and by the specific activities of other medical professionals. This leads to a reduction in the quality of the medical and health activities carried out, to impunity of abuses in the exercise of the profession and to the division of professionals. The absence of adequate professional registers for certain terms creates an inability to conduct comprehensive and adequate control of compliance with health legislation by qualified medical and healthcare professionals. The normal gap aggravates the functions of the relevant public authorities, such as: the Ministry of Health, Regional Health Inspections, the Medical Audit Executive Agency and others, which use a much greater resource to exercise control than if they are assisted by the resource of the word organizations, namely access to information about the relevant professional experience, qualification and competence to carry out certain activities. Those who are not members of a word organization are very difficult to find responsibility or to be subject to health control, as the legal regulation of their activities is greatly reduced. Medical professionals in the professional field of health care are performing extremely diverse activities and placing them within a word organization does not adequately protect their rights and interests. The creation of responsible professional organisations will neither affect nor aggravate the executive power nor the management of the national health system in any way. Strengthening self-control in the exercise of a regulated profession, establishing self-control rules within the word organisation and registers will facilitate the activities of the health administration, increase the quality of the services provided, bring greater stability to the relevant public relations related to the medical profession. The legal framework will include all persons exercising a regulated profession related to the application of qualified medical care and healthcare. Conditions will be created for maintaining up-to-date information for specialists exercising their activities to create ethical rules and rules for good practice in each specialty, including the same structure of each organisation. This will lead to an increase in the quality of the services offered and will facilitate control over them. In public relations, the diverse nature and interests of the various medical professions will clearly be taken into account and the shortcomings of the current legal framework will be overcome. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u44	Thank you, dear Mr. Vangelov. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u45	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Madam President, do you think it is normal today to consider three bills concerning healthcare and not a single representative of the Ministry of Health here in this Chamber? And what is the interest in health care in Bulgaria and in the hall at all? It's not normal for me. I don't know if it's normal for you guys, but... Especially for me, the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Word Organizations is fundamental because it concerns the performers of the activities in health care in Bulgaria. We have all witnessed in recent years an opposition between the individual organizations. And I would like to assure you, by also participating in the preparation of our proposal to amend this law, and the entire chronology of its development, and passing through the relevant committees, and the meetings with the individual representatives of the word organizations, that this is not Cornelia Ninova's Bill, and it is not Maya Manolova's. [[Replications from the National Representative Daniela Daritkova: "To Maya Manolova she is! "]] These are the words of the people who are actually involved in the health care of the Republic of Bulgaria, their wishes. And we do not want to hear the wishes of the people who carry out the medical work in Bulgaria, and with the decision of the Committee on Health we will hold them in this way. We don't separate them. There is even such a situation that the Association accepts only certain professions and associate them and the other professions do not accept them. How do we get out of this case? You, Dr. Daritkova, may not like our bill, do not like your coalition partners. You're the only one you like! You're self-sufficient. But what happens in health care, if it makes you laugh, it's not funny at all. You are constantly saying that, in order for things to happen in the country, there must also be political consensus. Here we again offer you a political consensus on a fundamental bill: to unite and give the professional individual units of Bulgaria's health care to have their own organisations; to prepare their own criteria, professional assessments, penalties; to hold their conventions legitimately. I trust my health colleagues. And to those who are interested in being separated, I am not behind their decisions. If you have morals and conscience, support the bill. If you have any comments, let's fix them between first and second readings. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u46	Thank you, dear Mr. Timchev. You have the floor for lines, colleagues. I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u47	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, honourable Members! The submitted bills for amendment and supplement of the Law on Word Organizations of Nurses, midwives and Associated Medical Professionals, dental technicians and assistant pharmacists are essentially identical and offer separation from the Bulgarian Association of Health Professionals of some of the medical professions and the establishment of individual opinional organizations for them. The reasons of the importers, as we have heard, are as follows: unequal presentation of the various professions in the Bulgarian Association of Health Care professionals; lack of adequate professional registers for certain terms; and the unequal level of protection of the professional interests of the individual professions. It should be noted that the concept of "complacent" is wider than the concept of "profession" and this allows, as is the case, several professions to be united into one word organization. The need for the existence of a separate word organization of certain medical professionals shall be determined by the specific administrative powers to be conferred on it; by the number of persons exercising the profession; by the professional's belonging to the professional direction concerned; and by other considerations relating to the appropriateness of that decision. In the Register of the Bulgarian Association of Health Care Professionals there are data on the number of different professions. The nurses are in more than half the other professions, and orthopedic technicians, for example, are only two. In view of the small number of persons exercising the professions, a paramedic assistant, a rehabilitator and a midwife, it is not appropriate to establish separate thinking organisations for these professions. The number of paramedics will continue to decrease as the training in this specialty was stopped in 1999. In 2018 30 medical assistants graduated and this is the first class in this specialty. The introduction of new thinking organisations should be based on a precise analysis of the number of persons, their territorial distribution, the activities entrusted and professional powers. Such an assessment cannot be made on the basis of the submitted bills. It is also not to be ignored that the creation of a word organisation by law cannot be compared to the registration of a non-profit legal entity to protect certain professional interests. The relevant organisations shall be specific legal entities at the border between public and private law. The Bulgarian Association of Healthcare Professionals performs its duties by creating functioning and representative regional structures in the country and recognizable central management, conducts, registers and controls the forms of continuing medical training of its members, has created a mechanism for equal representation of the different categories of specialists in the management bodies at national and regional level. Everything that has been said so far is in support of the thesis that no new thinking organizations should be created according to different relatively subjective criteria. The proposed changes will not lead to better regulation among medical professionals, but will rather create further chaos and disorder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u48	Thank you, Mr. Borisov. - What's the line? Here you are, Mrs. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u49	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I apologize that it will be a line, because for a minute or two we have listened to the praise of the Bulgarian Association of Health Professionals. I expected to hear more about the other side of this country, which applied for a worthy place, as new thought organizations, and we are wondering how to keep the status quo in Bulgaria. Guys, do you ask yourself the question: why did it come to this? He was right, Timchev, when he mentioned that this is not a Bill of Law of Maya Manolova, nor our Law of the present, and if someone wants to look at the future, yes, indeed the future is such that no one has the right to suppress, should give the opportunity to develop, and not by other primos to suppress the word organizations to be more and find their place. That's not the point. Now this is the situation with pressure, with different other primos, I think no one has succeeded. There will come a time, perhaps not until the end of this term, perhaps some other MPs, when these people, when they develop their potential as independent thought organizations, will come to the conclusion of what is on this building. So far, the Nurses' Association hasn't been very helpful for a number of reasons. I understand them. There's objective, there's subjective, I don't deny their work. But here comes a new generation that wants in a new modern way to continue its development. This does not mean that they will not work in common directions and at the same time does not mean that we will not be able to find common ground with them. Let the new air come to health care! Don't stop him, colleagues on the right! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u50	Thank you, Dr. Naydenova. Another line? Dr. Mihailov, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, distinguished guests of the discussion! I will repeat with just one sentence that we should probably apologize to you that really the interest in this problem is not appropriate to Parliament and the problems that exist in Bulgarian healthcare. I am far from thinking that the bills of ours and of our fellow Members of the United Patriarchs are perfect according to their legal structure. There are many questions that can be discussed, but we are currently being watched by these people who have made their demands within the last 11 "12 months. By neglecting their demands, by neglecting the Bill that raises their interest to the nation, we are not in harmony with the pulse of this nation and its attitude towards health problems. Therefore, I ask you, all of you, from your high bell tower as MPs, with your high sense of responsibility with which the Bulgarian citizens have sent you, to support the two bills, which one of you believes to be better than the other, so that we can truly between first and second reading, if there are imperfections, there were remarks and were absolutely appropriate on the part of the Ministry of Health and other agreed organizations to be cleared. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u52	Thank you. Third line? Hole, Mr. Borisov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u53	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I think, once again, I must say that the separation of part of the word organizations from the present Bulgarian Association of Health Care professionals will in no way improve their representativeness, nor will it protect their professional interests in a higher percentage. That is why we do not support the submitted bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u54	Thank you, Mr. Borisov. We continue with the speeches. You have the floor to speak. Here you are, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u55	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Yes, the bill on the separation of the Association of Health Care Professionals is not new. We have seen similar views in previous national meetings. Attempts to divide this organization have been made by individual representatives of the professions involved in the professional field of health care over the years for the purpose, in my opinion, only to satisfy personal power ambitions. This law has been a fact since 2005. Fifteen years the Bulgarian Association of Health Care Professionals builds structures, builds representativeness and has really managed to gain the trust of the institutions not only in Bulgaria but also in the international community, so in this sense all those who are involved in this organization have guarantees to be able to be protected. It is more important to argue that in fact this way of functioning of the Bulgarian Association of Health Care professionals guarantees the rights of patients because the main commitment of the word organizations is to monitor the professional integrity and professional development of their members. In this sense, the Bulgarian Association of Time Care Professionals has managed to build rules under which continuing medical training is developed and qualified all representatives of the different professional directions in this organization. You claim that there is no level playing field between the individual involved in this field of health care, professionals. And would breaking them into individual smaller thought organizations and individual settlements have one or two representatives of the profession, guarantee them representativeness, ensure good contact with the central authorities and guarantee the power of this organization? Do you think that by giving the slogan to the National Assembly as an example, you do not contradict each other because it is the combination of all these professionals in a common organization that gives them the power to defend their rights? Conscious organizations are not union organizations. They are not only fighting for better financial conditions and better working conditions. There's a lot more of them. The functioning of word organizations guarantees the rights not only of professionals but also of patients. We have here relatively consensually established a Law on the word organization of dentists and of assistant pharmacists who did not have such a word organization. That's why we had to, and here I think we were relatively united, to write down rules for these professional directions to function on. We have studied the logic that in the main areas of health care, there is a representative organization of both dentists, dentists and pharmacists, as well as the relevant support activities, as are professionals of health care, as are dentists for dentists and, respectively, assistant pharmacists in the Department of Pharmacy. That's the logic we've been following. I believe that all of us here should, on the contrary, hold on to this the word organizations that have already been established, which have been established, have the opportunity to decide their internal changes without involving the National Assembly. We gave them the legal framework. Anyone who is willing to take part in the relevant word organization has the opportunity because in the management of the Bulgarian Association of Health Care professionals there is a square representation of all professions that are included in this professional direction. More than that. Recently, the Slovenian organization held its fifth regular convention. At that convention, a decision was taken to develop the Statute of the Slovenian Organization, which provides for the establishment of special advisory councils on different directions. This gives even more guarantees that the different directions in the Bulgarian Association of Health Care professionals will be well protected enough. I really think that there is no way to support these bills, because they do not solve any problem of the word organizations, no problem of the health system, on the contrary they will create many others, and I believe that reasonable and responsible MPs will help to reject these laws, as I also believe that reasonable and responsible representatives of the relevant articles will understand that when they are united and benefit from the legal framework they have, they can much better protect their rights. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. A line? You both have an opportunity for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u57	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Dr. Daritkova, your words I would accept as the truth if we were now creating a Law on word organizations of health professionals. The main reason for this amendment to the Law is that the various professions we call general healthcare professionals are not satisfied with their interaction. They don't work in agreement. And really, what about the regulation of the profession of medical assistants or so-called paramedics? They have very specific features that obviously need to be solved by themselves. What about midwifes? They have claims of independent activity and so on. Rehabilitators are something else. It turns out that this basket, which is drawn like eagle, cancer and pike in different countries, cannot be headed by just one word organization, all the more so that it is dominated, if I may say so, by a profession of nurses who are the most in quantity. That is precisely why, in order for things to go forward, we must each assume our own future, so we propose to have separate consensus organisations.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u58	Thank you. Mr. Mihailov, here's a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Dr. Daritkova, with all due respect to you and to your parliamentary experience, how can you claim that the Health Care Association has fulfilled the health care services provided by you and by my esteemed associate associate Ivanov back in 2005 a bill that you implemented then, and in those 15 years Bulgaria has lost 30 000 nurses who have expired abroad; currently the huge percentage of nurses in Bulgaria are in retirement age; and they have been protesting for a whole year because their demands, quite fair, are not satisfied? Saying that this organization is doing its job, that it is developing, my God, that it is not responding to the truth at all and there is no one to believe you but the leadership of this organization. Listen to the time that's going on right now, to the problems it's putting on, otherwise we'll be going years ahead. You see, at the moment, colossal efforts have been made to reopen the intensive care unit of the Multiprofile Hospital for the treatment of children's diseases, and why can't it function? Because there are no sisters, Dr. Daritkova. And it's not just this department's problem, it's the whole country's problem. This problem comes from the fact that the organization that needs to protect the interests I am not saying that this is the only reason that this problem has not protected them in those 15 years. In this, people see that from this organization, from its glutton, its facade has no effect, so you should not say things that, unfortunately, in those 15 years do not correspond to the truth. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u60	Thank you. Is there a third line? A hole, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u61	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear replicating, very diverse were your lines with topics that had no direct bearing on the bill under consideration. According to the logic you follow, we must also divide the word organization of doctors, because obstetricians and general practitioners, surgeons and hematologists have nothing in common with their ideas and desires for the exercise of the profession. In this sense, I am not convinced that you understand what the Law means for word organizations. He is not concerned solely and entirely with the possibility of violent detention of the sisters in Bulgaria or of changing the working conditions under which they work. Yes, these rights of healthcare professionals are also protected, but it is more important to really carry out the functions that are for the regulation of the profession. That is why the established word organization believes that it has fulfilled its function over time because, on the one hand, it fulfils all the requirements assigned to it by the Health Act for maintaining electronic registers, for interaction with all the authorities that manage the healthcare system. Can you imagine from now on, if your bill is adopted and countless small thought organizations are created, how they will still deal with all these challenges, will deal with issuing certificates of professional qualification or certificates of departure abroad? In no case will this help those exercising these professions, but rather will confuse them, and I believe, and once again, that the National Assembly cannot deal with internal issues. Within the framework of the Law that we have given them, everyone has the opportunity and the right to stand up for their positions and rights and to fight for the governing bodies of this organization. Currently, within the Governing Council of the organization, seven representatives, three representatives from the midwife quota, two from the paramedic quota, two from the X-ray lab quota, and one member from the rehabilitator quota, i.e. in the management of this word organization, have found a way to reflect the interests of all those involved in the Bulgarian Association of Health Care professionals. I believe that the Law, as we have adopted it, deserves to be preserved and to continue to function in the way it has, and so far, of course, improved the care for individual representatives. I'll highlight something else. Either way, history has shown that it makes sense in this organisation because, for example, sanitary inspectors themselves have wished to be associated with this word direction, which means that only so united everyone feels that they can be better protected and defend their positions better.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. Statements? There are no other speeches. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Word Organizations of Nurses, midwives and Associated Medical Professionals, Dentists and Assistant Pharmacists with No 954-01-67, submitted by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Vote 166 MPs: 58, Against 56, abstention 52. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Word Organizations of Nurses, midwives and Associated Medical Professionals, Dentists and Assistant Pharmacists with No 954-01-75, submitted by Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. They voted 158 MPs: 61, against 32, abstention 65. The offer is not accepted. Honourable Members of the Parliament, on a proposal from the Conference of Presidents, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose to include the following additional point in the Programme for the Work of the National Assembly: Draft Decision on the definition of the conditions for negotiating a central course of leva to the euro pursuant to paragraph 2.3 of the European Union Resolution establishing a mechanism of exchange rates in the third stage of the Economic and Monetary Union Amsterdam, 16 June 1997, with importers of the people's representatives Daniela Daritkova, Valeri Simeonov, Iskren Veselinov, Valentin Kasabov, Krastina Taskova and Yordan Tsonev. I propose that this be item four for today's plenary session. Please vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u63	Vote 158 MPs: 117, against 29, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. PROJECT OF A DECISION TO DEFINIATE CONDITIONS FOR THE COORDINATION OF THE CENTRE CURS TO THE EURO UNDERparagraph 2.3 OF THE EUROPEAN UNION'S RESOLVEMENT OF THE MECHANISM OF THE CHANGED CURS IN THE THIRD ETA OF THE ECONOMIC AND MONETARY UNION OF AMSTERDAM, 16 June 1997 Colleagues, I will read the proposal, then I will give the floor for speeches. "Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 88, para. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, we are submitting a draft decision setting the conditions for the negotiation of a central course of leva to the euro under paragraph 2.3 of the European Council Resolution on the establishment of a mechanism of exchange rates in the third stage of the Economic and Monetary Union Amsterdam, 16 June 1997, with reasons for it. We ask the draft decision to be submitted for consideration and voting in accordance with the established order. Importers: Daniela Daritkova, Valeri Simeonov, Iskren Veselinov, Valentin Kasabov, Krastina Taskova and Yordan Tsonev. ? RESPONSIBILITY? laying down the conditions for the negotiation of a central rate of leva to the euro pursuant to paragraph 2.3 of the European Council Resolution on the establishment of a mechanism for exchange rates in the third stage of the Economic and Monetary Union Amsterdam, 16 June 1997 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, having regard to the intentions of the Republic of Bulgaria to join the Exchange Rate Mechanism (Exchange Rate Mechanism II) and to the Single Supervisory Mechanism by establishing close cooperation with the European Central Bank within the meaning of Council Regulation (EU) No 1024/2013 of 15 October 2013 conferring specific tasks on the European Central Bank concerning policies relating to the prudential supervision of credit institutions and the requirements of paragraph 2.3 of the European Council Resolution on the establishment of an exchange rate mechanism during the third stage of the Economic and Monetary Union Amsterdam, 16 June 1997. (97/C 236/03) and Articles 1.1 and 17.1 of the Agreement of 16 March 2006 between the European Central Bank and the national central banks of the Member States outside the Eurozone, laying down the procedures for the operation of the mechanism of exchange rates in the third stage of the Economic and Monetary Union(2006/ C73/08 ) underwhich , when the Republic of Bulgaria participates in the Exchange Rate Mechanism( Exchange Rate MechanismII ) negotiates a central rate between the euro andBGN HAS DECIDED 1. When negotiating a central rate of BGN to the euro pursuant to paragraph 2.3 of the European Council Resolution on the establishment of a mechanism of exchange rates in the third stage of the Economic and Monetary Union Amsterdam, 16 June 1997. (97/C 236/03), the Minister of Finance and the Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank offer, maintain and vote a position for a central rate of BGN 1.95583 for 1 euro. 2. The Republic of Bulgaria does not participate in the Exchange Rate Mechanism (Exchange Rate Mechanism II) at a central rate between the euro and BGN under the European Council Resolution establishing an Exchange Rate Mechanism during the third stage of the Economic and Monetary Union Amsterdam, 16 June 1997. (97/C 236/03) other than central course 1.95583 BGN for 1 euro. Importers are the MPs I already reported earlier. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Mr. Tsonev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u64	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, the Parliamentary Group of the We will, of course, support it, but before that, how it came to these two-day debates and what happened so that the Conference of Presidents had to be called up several times and worked in a time and overtime deficit regime. I will repeat what I said on behalf of the parliamentary group of the first Presidency Council. I turn to GERB and also to the Central Bank, although there are none here. Such a question as the currency board, such as Bulgaria's path to the Eurozone, is not a question of the competence of the ruling party or the ruling coalition because of the simple fact that there has been a consensus on this issue since the beginning of our membership in the European Union. On this topic, all the main political parties have said about...................................................................................................... Not only have they said, but in the years they have taken all the necessary steps and supported the relevant documents, laws, decisions and so on, and they are countless. Only those who are harmonious as requirements, we simply cannot list them. In the last few months, we've accepted several of these. Our criticism of the ruling coalition, in particular of GERB, is quite justified. The conditions for doubting the stability of the Bulgarian lev with this move were created. The negotiations that were being held, the talks on the way to the ERM mechanism, which is the initial phase of accession, had to be discussed with the other political forces, so that we could all together take this decision, to stand before the Bulgarian people with a solution that does not undermine, brings doubt and in no way hesitates the people in the course of BGN, because this trust was won very hard and at the cost of many victims of all people and of the entire political system of Bulgaria. This is our criticism of you because panic conditions have been created today. Let's not say there is one. There is no, thank God, but the conditions were created for doubt at least, so we had to, in an urgent order within 24 hours, the Bulgarian Parliament to come up with an act to defend the Bulgarian lev, to reassure the Bulgarian citizens and thus form the following task before us, we, at least by the DPS, understand it........................... to find a mechanism to continue Bulgaria's path to the Eurozone and at the same time do not question the course in which the lev was nailed to the euro through the mechanism of the currency board. Why did you have to do that? Bulgaria is the first country to apply for the Eurozone, in which the rate of the national currency is fixed by law. The other countries, for example the Baltics, who also applied for and introduced the euro, entered this mechanism with a currency board, but without a legal course. The ERM exchange rate mechanism itself, as we call it, the conditions for it provide that there will be no fixed rate because it is a floating rate mechanism. When a country enters this mechanism on its way to the euro, it is determined what rate it will adopt the euro. This is a probationary period during which fluctuations are monitored, market fluctuations of the national currency in question. So both we and the European Union were faced and we are still facing a precedent of the first country to take on a fixed exchange rate. The proposal made by coworker Stoyanova is, of course, the work of the lawyers from the European Central Bank and ours from the National Bank. This obstacle is formal, it does not allow the Member's report of compliance with the legal framework and the legal framework of the currency mechanism to be uniform, without obstacles. If it remains as it is, we agree with this because we have read the other documents, there is a formal reason why the report of conformity of the European Central Bank's legislation is not consistent, the consequence of which will be an end to our participation, on our way to the currency mechanism and hence to the euro. At the same time, however, we cannot afford in any way to jeopardize or indicate that the rate of leva to the euro, which is fixed with the currency board, will be changed, at least because it is not useful for the Bulgarian economy and Bulgarian citizens, but also because we all promised and continue to promise that the currency board will be preserved during this course until the introduction of the euro in Bulgaria. This task had to be completed within 24 hours. We believe that the solution in question solves this problem because, on the one hand, para. 3 which has been tabled and is to be adopted by the Budget Committee, respectively by the plenary, removes the contradictions in the legislation that prevent us from entering the ERM, and, on the other hand, with this decision, which is absolutely imperative for all authorities to implement, we give the negotiators a mandate not to deviate from the course 1.95583. With the first point of this decision, we oblige them to propose, maintain and vote on this position. To remind the Chamber that those involved in the process are the Minister of Finance and the Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank, whoever they are. The second part of this decision clearly and clearly states that if one of the member states of the Eurozone, plus Denmark, because these are the countries participating in the votes on this mechanism, proposed another course, Bulgaria immediately leaves the ERM exchange rate mechanism, which means that we are interrupting our path to the euro. This gives a clear signal to both our European partners and Bulgarian citizens that we want to enter the Eurozone, but not at all. If the price for our entry into the Eurozone and our accession to the euro is a change in the course of the Bulgarian lev to the euro, we suppose the Bulgarian National Assembly, with this decision we say that we do not want to pay this price, and we will stop our desire to join Bulgaria in the Eurozone. For this reason we support this decision, we believe that it gives the necessary solid guarantees that without a decision of the Bulgarian Parliament this course cannot be changed in any way by anyone. That's why I think we should all support him today. The legal questions about the conflict between the decision and the Law may have a basis, but one thing is certain: no one can fail to comply with this decision without violating the Constitution, because there is an explicit text: The decisions of the National Assembly are mandatory for implementation. "This answers the question of doubts: is this contrary to the Law, can it be surrounded, can't it? It cannot be surrounded without a new act of the Bulgarian National Assembly no one can change the course of BGN to the euro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u65	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonev. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Shopov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u66	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, it must have been more appropriate to wait a while, to hear the views of the two main political forces on which the solution depends. However, after I found out that BSP wondered for a long time about the above, in the Western Hall or the East, it was not a wonder about something else, but about the course lev Euro, where Bulgaria was to be accepted in the Eurozone. For me, this is a secondary issue, of course, important, but there is a much more important question, as we lawyers say, and it is: should we accept the euro at all or not? The saddest, most frightening thing is that the Bulgarian people in its huge integrity, the majority of them saw some polls: 52% are against the adoption of the euro, colleagues, somewhere around 20% are for the euro, others are wondering. And it can't be any other way. Obviously, this issue has already been determined for all of you in the Chamber, without a serious act of the Bulgarian National Assembly, from its publications to this point on, should we go to the Eurozone, that is, should we accept the euro, or should we not accept it?! Can you give me solutions, a debate on a parliamentary issue? Separate statements, yes, a partial but serious decision on this fundamental issue, which is an essential element of the sovereignty of a country for national currency or attachment to any other foreign currency, no matter what, until now there is no. All the governments here touchingly in the speeches before me has been said there has been a consensus of all the rulers so far, of all the administrations, of all the finance ministers, that we will go cheerfully to the Eurozone. No, there is no consensus, colleagues! On this issue, one single body can rule, and he, we can say, figuratively speaking, is no one but the sovereign. This issue is of the order of matters which can only be resolved with a referendum. In the years of the transition of some people in Bulgaria, they liked to adopt some or other crucial acts for the state with several votes, because one majority prevailed over another in the National Assembly, or a thematic majority was made, including part of the opposition or some MPs from a parliamentary group were bought, cut off, there were blue ants who joined a new majority, so fundamental questions were resolved in Bulgaria. Of course, I can start chronologically. I will give you an example on this topic: in 1996 part of our blue jumps in the UDF were against the board.. Policy, led then by the leader of SDS Ivan Kostov and the future, very soon became Minister Muravei Radev. Shortly before the UDF came to power, after the internal party coup, which happened then, were called to Washington, enlisted, returned here a quick law, one of the first board! And for twenty years now, we have not been able to rid ourselves of this evil. Other countries are long gone. We, a country of the European Union, continue to hold a fiscal reserve, a huge currency reserve, to observe some rules, some deficits. I don't have words! We've had this conversation a million times. I wonder about you, too, GERB and BSP. Both of you are supposedly expressing the positions of your constituents. How so far did none of you come out and say that you did not express any little doubt about giving up these last remnants, but small, last remnants of sovereignty that we still have the Bulgarians? And now that the market is closed, we'll be opening a stall. What if the euro was such a good thing, Britain would have accepted it a long time ago, Switzerland would have accepted it, many other countries in the European Union would have accepted it. There are countless doubts about this, but all this has not been debated. A group of odystic, liberal economists are constantly hanging on TV screens, going out in the newspapers and praising the euro as something given, something absolutely undeniable. There's a mantra that spins all the time. In Bulgaria there are serious economists who are stopped, neglected, they have been barricaded on the topic. They can't express the negative. To me, it's like a thorn in the side with a mighty leap. The thorn we're on the moment we're inflated, the thorn is the currency board. And entering the ERM is yoked! The word "jarem" is exactly that. Jarem, who we're going to draw from here... The minimum was two years, only it is not known if it will not be five and ten, and during that time the negatives that our economy, if it does not pull now, do not know when, we will bear the negatives of the restrictions that will be imposed on us by entering the ERM because it is not free. There will be some monitoring, there will be sanctions if we do not implement, in balance of payments deficits, budget deficits. All of this is a complex system of capitulation that we're going to take over again. Colleagues, the smallest question for me today is whether the course will be 1.95583 at the moment when we go in. I don't know, hypothetically the lawyers say a future uncertain event. That's not the big problem, the big question. If you want to be honest with your voters, see, correct your position and behave nationally. This is not the first time we have talked about this topic, we are talking about this topic at the dawn of its appearance in the Bulgarian political space. We have always been against this as Bulgarian patriots and nationalists because this is an element of our philosophy. As the only ideological party in Bulgaria, we have clear, undisputed, points of reference. Our actions, our reasoning, our messages to people are not social, liberal-conservative, Christian Democratic, socialist people or anything else. They are based on a healthy, verified criterion and this is the interest of the Bulgarian people. And nothing else! I declare to you that from now on this will become an increasingly serious topic. We will take the wills, the moods, we will respond to the attitudes of the Bulgarians, we will warn about the dangers that are to come, and as so far we will have received high and brave in society the problems, the issues on this topic. For many years, we have warned about what the currency board is leading us to. It will not be any different from now on. Therefore, fellow Members, I call on you all to take our hands and stop satisfying our desires, to show themselves somewhere, to beat their foreheads, to report bravely: "Hello, hello, Brussels, we are performing! " - Hello, hello, Moscow, listening and performing! Today, we have witnessed this shameful agreement with Canada............ it is the same. So I call on you... if we are going to go to such a responsible action and event, it is best to ask the sovereign. [[GERB's reply: "Search! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u67	Mr. Shopov, get it over with.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u68	I call on you to do so, there is a technological way, there is time to do so. As Parliament, we are not the ones in this Chamber who can resolve this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u69	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. - What's the line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Sabanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u70	Madam President, honourable Members! Everyone or most of the people in this room, I think they know where we're going. We're going to Euro! I think most of this room will support that. In the end, a doubt came from those who spoke to the National Assembly, who could change this decision? The National Assembly itself! Since the other thesis that has gone down is that some other majority will ever be able to change this decision and do whatever it wants. Since I am not a lawyer, at the risk of affecting a more sensitive part of the legislation, I will propose a point. 3 in this Decision shall be: The decision addressed shall be changed only by two thirds of the Members of the National Assembly. At the very least, we are all aware, even if this decision is to be appealed to the Constitutional Court, someone must still appeal to it................................ at the very least................................................ Secondly, a case will be created that will not pass between first and second reading and one day in the National Assembly. This is my proposal, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u71	Do you have it in writing?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u72	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u73	To create a new t. 3 to this proposal. You're making it official with two thirds... Further details on identity and specification of I'll put it to the vote. Colleagues, any other speeches? You're welcome to speak, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u74	(BSP for Bulgaria): Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Not that this is our cue, but I think that when we discuss this issue, regardless of the presence of Finance Minister Goranov this morning, he should be here in the Chamber to clarify some issues that will probably arise and arise during this debate. This debate is heard by Bulgarian citizens and it was logical, if there are concerns, which he already has, to bring some relief. It's really a shame that he's absent and I can't understand that approach. Along with saying that we ourselves do not understand the approach of the majority on such an extremely important issue, extremely sensitive for every Bulgarian citizen to work, to approach it this way. We cannot understand how such a serious change can be tabled proposals between the first and second votes for amendments to the BNB Act through the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Currency Act? How is it possible to submit decisions to the National Assembly early in the morning, which are also extremely important and concern issues for years to come, to discuss such a fire, to force parliamentary groups on the move to make such decisions without having the possibility of a calm analysis? When we discuss issues that affect the essence of the functioning of the Bulgarian state, namely a possible change in the exchange rate, after 25 years has not been changed, so on the move, in the dark, to make such proposals, is a really pathetic approach, I would call it. You are not entitled to this because you are thus compromising Bulgaria's idea of joining the Eurozone at all. Here to say that the Bulgarian Socialist Party has always supported both purely political and with its actions, with its votes, Bulgaria's approach to the Eurozone. We will continue to do so and will work to do so when Bulgaria is ready. What you are doing today and what you will continue this afternoon in the meeting of the Committee on Budget and Finance ruins the trust of Bulgarian citizens in this process. We have repeatedly raised this question.. about the way legislation is made in the Bulgarian Parliament in the case of a majority of GERB.. Citizens for the European Development of Bulgaria. More than once, these questions and these topics have passed, by the way, without hearing us, sometimes without even understanding the Bulgarian citizens. If you've been counting on this to happen, obviously that's not the case. We, as a responsible political force, believe that we should have, as we approach Bulgaria's preparations for joining the ERM II, in sufficient time to hold the talks with the parliamentary groups and the political forces that we represent here. To make talks with experts to explain both to us and to Bulgarian citizens what is coming. And with what you are doing, you have created fears and these panic actions today are the result of your experience in some way to solve the problem of these fears. However, trust in your policy and trust in the Bulgarian lev is a very thin issue. We are responsible enough not to create additional fears, but what you have actually done is that in the last few days each one of us has received dozens of calls: Am I gonna change course? Should we turn our money from levs into euros now? s With this decision you do not solve this issue and not solve the bigger question about how Bulgaria approaches the follow-up actions before joining the Eurozone. I will not prolong our comments. Our parliamentary group has at least tried to discuss this issue seriously enough. I will tell you this as our decision on this matter. We are not, in principle, against the decision that is being proposed, but we believe that this decision creates a collision of legislation that is one for internal use, and another that you will accept in the afternoon of the Budget Committee, as outlined. With this decision you will want to justify the afternoon discussion in the Committee on Budget and Finance, but we believe that this is not how the problem is solved. Therefore, today we will abstain from this decision and we believe that this is actually the case. [[a line from the National Representative Plamen Manushev]] which is the most national responsible, as you suggest on the right, is Menda Stoyanova's proposals for amendments to the BNB Act to be withdrawn, to give sufficient time to prepare a text to incorporate the tests of this decision you are proposing today. I am convinced that there is a way to do this, but you continue to explain that there is no way this can happen because you want to still have your hands untied for future decisions. We have doubts that if these decisions remain in your hands, it is very possible to give in again to pressure and finally end this whole process not in the way it is described here in this decision. If you withdraw the proposal for a change to the BNB Act as it is done now, if you give time, even if it is short a few days, a new text will be made to incorporate t.1 and 2 of these decisions in the proposal for a change to the BNB Act, the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria will support such a text in the Commission, and then in the Parliament. That's our position. I hope you'll respect her even though I don't believe it. You prefer to go with the horns ahead, not to take into account the fears of the citizens and the reason we are trying to bring in as opposition. However, if you do, you will have one full support in the Bulgarian Parliament for these actions. As you approach, we cannot be accomplices to this. We will continue to support the actions in support of Bulgaria's accession to the Eurozone, but in the strong and clear guarantees that the national interest will be protected, the exchange rate will be protected as it is now, and that there will be full guarantees that citizens' savings and not only citizens' savings, the companies' entire turnover will not be affected, at the moment when these decisions will have to be taken, hopefully sooner, but without guaranteeing that this will be the case. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u75	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Gechev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u76	Madam President, honourable Members! Of course, I am disciplined to share the decision of our parliamentary group, which was the result of discussions with the Minister of Finance and the representative of the Central Bank. They are not here and this is not a coincidence because they do not want to share the responsibility, and I am here to read you a text. Since the importers, including the Minister of Finance with his silence this morning, have acknowledged that they expected that we would not read the Council of Europe resolution, what is being cited. They're quoting the first part. Listen, Bulgarian citizens and MEPs, at the end of the resolution of Europe.. Amsterdam, 16 June 1997 ends this way:.. All participants in the negotiation process, it is about exiting the ERM II.... from the waiting room, and entering the Eurozone, including the representative of the European Central Bank......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... [[Shows.]] What we've been explaining to you for the past few days, what does it mean? What will the Bulgarian government negotiate in the waiting room? What matters is how you get out of the waiting room! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] No one can guarantee what rate is entered in the Eurozone, as [[GERB noise and lines]] ... Listen to me!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u77	Hold on, guys!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u78	... The European Council has said that they decide when they leave the waiting room! [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] Hence the question: what does the Minister of Finance now want to negotiate? The European Council forbids negotiating while it is in the waiting room! The European Council, while you're in the waiting room, has a law We will not hesitate plus-minus 15%, that is, here lies, hidden information from the Bulgarian people! This resolution of the European Council is getting away with what you are explaining. Since you have made a mistake, you have entered this trap and stirred up the spirits, you now want the entire parliament to leave the problems you bring us into every day, and to look to the bright future, to the waiting room. However, there awaits us the ministers of finance of France, of the Netherlands, of the European Central Bank, who are not at all interested in your decision at the moment and will burst into continuous laughter when they see what you have decided on the decisions they will make. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] Have a nice day.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u79	- What's the line? Mr. Tsonev, come in. [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u80	Madam President, honourable Members! Honorable Professor Gechev, and we read! We read yesterday, we read the other day, and what you quoted, you didn't quote it to the end. Here, I've even highlighted it. Professor Gechev, to read to you the resolution in question, point 2.3, which is quoted in our decision: The decisions on the central interest rates and the standard tolerances of fluctuation, sailing the course are taken by mutual agreement of the ministers of the Member States of the Eurozone, ministers and governors of the central banks of the Member States outside the Eurozone participating in this mechanism. Bulgarian representatives will vote there, colleagues, they will vote before the Governor of the Central Bank and who is then Minister of Finance. [[(Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) A line from the National Representative Rumen Gechev.)]] Please don't interrupt me! All this time I listened to you read something and I wouldn't get up to say it if it wasn't important for the trust of Bulgarian citizens and for the trust in the course. Everything else is your position and your party, which I don't care about at all, but this is about trust. [[Applause from DPS and GERB.]] I will read it to the end:...outside the Eurozone participating in the new mechanism after a common procedure involving the European Commission and after consulting the financial economic committee. Ministers and governors of central banks and Member States that do not participate in the currency mechanism... All parties to a mutual agreement will have the right to initiate a confidential procedure of which you are talking about aimed at reviewing central interest rates. For this reason, today, with the Decision, we are giving our participants a clear mandate there that they are not entitled to vote and participate in the process in any other way than the mandate that this decision gives them. That is why I said that the Bulgarian representatives after the decision in this advisory body are not allowed to change the course without a sanction of the National Assembly, which is the same as art. 29, para. 1. It can be changed only by sanctioning the National Assembly. So we align the mechanism. The mechanism for exiting the currency board is with a change of the Law of the National Assembly, and the mechanism for changing the exchange rate will be only with the sanction of the National Assembly. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS and GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u81	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonev. Second line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u82	My duplicate is that the text that I just translated ends there with a point. And it was confirmed. The idea of what we Bulgarians say we all want to go to Frankfurt, to the European Central Bank and to show some solution that the bankers from all over Europe are not moving, GERB and coalition partners have obliged them to do so. They're really gonna laugh! Thank you. [[(Loud noise. Replies from GERB: We are going out, they should laugh.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u83	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Mr. Ivanov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u84	Honourable Members, Madam President! I have listened patiently to those who speak, and I am not surprised by the position of my fellow Members on the left. To me, a profound amazement awakens the widely shared support they have shared so far, loudly or silently, of Bulgaria's accession to the Single Monetary Mechanism and our future adoption of the euro in Bulgaria. After their speeches today, I am beginning to wonder whether this was true on their part, whether they really support the euro, or perhaps some other currency to the east of us, which Bulgaria wishes to accept. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u85	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u86	Because a fellow Member who spoke earlier suddenly got acquainted with a resolution of 17 June 1997, signed in Amsterdam, which apparently had not yet read it. Colleagues, when you supported Bulgaria's accession to the Eurozone before then, why didn't you get acquainted with this? Colleagues, debates over the past few days and what is widely shared by you in public space prove to me once again how you, even without taking part in the government, can drive the Bulgarian citizens' mistrust of the financial stability of the state and the exchange rate and the stability of the banks without ruling! That's what you've proved in your management that you're completely annihilating and destroying the banking system. Please don't do this when you're not at the station. I thought that today, in this debate, we would find unanimity with this decision, which complements the 1997 requirement, which was mentioned by the previous speakers, that Bulgaria should mention this in its law as an opportunity for an agreement between this exchange rate. And we complement with this decision of the National Assembly, which I hope we will adopt everyone unanimously today, unfortunately, you will hold back openly, to oblige the negotiators to oblige the Minister of Finance, whoever it is, and the Governor of the Bulgarian Bank to defend the position of Bulgaria and Bulgaria to enter the waiting room of the Eurozone only in the course that is the current on the currency board. Since 2003, colleagues, to reassure you, although this clearly will not affect your political decision, there has been an interpretive decision by the European Central Bank, which says that the countries participating in the process of joining the ERM II can keep their exchange rate and fixing towards it unilaterally until entry into this Eurozone, as Latvia and Estonia did, respectively, in 2011 and 2015. So all the speculation, listen to me, colleagues on the left, unfortunately, picked up by some economists in the public space who have been hearing for a few days, and I can share that my friends have also called me: "Sasho, will the currency board drop out in Bulgaria?" Enough of this panic! Today's decision has proved this decision and the political support it has. I hope to keep the currency board from dropping out in Bulgaria in the future, and the BNB rate will be that way. But with this decision on your logic, if you can change the exchange rate.Well, colleagues, why are you not positive, why don't you say, for example, that yes, Bulgaria could negotiate and insist on which I am deeply surprised one lev to be one euro. Then the Bulgarians would become twice as rich. With the insistence and with this panic that you have created, you remove this possibility, even theoretically and hypothetically, as you say. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] That's right, guys! [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u87	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u88	That's right, you guys, I'm ashamed of you! That's right! [[Loud noise.]] So, colleagues, support today's decision or simply do not use the situation to create tension and panic in Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u89	Are there lines? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u90	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mr. Ivanov! Instead of going out here on the stand and holding solemn words about who was panicking, you do it because, by submitting such a proposal for amendment of a law at six to ten, you created panic in Bulgarian citizens, because in your text it says that the European authorities will decide which course will come out of the euro. Today you are panicking trying to sell us a solution to calm the public tensions. Why don't you agree with our proposal: all these tests we are discussing here at the moment, enter the Law and become part of the BNB Act? Why don't you agree to this thing? You continue to build up tension and transfer the ball to us. But you created the tensions because your practice to change laws in the Transitional and Final Regulations is such important laws as the BNB Act or other laws which yesterday brought thousands of citizens here before the National Assembly to protest against you. This is your practice, so you do it. Take a lesson! You're sinking the country, that's what you're doing! You make people go outside and wonder how to survive from here on out. What about the pensioners, what to think, who take 200 or 220 leva. Retirement?! Their pension will be 100 leva. That's what you tell them! You don't tell them anything else. Learn from us what we say! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u91	Second line? Second line, Mr. Bikov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u92	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Ivanov, you neglected to tell us why there is a currency board in Bulgaria and who are its fathers and mothers. A currency board, colleagues, has since 1997 with a consensus decision because you have bankrupted the state. Then you broke the trust in the Bulgarian lev! You, your party, your way! [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Therefore, Mr. Ivanov, you should explain that trust in the Bulgarian lev and in the Bulgarian monetary policy, which Bulgaria gave up 1997 because of the Bulgarian Socialist Party and its governance, so there is no confidence in the Bulgarian lev! [[Applause from GERB.]] So now people are afraid that the course will start sailing. In all European countries the course sails and there people do not worry because they do not have BSP! [[Loud noise.]] They're worried because they have BSPs! Right now you're trying to panic completely unnecessary. We offer you a solution in which to fix the course, give a mandate, oblige the Minister of Finance and the Director of the Central Bank to defend in this course with the act of parliament to be consensual among all parties. What more can we do?! You say no! And in my opinion, Mr. Ivanov, the Bulgarian Socialist Party is about to destroy the consensus for entering the Eurozone. That's the big problem today. Come out clearly and say: we want to enter the Eurozone, give a mandate to the Minister of Finance, whoever he is, and to the head of the Central Bank on this course to enter. That's it! What's there to think about? You're trying to panic people right now, or you're doing it unconsciously. Because I'm pretty sure the bankruptcy you brought back in 1997 was still an accident, with good intentions. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u93	Third line? Mr. Ivanov, come on in. [[Heckling]] Then in the manner of conduct. Let's finish the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u94	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you to the replicators. First, in order of numbers. Mr. Ivanov, I stressed once again that what we have proposed and using technology that you are using repeatedly by your parliamentary group has been tabled again in a resolution of 1997, which we commented that such a requirement is available from the European Central Bank, where the final word remains ours again. Because, as Mr. Tsonev said, the decision in which Bulgaria participates, already entering the currency mechanism, makes the final decision. So you continue to create panic. That's what I stressed. Be more idealistic. I thank Mr. Bikoff for the backdrop, but I guess you didn't have to remind him, because I remember very well then the bankruptcy of the state. You reminded him of it to your colleagues on the left. I really put this issue first.. they should come out and declare from the stand today: do they want Bulgaria to join the Eurozone or not? That's the technology. Even if I stress, by adopting this decision, is the additional guarantee and security that any finance minister, any governor, that without the sanction of the National Assembly there can be no further change of course and we will not enter the Eurozone then. That's it! Period! Finito! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u95	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. In the manner of conduct, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u96	Thank you, Madam President. My procedure is the way I conduct myself. In view of the talks and the tone that was held on the several Presidency Councils held on this subject, I ask you to follow the Rules, forget this tone and leave it, strictly follow the Rules when a Member of Parliament violates it and return the debate to where it belongs entirely on the basis of the expert. Playing with personal attacks, insults between parties is not in favor of either the National Assembly or the vital topic we are discussing at the moment. Therefore, I ask you to strictly follow the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u97	Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov. Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u98	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I continue Mr. Letifov's call that in this atmosphere that was created, it is difficult to come to some constructive solution. Secondly, at the meeting of our parliamentary group with Mr. Finance Minister, we have expressed our understanding that the accession of a country to the Eurozone, in this case our country, requires consensus at different levels of both public and political and parliamentary. So there has to be a broad enough basis for this decision. How do you come to political consensus? That is the question we have asked Mr. Goranov. He could not answer whether the way he decided to act the government could come to a consensus. I think this has exhausted the question of the source of the tension. The source of the tension is commented by experts in the financial field, lecturers at economic universities for three days. The Bulgarian Socialist Party has in no way commented on this issue. We've been waiting for the government's proposal. The proposal came in the form of a dualist action Okay, we'll take that. Where do we think the pressure comes from and why? Mr. Vigenin expressed our position. I don't think there's much to add to it, as it was said. Where's the pressure coming from? The finance minister, perhaps, accidentally or perhaps intentionally, told our parliamentary group the following: our tension, he says, concerns arise from the fact that we here have an assessment of our state, but, he says, sometimes it gets away with the outside. I'm doing a summary of what he said. In other words, our expectations, since, sorry, but the exchange rate of yes, there is a speculative element in it, there are also elements of administration often by the central banks, but the exchange rate is a function of the state of the holding. Otherwise we go to a foreign exchange rate when the National Assembly starts to determine whether the National Assembly, or a Politburo, or someone else, is another system of determining the exchange rate and it has nothing to do with the economy. That's what every student will say. Therefore, the value of our left-wing yes depends on the negotiations, depends on the ERM II, depends on the fulfilment of macro financial conditions, the state of the commercial banks sector. Yes, it depends on that too, but it depends on the real sector of the Bulgarian economy. It depends on how much our left is worth. Here the Bulgarian government, and it is about the responsibility of the government, must be aware of itself first and then honestly to the citizens of the state what is the state of the national economy! Because the state of the national economy is that factor that will give the basis of our finance minister, the Governor of the Central Bank, for negotiations with the finance ministers of the major European countries and the management of the European Central Bank. Because these talks will take out the parameters of the national economy. There already the self-assessment of our Prime Minister, the government and the majority must correspond to the assessment of these metrodious economic and financial factors. Then we'll have a match between what we're doing here and what should be at the end of this period ERM II. And there will be no political discussions on the value of the Bulgarian lev. The value of the Bulgarian lev cannot be determined by a decision of the National Assembly or... Yeah, we'll fix a value there... The currency board is a specific system. Here several times both financiers and colleagues who are more familiar with this matter stressed that Bulgaria is in a unique situation in this regard in the European Union. The consensus in this direction is therefore even more necessary. Even more necessary! Unfortunately, the majority so understands making consensus: we will make a text and give it to you shortly before the vote, and you must agree with it because there is nowhere to go. Dear colleagues, this is not a consensus! Because we here, come on, will achieve some consensus, but the question was asked: what do Bulgarian citizens think? They must be convinced of that. Here, the role and responsibility of the executive power is enormous. Mrs. Menda Stoyanova can't go with a legislative amendment. With respect to her financial competence and the position she holds! You can't go like this! The action itself creates mistrust. So let us respect the positions we have stated so far. Our position is argued. Let's look for the real consensus on the key issues of our national development. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u99	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. Line, Mrs. Taskova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u100	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Jablyanov, I have very carefully followed your speech, also the statement of several BSP colleagues before you. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Only in your speech formed a few conflicting ones and it would be good, I think for everyone, to explain exactly what you mean. On the one hand, you yourself say that an exchange rate depends on different macroeconomic indicators, the state of the economy and so on. Other colleagues of yours mentioned that all the ministers of the Bulgarian National Assembly's decision would laugh at an interesting conclusion. On the other hand, you say that you insist that a precise, specific rate of euro-lev be entered in the law itself, although you think this is unacceptable, because it is determined by, as I have already said, various macroeconomic indicators. On the other hand, however, when this is implemented in a decision of the National Assembly and a specific, precise, clear euro-lev rate is recorded, with which the National Assembly gives the Minister of Finance a mandate to conduct the negotiations, you do not agree again. In fact, can you explain to all MPs exactly what BSP wants done to make it clear to the public that there is no dispute here how Bulgaria should be accepted in the Eurozone or not, but rather the dispute is why this did not happen in the Law, in the decision or according to the macroeconomic indicators. I would be grateful if you would explain to all of us, because these different ones may somehow confuse the Bulgarian public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u101	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taskova. Second line? I can't see. It's a hole. Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u102	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Taskova, I'm sorry if you had such an impression somewhere. I hope, for the most part, that I have not made such an impression. But I will try to distract your ambiguities. The political position of BSP was communicated by my colleague Mr. Vigenin sufficiently argued. So I'm not going back to that so I don't take up your time. The question of what I said in my speech, I said that floating exchange rates are a function of the real economy. We don't have a floating exchange rate right now because we're on a currency board. The issue of exiting the currency board in Bulgaria in this way is related to a shift to the floating rate of the euro. That's what I'm talking about in two, three or five years. That is, the return of BGN to a floating exchange rate will take place through its accession to the euro. That is why his course will be related to the real sector of the Bulgarian economy in the future. That's what this is about. So Professor Gechev said that it can come to laughter in certain financial circles when we present our estimates and they represent theirs. So I tried to say that it is important that the government be honest with itself first, so that we know what is produced in Bulgaria, what is exported, at what price, how much we pay workers and what is our real place in the economic process, so that we know how much the currency costs us so that we can conduct normal negotiations. That's what I meant, dear Mrs. Taskova. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u103	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. Colleagues, any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. There's a vote coming up. First, I will put to the vote the editorial proposal, an addition of Mr. Sabanov,....................................................................................... This Decision may only be amended by a two-thirds majority of the total number of Members of the National Assembly. [[Heckling]] That's the extra point three Mr. Sabanov suggested. Vote 141 MPs: 45 against 9, abstention 87. The offer is not accepted. I vote on the draft decision that I read to you at the beginning of the presentation of the point. Decision setting the conditions for the negotiation of a central rate of BGN to the euro, pursuant to § 2, item 2. 3 of the European Council resolution on the establishment of a mechanism for exchange rates in the third stage of the economic and monetary union (97/C236/03). Vote 208 MPs: 140 against 2, abstention 66. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on today's agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR TRANSPLANTATION OF ORGANIZATIONS, PUTTERS AND CABIES. A report from the Committee on Health will present to us Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u104	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on organ, tissue and cell transplantation, No 954-01-68, submitted by Georgi Mihaylov and a group of MPs on 12 September 2019. At its regular meeting held on 23 January 2020, the Committee on Health examined and discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Organ, Tissue and Cell Transplantation, No 954-01-68, submitted by Georgi Mihaylov and a group of MPs on 12 September 2019. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Hristina Getova, Director of the Department of Legal Affairs of the Ministry of Health; Mr. Rosen Ivanov, Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the Medical Supervision; Representatives of the trade unions; the word organizations in the field of health, and the patient organizations. The bill and the reasons for it were presented by Professor Georgi Mihailov. He informed the MPs that the regulatory changes discussed aim to increase the readiness for donation in the Republic of Bulgaria, to improve the conditions for providing organs, tissues and cells with healing purposes and to ease the process of realization and control of the donor situation in the country. The proposed amendments and additions create a legal opportunity for persons to express their consent in their lifetime to take organs, tissues and cells, facilitate the order to notify the relatives of a potential donor and specify the order by which their consent should be sought. It is envisaged that the budget of the Ministry of Health will provide financial resources annually to cover all costs associated with organ, tissue and cell transplantation, including costs related to the donor and recipient in the pre-transplantation and post-transplantation period. In conclusion, Professor Mihailov pointed out that the arguments put forward in the negative opinion of the Ministry of Finance are general, unfounded and do not correspond to the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on organ, tissue and cell transplantation. He explained that the Bill did not create specific financial burdens for state authorities, but introduced a guarantee that all activities provided for in the Law would be financed adequately. Mrs. Hristina Getova pointed out that the promotion of donation and the improvement of the transplant process in Bulgaria is one of the main priorities of the Ministry of Health, which has found an expression in the Law on the Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Medical Institutions, in which transitional and final provisions are proposed amendments to the Law on Organ, Tissue and Cell Transplanting, which largely achieve the objectives set out in the draft. According to the Ministry of Health, the creation of an opportunity for individuals to express, in their lifetime, an explicit consent for donation, after which the will of the loved ones not to be taken into account, is, from a legal point of view, a serious moral and ethical issue which should be subject to broad and thorough public discussion. In the event of any support to that proposal, consent should be treated as a legal possibility for the exercise of which it is intended to facilitate the decision of relatives to form a will and not to exclude their views from the process. With regard to the proposal to set a period of 24 hours during which the general practitioner or physician should notify the Executive Agency of the will of his donor patient during life, the Ministry of Health considers that this requirement will be difficult to apply in practice, since the visit to the doctor does not include an hour but a day of visit. In general, it is supported that the notification period should be shortened, but in order to carry out effective control and traceability of the process it would be appropriate to continue counting in days instead of hours. On the other hand, the extension of the ability to declare the will to donate to a doctor is at risk of complicated the procedure and possible difficulties in administering this process. At this stage, no problems have been identified with the current regulatory framework in this regard and should therefore be continued only to the general practitioner. When discussing the financial part of the proposed bill, account should be taken of the provision of art. 19 of the Public Finance Act, according to which the provisions of regulations providing for an increase in expenditure, a reduction in revenue and/or commitment to expenditure/payments, having adopted the annual laws on the budget held, on the budget of state social security and on the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, must not be provided for to enter into force earlier than their amendment or since their entry into force for the next budgetary year. The written opinion of the Ministry of Finance states that the regulatory changes under discussion are not in line with the current legislation in the field of public finances. The fact that both the reasons and the preliminary impact assessment of the proposed bill lacks a detailed analysis of the financial and other means necessary for the implementation of the new arrangements and the expected financial results of its implementation is also pointed out. In view of the arguments put forward, the Ministry of Finance does not support the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Organ, Tissue and Cell Transplanting. During the discussion, the members of the Health Commission agreed on the need to take consistent measures to promote donation and improve the organization of transplantation activities in Bulgaria. Some of the MPs stressed that the National Assembly's review of the Law on amendment and supplement of the Law on Medical Institutions is to be reviewed by the Council of Ministers and proposed amendments to the Law on transplantation of organs, tissues and cells precisely in the direction of the promotion of donation and development of the transplant process in the country. These changes are based on a thorough analysis of the existing challenges and problems in this area and in accordance with the legislation in force in the Republic of Bulgaria. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out in the following results: 9 votes for.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u105	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. Importer's Opinion........................................................................................................ GEORGI Mihailov (BSP for Bulgaria): Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will start by presenting the reasons that last calendar year, at the initiative of the BSP parliamentary group in February, a debate was held in the Chamber of the Bulgarian Parliament, which was needed to radically change the foundations of the transplant program of tissues, organs and cells in Bulgaria and was obliged the Minister of Health to present such a programme within three calendar months. In May there was a next hearing of the Minister of Health, in which he presented his views and our parliamentary group pointed out to him the serious problems in the vision he presented, for the implementation, in our opinion, of a real barrier in the field of transplant treatment in Bulgaria, which is one of the most important directions of high-tech medicine, which is increasingly beginning to dominate healthcare throughout the world, including in Bulgaria. In one year, because in just a few days it will be one year from our first discussion, practically the transplant activity in Bulgaria has not changed at all. I will not quote the data of the Executive Agency for Medical Supervision, which was entrusted with the Final Provisions of the NHIF Budget Bill to carry out registration of this activity, but the careful review of the activity in Bulgaria suggests that in one year it has not changed. Bulgaria has the lowest activity within the European Union in terms of transplant activities in the country, which is 0.7% per million population. In comparison, in former Eastern European countries, such as Croatia, like Slovenia, have activity that is not at times, but in tens of times higher: for Croatia it is 7.9% per million population, for Slovenia it is 11.4% per million population. In this aspect, as importers, we are focusing on several main directions to help the Ministry of Health in solving the problems of... in a positive sense, both in a positive way and in a positive direction, of transplant treatment in Bulgaria. First of all, we raised the question of financial security. Nowhere in our bill is this proposal an imperative entry that, at the time of the adoption of the Bill, it is almost necessary to update the budget in order to provide all transplantation activities. This could have happened between first and second readings, could have happened now between first and second readings with the adoption of additional points in the Bill with a view to securing in a close one, but a close one, I say, next period, for example from 2021, of all activities in the field of pre-transplantation and post-transplantation treatment. Secondly, as importers, we raised the issue of facilitating the donation mechanism. I would like to say here to all Members of the National Assembly, including those who have been our opponents in the Commission, that in the countries of the Eurotransplant, there exists, and rather in six or seven of them, such as Austria, Croatia, Belgium, Luxembourg and other countries, the so-called subsummate agreement of the patient. That is, when the patient has not expressed his explicit disagreement about the donation of his organs or tissues, the relatives consult in the presence of brain death, but the state is not obliged to ask their permission. Once again, these are Member States of the Eurotransplant, where we are talking about a subliminal agreement, that is, there is no explicit consent of the respective citizen to donate organs. We, as legal carriers, offered the lighter option and took it into consideration, so to speak, best-intentioned with the campaign that took place in the autumn, the Ministry of Health. Dear Members of the National Assembly, the possession of this voluntary card, which was widely advertised by the Minister of Health for consent for donation, has no legal value when in legislation it must be actively consulted, and imperatively with the relatives of the patient who is in a state of brain death, for the possible decision to donate organs. That is, if we want, this is the first direction of facilitating donation, this relatively small number of cases, because as a professional in the field of transplantation I have to tell you that there will not be many Bulgarian citizens who will declare in their lifetime. There is a certain dose of fatality in this, no one should deny it, you should consider yourself in a situation where you can be a donor, as there are many conditions that are set, and they are purely technological, and you go and state that. But even this small group that exists, thanks to the continuous campaign to promote donation, it must be taken before its will, as it is in many countries, as I say, members of the Eurotransplant in the European Union, and this in this respect to arrange for the donation in the Republic of Bulgaria. Secondly, the vast majority of patients who are brain-dead in whom there is no subliminal agreement, i.e. they have not expressed their consent to giving organs and tissues, then as importers of this bill we have already indicated a very clear scheme, a cascade scheme for consulting and decision-making according to the relations and existing relatives of these patients in brain death for the realization of donation. As regards the deadline for informing the Agency for Medical Supervision, I must tell you that our proposal has been very carefully considered and legally, as I must tell you that the majority of patients who are in a state of brain death, which implies the possibility of taking organs from them, are in an urgent situation. They cannot and will never inform their personal physician. If they are in a state of consciousness, they could if they wanted to inform their doctor. The personal physician's idea is virtually untenable. It falls into the first hypothesis in which a relatively small number of citizens, regardless of the campaign, will make a difference before entering into a possible critical situation in which they will agree to be organ donors. In this sense, we have also complied with European legislation, with the experience of countries that are members of the Eurotransplant, and I must share with you, honourable Members, that there are other organisations in Europe, such as Scandinavian transplant, such as Southwest transplant, who are also dealing with the problems of the organisation and not only of donation, but also the exchange of organs between countries. I must tell you that in Bulgaria and so far this is a very serious issue for the country, a very big problem for the country. For six years he has no longer been a member of the Eurotransplant because we have a number of donors per million population that are absolutely insufficient. The required minimum of donors is ten per million population, that is, Bulgaria should have over-the-counter 70 donors per year, and for last year, the data of the Executive Agency shows that we have 16 donors in total for the country's territory, and by dividing it by seven million, see what happens. With regard to the Ministry of Finance's remark that there are no financial estimates, we consulted all leading transplants in the country and stated that when approving this bill and its entry into force within a time limit laid down by the Parliament, it is not necessary to do so with its publication in the Official Journal, many of the legislative acts that we adopt are postponed within 1 January next year, 1 June next year, are between 10 and 30 million. lv. I have to tell you that only for the creation of a donor bank in Bulgaria... under all mechanisms and criteria of the European institutions... such a project existed and was proposed in the Bulgarian Parliament ten years ago........ is necessary............................................................. BGN, i.e. we do not accept that there are no financial estimates and these financial estimates are carefully consulted with leading transplants. I don't want to mention them by name, but these are my colleagues and some of them you know well, and some of them you don't have to know, but understand me well, as a transplantist who has worked for more than 30 years in this area: if there is no financial provision for this activity, there is no 24-hour control of the donor situation in Bulgaria, we will never get out of this situation! All the pompous talk about trying to do something here are the results from last year: there is no change in either donor situations or in the number of transplants, and even in some directions we have a decrease in the number of organ transplants, and in other directions we have a slight increase, but it is much lower as an absolute number than what was observed just two or three years ago.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u106	Please finish your thought.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for the remark. I am finishing up and, in this sense, we strongly urge you to support our bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u108	You have the floor, colleagues. I'm opening the debate. I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u109	I thank you, Dr. Daritkova, for caring for the person presenting the motives. I'll be very brief in my speech. I regret that the interest in this House is minority at the moment for the question that concerns each of us not to give God, but all of you have had close or familiar friends who need this form of treatment. Almost every day I face many critical situations of Bulgarian citizens. I want to tell you, colleagues, that over a thousand people are waiting for a kidney transplant. Over a thousand people! This is the largest direction in the world's global organ transplant, tens of thousands of transplants are carried out in the world annually. That's what I told you a year ago: at the rate we're going on 20, 30, 40, 50 transplants a year, we can't reach the implementation of the now-needed transplant treatment for 20 years, and they don't have time to wait. Secondly, what was suggested as a problem of Bulgarian transplantology is that a pompous program for training Bulgarian doctors in lung transplants was announced. Suddenly it turned out in September last year, and it was recently that a Bulgarian hospital could, possess the footage, and the collateral would perform such a transplant and it would complete successfully. There's a lot that can be done. We are not saying that our draft law is comprehensive, but I would like to tell you that it is quite frankly and respectfully directed towards the problems of transplantology, namely through the Law on Organ, Tissue and Cell Transplantation, and not as mentioned here just now, through another law, the Law on Medical Institutions, which is now a very vicious practice, to introduce changes to the Final Regulations in the Law on Transplanting, which will in no way facilitate the dynamics in a positive direction to solve this important problem for the country. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u110	Thank you, Mr. Mihailov. - What's the line? Any other speeches? Mrs. Stoyanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u111	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear importers of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Organ Transplanting, Tissues and Cells! Taking into account this law amending and supplementing the Law on organ, tissue and cell transplantation, I will also express the views of colleagues from GERB's parliamentary group. At the beginning of my presentation, I would like to share that our parliamentary group, following a detailed introduction to the reasons of the bill, the texts of the current law, as well as the opinions of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Finance, which were discussed here in detail and when presenting the Report of the Committee on Health, and in the speech of Dr. Mihailov, our parliamentary group will not support this bill, will abstain, that is to say, as was the result of the Health Committee meeting that took place last week. These are not stubborn acts, as we were accused of during a Health Commission meeting. I'll brief you on our motives in a moment. We will not support it, not because we do not appreciate the importance of the measures to be taken with regard to the promotion of donation, respectively for the development and extension of the scope of transplants, on the contrary, as you know, within the remit of the Ministry of Health is that it is working primarily on optimizing the financial framework in the field of transplantation. Yeah, things don't really happen fast, but we're working on it. The Council of Ministers has developed and adopted a National Programme for the Promotion of Donation and Assistance of Transplantation in the Republic of Bulgaria with a period of validity from 2019 to 2023. The opportunities for reimbursement of the costs and the relative share of the labour funds and transplant activities financed by the Ministry of Health are currently being analyzed. This is in practice in line with the forthcoming changes to the existing Regulation No 29 of 2007. The importers' proposals and therefore our opinion on them. In Section "Financials" of the Law on Organ, Tissue and Cell Transplanting, importers propose changes concerning the payment of actual costs of the medical institutions, as well as an imperative text for the introduction of a legal obligation for the Ministry of Health to provide, through its budget for the relevant year, all funds to secure the transplantation activities. This change is not in line with the powers of the National Assembly and the Council of Ministers as regards the state budget and is contrary to the Public Finance Act for the budgetary process. The introduction of a legal requirement to provide, through the budget for the relevant year, all funds to secure the activities also leads to some disagreement with the related legal framework. This concerns part of the activities under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 2 of the Organ, Tissue and Cell Transplant Act. Here we can mention the medical projects in the field of transplantation, including the rules for promoting research, state aid rules and others. And one more thing: the adoption of this proposal would eventually lead to funding of the same activities both from the state budget and from the National Health Insurance Fund.. Research in the pre-transplantation period, after dehospitalization of the patient and others. Dear colleagues, we appreciate the proposal to extend the circle of relatives who may express the will to donate in relation to their deceased relative, which allows for the realization of more donor situations, as well as the idea of individuals living to declare consent for donation. At the same time, one of the proposed texts is, to put it mildly, disturbing in morally ethical terms. I'll quote your suggestions, it's about art. 21 with all the corrections that you propose: The taking of organs, tissues and cells by a deceased person may be carried out if: the person has expressed his consent to the making of organs in the appropriate way here, I will shorten the reading here, the Executive Agency is concerned with the following conditions: in the service register of the executive agency there is no disagreement with the person for the taking of organs, tissues and cells after his death; for the upcoming taking of organs, tissues and cells here we are already expanding the relatives who can give consent, it is communicated to the wife or children, parents, in case they are not close, we reach through the brothers and sisters to the relatives on the second line of the college...................................................................................................................................................................................... Colleagues, can any of you give me a legal definition of the expression "reasonably short term"? In my opinion, it is unprofessional and not serious to have such an expression in the Law. I can't agree with the fact that we won't comply with the will of our loved ones in these hypotheses. We would not support the proposal to reflect written consent or disagreement about donation, notice, of foreigners staying long, long-term or permanent in the Republic of Bulgaria. Colleagues, let us assume that quite consciously and responsibly they have agreed, but another question arises here. Again under this law, we are in conflict with him, because it is not clear where they are close to the second serb line, which can give written consent or disagreement to perform organ, tissue and cell donation. If this does not happen and if we do not find them for such agreement within a reasonable short time, we proceed to carrying out activities under the Law, after which we can, at the very least, expect a scandal from their loved ones. I will briefly address the proposal for further inclusion of the treating physician in the process of declaring consent for donation. Our judgment is that it's not appropriate. Prof. Mihaylov explained the two situations here - one through the attending physician, the other through the general practitioner, as so far, within a three-day period, but in this second one is already working in an emergency situation and, as so far, relatives can give permission to take organs, tissues or cells. I also told the doctor at the Commission's meeting that anyone involved in administrative activity would agree how difficult it is to administer a process in which there are a large number of participants. With the possible adoption of this change, instead of reducing the administrative burden, we will further burden our colleagues, who we know are too burdened with their daily work. For the same reason, we also believe that the proposed very short period of 24 hours for notification by the general practitioner of the Executive Agency is not applicable. For us, three days at the moment is a satisfactory period, and as Dr Daritkova mentioned, introducing us to the Report, the Ministry of Health intends to reduce, but reasonably, this period may be when proposing amendments to the Law on Medical Institutions. It has already been said that the Bill for Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Medical Institutions is to be reviewed, where there is a detailed part that concerns transplants. We realize that the Law, which we have been talking about for so long, needs to be changed to ensure improvement of the activity, and we are counting on this to happen by starting with the forthcoming review of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Medical Institutions. We are convinced that in this discussion we could reach consensus and correct some of the texts that he objectively needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u112	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. - What's the line? Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u113	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! For now, I'm going to try to get inside the line. I guess I won't make it, and then I'll make a speech. I'll start with what you graduated with. You hope with your actions now in this Chamber, and in general, with the Law, which is perhaps something being prepared, to start solving the problem. If you're going to start solving the problem now that you're just on the waiting list for a lung transplant, over ten people have died in the last year, you know you're late. At least that was the request. The idea here I have noted a lot of things, but the main thing you are saying is that, as you have so far, your paces have been inspired by your words. I am convinced that they may be satisfactory for you and, as they have so far, be good, but for the people that I have at least had the misfortune to encounter in recent years, it is not a good pace at all. For some of them, they were absolutely fatal. I'm not going to speculate now to list it to you, but I'll probably have to list you one person at a time sooner or later. They've been painful memories for all of us over the past year, and there's a lot of them. So you are neither good timing nor satisfactory work nor your position under this law is adequate! I would like, or rather, to dream as a person who is already a third term present in this House, to have some topics and causes on which we can reach unity in this House. I understand that politicizing and somehow opposing one and the other is part of the political work, which may be part of the search for the truth. I understand that all of us, including us, on the left, often fall into politicization, but in this case I think it is absolutely pointless. And nothing prevents you from continuing your work under the Law on Medical Institutions or by which you want more law, but to take what's good from this one. And in order to take it, you have to accept it at first reading, make changes to second to make it count. And that would make sense if it wasn't politicizing and partying. I'm not gonna have time now, and I'm gonna stop because I still have a bunch of things here, like the reasonable short term, which is part of the current law...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u114	Your line continued...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u115	I'm done. I'm sorry. I'll join you after that. What you're doing right now is not the problem that's being partnered and politicized, it's costing people's lives and I'm surprised they don't weigh you!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u116	Second line? Mr. Mikhailov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u117	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My fellow Member, I have shared many times in this House that a person, when he starts making a proposal or opposing in a very specific area, must very carefully get acquainted with the problems of the area. Everything you have read is a legislative state in countries of the European Union if you listened to me carefully! Nowhere in these countries that are members of the European Transplant, which surpass us in dozens of times in their effectiveness of the transplant program, are put to discussion any more the problems that you are now raising, I do not want to mention them, because we will repeat each other, while, as the poets say, the world is turning on. With regard to the rest, too, the financial framework and the so-called discrepancies that came to the Constitution, there is no such thing. I tried to explain this to you very well. By many of our laws, which have been adopted with delayed effect within the following calendar year. And I would like to say to you, my fellow Member, that in the Republic of Poland, which is currently at the top of the entire former Eastern bloc as an economy and as healthcare, in the field of and in transplantology, a special law has been adopted to stimulate health, which, regardless of what political forces the country manages every year provides technological development of medicine in the Republic of Poland! I mean, none of what we've suggested can be rejected lightly! And indeed here is right colleague Kutev that it is rather similar to that we submitted this bill in September, honourable colleagues... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Now, five or six months later, when the Medical Services Act came up...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u118	Please finish your thought.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u119	...again with the Final Provisions concerning transplants, you have put him in the Commission, respectively, in the Chamber and are trying to neglect him. That doesn't help with consensus. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u120	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Third line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u121	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Dr. Daritkova, Dear Dr. Stoyanova! As doctors, we all see that we have one problem, no one contradicts this thing - 16 donors, insanity, 1162 people waiting for a transplant! I repeat, let's see what we can do as quickly as possible to get some improvement on this whole thing. Nearly one year since this transplant optimization programme was adopted, the effect between 2019 and 2018 has been zero by 16 transplants. I ask you most humanly, let us think about it so that we can work things out between first and second readings. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u122	Thank you, Mr. Taskov. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u123	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will try very briefly to comment on the lines made by my colleagues. Mr. Kutev, if you haven't understood me correctly that we're just starting transplant activities at all, that's not the case. If you had heard at least that I mentioned the National Program, which has been developed, it proves that strategic actions are already envisaged in relation to transplants. We're not going into any arguments. In addition, speaking of the ZID of the Law on Medical Institutions and the proposals that we have said some of the activities can be included in this change, these are proposals that have made the importers of your parliamentary group, but in this bill have been refined and cleared exactly those moments that concern us and which I have addressed in detail in my speech. The reasonable short term, by the way, is from your bill, not from the current law, and I would like to make this clarification. With my colleague Mihailov, I will not argue on the topic of transplantology. He is still a specialist in this area, so in my speech I have not tried to purely professionally criticize anything about transplantation activities in Bulgaria. Thank you for the professional guidelines he gave, for the international review in Europe that he made, rather, to us. That in September, you submitted the Bill without being a lawyer of the Ministry of Health, perhaps their bill, which became an apple of discord in recent days, was currently uploaded for public discussion because there should be such an administrative measure. Colleague, 16 donors, really 16 donors, but there's no way we can supply the country ourselves with those, keep God from scarier things that people talk about anyway late at night or in the dark and keep it within a little black joke. That's the situation. Once again, I'm telling you that you can't convince us to support the bill. To conclude, I would like to make a procedure, Mr President, to extend the time to vote on this point, we have plenty of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u124	Thank you. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Venka Stoyanova. They voted 142 MPs: 121, against 15, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. We continue to work until the vote is closed. Here you are, Mrs. Naydenova. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u125	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to say that I voted for an extension of time because some things need to be said in this House. They were also told to the Commission itself. It is now really becoming a practice through the Law on Medical Institutions to change many laws, including the Law on Transplants. Something that's extremely insulting! You know, I also told the Commission that the high-tech medicine we seek in Bulgaria will not happen. Unfortunately, there are so many missed years and what Dr. Mihaylov alarmed about, as if some continue or have no interest, or do not want to hear his voice. Because in just a week, we will be looking at the next changes through the Law on Medical Institutions in the Law on Transplants, where you will read the "Imports," "Exports," " Customs" for tissues and organs. Notice, these are Bulgarian fabrics and organs with which we, especially when exporting, will supply in quotes not that they do not need, other countries, probably from the European Union. Instead of developing our transplantology, and this is the basis, regardless of the fact that prices you heard roughly, orientedly the amount that is not so heavy for one Bulgaria, we continue to tread and forward people abroad to perform the transplants. Do you want to develop high-tech medicine or allow others to trade in Bulgarian fabrics and biomaterials, decide for yourself?! Personally, I was disappointed in the health committee vote. I guess I'll be disappointed in a little while, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u126	Thank you. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Kutev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u127	I'm sorry, but I want to return the subject to something that might turn out to be our main topic lately, and it's in the personal responsibility of each and every one of us when he's doing something in this room. Frankly, I have long been convinced that the key bills that change a sector or make a major reform in it cannot be proposed by the opposition for many reasons. Firstly, because the opposition does not have that administrative capacity available to the Council of Ministers and the ministries. Secondly, because the ideas of the opposition can significantly differ from those of ministers and actually make the whole process meaningless, and so on. So when we talk about a crisis in the whole transplant policy, about a dramatic lack of donors, in a sense seven times less than we need, all of this concerns human lives, human destinies and dramas. We're talking about a serious crisis here. I do not believe that any opposition bill can resolve this crisis, and it should not be so. These are crises that must be resolved by the majority. In this regard, the responsible position of a meaningful and working opposition is to seek out moments where it can be useful and propose solutions that will somehow lead the system forward. The opposition can't do any more than that. I'm sure that's exactly what colleagues do with this bill. They find those gaps in the system in which they tell you: "We can take three steps here. " Of course, you can always explain to them that these three steps are not the most important ones that you have a big strategy that will now solve transplant problems. It is true that these explanations of yours face reality directly because the results of recent years are not these. After all, GERB has been managing in practice for 10 years. Ten years, by the way, for some of the European countries has been enough to change their place on the number of transplants in the European Union significantly! In 10 years they have managed to do essential things that are measured by hundreds, up to thousands of lives. So many are saved for those who have managed in 10 years to move from the last to the front. We did the opposite. What we're talking about right now is worth lives. The self-confidence that, as we rule, we ignore everything to make our own, after all, it will fall on you again. The problem is that in the meantime, write down, unfortunately, the number of victims!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-30.u128	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Are there lines? No. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on organ, tissue and cell transplantation, No 954-01-68, submitted by Georgi Mihailov and a group of MPs. They voted 145 MPs: 64, against 1, abstention 80. The offer is not accepted. Parliamentary control messages on 31 January 2020: 1. Debates on asking. Debates on the inquiry by MPs Tasco Ermenkov, Zhelyo Boychev, Violeta Jeleva and Atanas Kostadinov to the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on the policy of the Ministry of Energy regarding the future of coal thermal power plants in Bulgaria. 2. Questions and Questions Answered: - Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Mariana Nikolova will answer one question from the MP Rumen Gechev; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova will answer a question from the National Representative Ivo Hristov; - Interior Minister Mladen Marinov will answer two questions from the MPs Vassil Antonov; and Hassan Ademov; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will answer four questions from the MPs Anna Slavova and Evdokiya Asenova; Irena Anastasova - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev will answer six questions from the MPs Georgi Mihaylov s. three questions; Milko Nedyalkov; Georgi Gokov and Nona Yotova; and Kristian Vigenin and Nikolay Penev; - Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov will answer one question from the MP Vassil Antonov and one question from the MPs Ivelina Vassileva and Emil Hristov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova will answer four questions from the MPs Smilyana Niveva; Boryana Georgieva; Kristina Sidorova; Dobrin Danev and Krum Zarkov. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev of a question by the MPs Kristina Sidorova and Dimitar Danchev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on two questions from the MPs Dobrin Danev and Krum Zarkov; and Nikola Dinkov; and to one question with a written answer from the National Representative Nadia Klisurska-Zekova; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to two questions with written answer from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; and Valentina Naydenova; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva on two questions from the MPs Anton Kutev; and Tanya Petrova; and two questions with written answer from the MPs Georgi Gokov; and Nadia Klisurska-Zhekova; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Nadia Klisurska Zhekova; - the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to a question from the National Representative Teodora Halacheva; and to two questions with a written answer from the MPs Georgi Gokov; and Valentina Naydenova. For lack of respectable reasons, Members of the National Assembly shall postpone the responses to: - a question from the MP Pavel Shopov to the Minister of Culture Boel Banov; - two questions from the National Representative Dora Yankova to the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov, one question; and to the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev, one question. Next regular plenary session tomorrow at 9:00 in accordance with the adopted Work Programme. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
