ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, the first point of the day is: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR PUBLIC PROCUREMENTS. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 14 October 2020. The Committee on Legal Affairs report will introduce us to Mrs. Alexandrova. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u2	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act No 002-01-50, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 October 2020. At its meeting held on 21 October 2020, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act, No 002-01-50, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 October 2020. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Finance: Ms. Marinela Petrova Deputy Minister and by the Public Procurement Agency: Ms. Miglena Pavlova Executive Director, Mrs. Galya Manassieva Director of the Directorate of Administration and Methodology. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mrs. Petrova, who pointed out that the Draft is setting out requirements arising from European public procurement legislation. The scope of amendments to contracts and framework agreements which qualify as material shall be extended. Aims to limit the cases of tolerances from the contract initially concluded. The issue of individual administrative acts of contracting entities is regulated by clarifying the props of decisions created through the Centralised Automated Information System. The award of public contracts by collecting tenders with advertising provides for new opportunities similar to the procedures for the award of contracts at a higher value, such as the application of the so-called reverse order of award and the extension of the time limit for receipt of tenders in certain cases. It is envisaged uniformisation of the approach to determine the amount of penalties imposed by the Commission for the protection of competition when establishing infringements. Limits 1 to 3 per cent and 5 to 10 per cent shall be introduced depending on the seriousness of the infringement. The Bill proposes dropping the participation of external experts in controls carried out by the Public Procurement Agency by random choice. The proposal is a result of the weaknesses found in practice. The lack of sufficient professionals with the necessary professional knowledge and experience in orders with complex and specific subject matter and the low quality of expertise leads to the inefficiency of the checks. The discussion was attended by the MPs Hamid Hamid, Krum Zarkov and Christian Mitev. MPs Hamid and Christian Mitev expressed their support for the bill. Mr. Krum Zarkov noted that he would refrain from supporting the bill, as part of the opinions and comments received in the public discussion of the bill were not taken into account. As a result of the discussion held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 13 votes for the Law on Public Procurement, No 002-01-50, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 October 2020, proposed to the National Assembly the adoption of a Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Public Procurement Act No 002-01-50, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 October 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u3	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. You have the floor, ladies and gentlemen. There are no speakers. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act, No 002-01-50, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 October 2020. They voted 150 MPs: 108, against 1, abstention 41. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Shishkov, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, honourable Members! I propose on the grounds of art. 80, para. 1 of our Rules of Procedure to extend the deadline for submitting proposals between the first and second votes of the general bill adopted on 22 October amending and supplementing the Law on the structure of the territory by two weeks so that it becomes a total of three. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Shishkov. Please vote on the procedure so made to extend the deadline for proposals between first and second readings. Vote 150 MPs: 142, no objection, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next point: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE CALLED PROCEEDING CODEX. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 16 October 2020. With the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Mrs. Alexandrova will introduce us again.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u6	Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Criminal Procedure Code, No 002-01-52, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 October 2020. At its meeting held on 27 October 2020, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, No002-01-52, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 October 2020. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Evgeni Stoyanov, Deputy Minister, Mrs. Daniela Belchina, State Expert at the Department of Law and Ms. Magdalena Georgieva, State Expert at the Directorate of International Legal Cooperation and European Affairs, Mr. Florian Florov, Chief Expert at the Directorate of International Legal Cooperation and European Affairs and by the Supreme Judicial Council Mr. Evgeni Ivanov. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Evgeni Stoyanov, who pointed out that it introduced measures on the implementation of Council Regulation (EU) 2017/1939 establishing enhanced cooperation for the establishment of the European Prosecutor's Office with a view to combating crimes affecting the financial interests of the Union. Amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Code and the Judicial Tribunal Act relating to the procedures laid down in the regulation for communication and cooperation, the status and powers of European prosecutors and European Delegated Prosecutors in investigations, prosecution, appeal and enforcement are envisaged. The proposed Bill empowers European Prosecutors and European Delegated Prosecutors to perform the functions of the Prosecutor by guaranteeing their independence and providing for the status of European Prosecutors and European Delegated Prosecutors to align the status of national prosecutors with the aim to enable them to fully exercise their powers under Regulation (EU) 2017/1939 and the Code of Criminal Procedure in force. Mr. Stoyanov added that in the event of an investigation or termination of criminal proceedings by the European Delegated Prosecutor, the national prosecutor will not have control over the decision, noting that it will only be within the scope of the powers of the monitoring European Prosecutor in accordance with the internal rules of procedure of the European Prosecutor's Office. It shall be completed that the procedural value of the actions carried out by a competent authority of the European Public Prosecutor's Office is equal to the value of those carried out by the Bulgarian authority, providing that the European Prosecutor and the European Delegated Prosecutors may exercise functions as an authority of pre-trial proceedings in cases brought before the competent specialised criminal court. The draft Law also introduces Directive (EU) 2018/1673 of 23 October 2018 on the fight against money laundering in criminal order, providing for a qualified composition of the offence to be established in the Criminal Code. 4 of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering or of its employee or employee in or on the occasion of the fulfilment of the obligations arising from the law. It is envisaged that the Law on the Judiciary will create a legal opportunity for public access to the information contained in the Single Information System for Countering Crime and has the character of public information. It has been noted that the funds to implement the bill are provided under the budget of the European Prosecutor's Office. Mr. Evgeni Ivanov pointed out that there is a decision of the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council, expressing a positive opinion on the Bill, noting that it is timely and ensuring and protecting the financial interests of the European Union. The discussion was attended by MPs Krum Zarkov and Christian Mitev. Mr. Krum Zarkov pointed out that he would refrain from supporting the bill, noting that part of the provisions between the first and second votes should be refined according to him. Mr. Hristian Mitev expressed his support to the Bill by stating that Regulation (EU) 2017/1939 has direct effect and the rules will apply to all Member States of the European Union. As a result of the discussion held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 12 votes for the Council of Ministers, without abstention and 7 votes, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, No 002-01-52, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 October 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u7	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor for speeches. Mr. Zarkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are looking at an extremely important law for the Bulgarian justice system. It is extremely important and extremely complex, as it is about the introduction into the Bulgarian law of the requirements of the regulations, which must make the new European Prosecutor's Office operational. You know, this is that body headed by Mrs. Koveshi, who has to investigate in each member state the way of absorption and legitimate absorption of European funds. In Bulgaria, this issue is sharper than many countries because of the frequent scandals about abuse of this type of means. What is specific here is that the European delegated prosecutors, who will act on behalf of the European Prosecutors' Office in Bulgaria, will act in Bulgaria before the Bulgarian courts, but should not be subject to the normal hierarchy, which includes all other prosecutors. This makes their figure particularly important. In fact, the regulation provides for these prosecutors to have all the powers of the national prosecutors, but to be subject only to the Office in Brussels, the European Prosecutor General, respectively the College of Prosecutors and Standing Committees. This requires every legal system to adapt and this is a complex process. Unfortunately, we have approached, that is to say, you are bringing in the Bill, you have approached this process quite lightly. The BSP for Bulgaria and our parliamentary group for two years raises this issue. We were the first to explain that we need to establish clear procedures for these key figures to be broadcast and entered, woven into our legal system. Unfortunately, this did not happen and at the last moment a very fast law is proposed, which will create a lot of problems in its implementation, and we believe it also contains a conceptual error. Just for comparison, I will tell you that in Belgium, for example, after the Regulation was adopted in 2017, a very serious academic study was commissioned. For two years the Belgian specialists in criminal law studied the different options for creating this new institution, then measured the pros and cons and decided. That's what we do at the last minute. I say, "In the last minute, as the time limits for this to be completed are up to this year, so that the European Prosecutor's Office can finally work on the ground from next year. There was such a rush that even the period for public consultation was reduced to the strict minimum of 15 days. And now, basically, what did that lead to? We have a proposal for amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Law on the Judiciary. It is indeed an effort to separate these European delegated prosecutors from the hierarchy at the top of which is the Prosecutor General and to be able to work in full independence. But is that enough? There are very few amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure by stepping on the philosophy enshrined in the first paragraph that the PPC will in this case apply subsidiaryly to the Regulation. This means that, in fact, these prosecutors will work under the European regulation and only on matters on which it does not give them clear solutions will address the Code of Criminal Procedure. It's just that I don't think it's that simple. The regulation, such as any Euronormal document, is written so that it can be relevant to more than 20 countries that have accepted their participation in the European office of prosecutors, it is written in a language that must embrace all legal systems. The language of the Bulgarian Criminal Procedure Code is much more specific and given the fact that our parliament has as a tradition to write in the smallest detail all kinds of directives, I cannot understand why exactly this regulation was chosen such an approach to shape everything with two or three paragraphs? This, cost me, will create major problems in practice and very soon these issues will have to be completed. There are a lot of questions that are being put and which, if there was a wider public discussion and a greater attraction to the expert community, I think could have been cleared at this stage. But the biggest question we can ask ourselves today is related to the Law on the Judiciary and the way we will choose the people we will propose to Laura Koveshi as European delegated prosecutors in Bulgaria. There is only one norm written on this issue. According to your project, the Prosecutor's College has selected candidates for European delegated prosecutors and through the Minister of Justice, who has no role here except for a mailbox, informs the European Prosecutor General of the broadcast applications. That's not enough! Among whom will this selection be made? What criteria do these people have to meet, given that these criteria are quite common in the regulation itself? Remember, a week ago, we agreed on procedural rules for broadcasting a member of the CEC. Without underestimating the importance of a member of the Central Election Commission, agree that having detailed rules on the way of choice and the criteria for one person from a rather broad college body and not having any for an institution of this scale is not logical, it is not normal. So this norm has to be much more detailed. Secondly, why the Prosecutor's College of the Supreme Judicial Council? It seems to me that at least the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council must make such a decision and even in the case of a qualified majority. That's the key! That is, this new institution, these European delegated prosecutors will have an extremely important role to play. Moreover, according to the regulation, they may not be prosecutors now before they become European delegated prosecutors. They may be people from another part of the justice system, judges, may be investigators who acquire the powers of prosecutor after their appointment as European Prosecutor General. I remind you that when Bulgaria broadcasts its candidates for the College of the European Prosecutor's Office, the Bulgarian State sent three applications to a prosecutor and one to an administrative judge, from Brussels elected the administrative judge. I mean, there's no reason to shut this down at the DA's office. This choice must be made at least by the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council, and we will propose that such a norm be made by a qualified majority. How many are these prosecutors? It doesn't say in the law. The regulation provides for two or more. Prosecutor General Ivan Geshev during the discussion of his Annual Report said that he said it needed at least three, but it is important to be written in our bill how many will be. This is a decision that must be agreed with the European Office of Prosecutors, but it must be taken by the Bulgarian Parliament.... cannot simply remain in the hands of the Prosecutors' College of the SJC, they should choose how many they are, accordingly, to change their number. There are still a lot of questions being asked. For example, will these prosecutors or others deal only with cases of the European Prosecutor's Office's competence? The regulation says: maybe both options. But for us, it seems important to say that these people will only deal with these matters. Why? For the simple reason that it is difficult to ensure its independence, when one file is carried out by the European Prosecutor and another file is submitted to the Prosecutor General in Bulgaria. Finally, I conclude with the fact that there is a trend and I think that the subtext of such a post bill is precisely this.. there is a tendency to drive everything somehow to specialized justice, to the specialized court, respectively to special prosecutors. A few months ago, amendments were adopted in the Code of Criminal Procedure, according to which cases under the jurisdiction of the European Public Prosecutor's Office will be tried by the specialized criminal court. This leads to consequences for the investigation of these crimes, and now, closed at the Prosecutor's College, it seems to me that, in this selection of staff, European delegated prosecutors may also be elected. Bulgaria needs to build a clear, competitive and transparent selection procedure in the context of the severe critical resolutions that we receive regarding the rule of law. The body that carries out this selection must also be in plenary with the corresponding majority, stressing the importance that we attach to the matter and doing our best not to come to the shameful situation in which we propose someone and he is rejected by Brussels. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, should there be such a law? Yes, you do! Is that law enough? No, it's not! Whether this is on purpose or because of insufficient competence, I am not hired to say. All I know is that there is still a lot of work to be done and that this independent delegated prosecutor will depend very much on this independent European prosecutor, namely putting order finally in the spending of the funds that we need. The EU funds in Bulgaria must finally get to where they are intended. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? Mr. Petrov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u10	Thank you, Madam President. At first glance, I, as an engineer, shouldn't be dealing with legal issues like the one that's being raised here, but I see people who were coaching, for example, football in Canada, dealing with power plants and other issues, and I also allow myself that. In this regard, I would like to tell you that what I heard from Mr. Zarkov is good and good, but it was primarily directed to the person: which person are we going to choose, who are we going to point out, what is this person going to do? [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria: "Where were you, in the hall? "]] Yeah, I was in the room listening to his irrigation statements about the Attorney General. I expected this clever man, whom I respect, because he is highly educated, very well prepared, to raise the question of what environment this prosecutor will work in. Do we have a law that regulates the work of European prosecutors in Bulgaria? Do we have that law? In what environment? There is such a law in Germany and now it is only corrected. So my line is this: whether he accidentally missed this moment, or simply his fixation was focused mainly on which aceba will be in Bulgaria, who will represent Europe and won't this person be and assist corruption in Bulgaria? That was his cue. I was very surprised about that.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u11	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Second line? I don't see a second line. Hole, Mr. Zarkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Petrov, with all due respect, you say at first glance that you should not take attitude, and after hearing you, I assure you, at second glance, you should not take it either. [[Laughter and applause from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] Whether there is a law on which this prosecutor will work, this is the item on the agenda on which we are thinking now. This is the law on which the Attorney General will work. And without fixing myself to his personality, I believe that yes, this person is important, but even more important are the rules that we are talking about and which we are considering. The essence of my speech is that they are insufficient and will create problems, on the one hand, in its direct functioning. However, I also draw attention to the question of the choice, because its closing in the Prosecutor's College can lead to such a choice to be challenged and rejected, and you, as a member of the Committee on European Affairs, understand that this will be another blow to Bulgaria's image and trust in our justice system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u13	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Any other speeches? Mr. Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! So signed, this bill does not provide answers to very important questions. Let us not forget that one of the main topics in the report and the Prosecutor General's report for the first half of the year was the subject of corruption and abuse of European funds. However, this bill is not at the height of the topic which should be addressed, both the fight against corruption and the protection of Bulgaria's interests in terms of the abuse of European funds, there is no criterion for who and by what procedure the delegated prosecutors propose. Let us not forget that in the Law on the Judiciary in practice you have signed, implemented in it an electoral code regarding the election of the members of the SJC. Here in nine or ten paragraphs you are trying to arrange a very important and complex matter, but obviously you are not dealing with this problem. It remains unclear why do you prejudge the issue that delegated European prosecutors can only be prosecutors and not judges? At the same time, in the bill itself you have clearly signed that the interested parties are all the courts in Bulgaria, but in the procedure you are bringing only the Prosecutor's College and not the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council. The question remains, why also judges, say, cannot be delegated to European prosecutors? It is not clear and the important question: how can their delegation be terminated? The question is also unclear: how many will these delegated prosecutors be? Yes, it is written in the Regulation: Not less than two, but how many more than two, will it be necessary, will it not be necessary, how much Bulgaria will broadcast, by what criteria, who will offer them? This is not written in this bill at all. It is obvious that he must be further worked. I hope that between first and second reading you will make some proposals, we will also make proposals, but for this bill it is known for more than a year that there should be one. Now, at the last moment, without public discussion, without proposals, let us not forget that there is also a negative opinion of the prosecution on this bill, you are trying to pass such a bill, which will practically not do the work for which it is intended to have a transparent, effective, efficient choice of delegated prosecutors dealing with this matter. At the same time, it is said in the Bill and you have made an attempt on their independence, but how will a delegated prosecutor be independent when in one case there is direct control by the above prosecutor and in another case there is none? This leads to big questions about the independence of delegated prosecutors, and I think you didn't do well here either. For these reasons, I personally will not support this bill, but I think our parliamentary group, at first reading. It is not the height of matter that should be settled through it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Will there be lines? Mr. Hristov, Mr. Ivo Hristov, please put on your mask! I don't see any lines to Mr. Popov's statement. Mrs. Nieva, come in for a statement, then Mr. Baichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u16	Dear Mrs Karayancheva, I want an extension of the time for our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u17	Increase the time of all parliamentary groups!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u18	Dear colleagues! A European Prosecutor's Office shall be established under the European Regulation 2017/1939. The earliest period for starting the work of this body is 20 November this year. It is therefore necessary and imperative that we bring our legislation into line with European requirements. Yes, such a law is necessary, changes are needed in our Criminal Procedure Code, but some of the above norms, to put it mildly, are becoming perplexing. We are talking about transparency in the management, but the text which my colleagues have pointed out, namely art. 30, para. 5, the creation of t. 19 is, in my opinion, an example of non-translucentness in the management. This text is also perplexing for the following reasons. Yes, colleagues made it clear why a selection should be carried out for the delegated European prosecutor by the candidates from the prosecutors' college. Nowhere in the European Regulation does it say that it is the delegated prosecutor who must be among the prosecutors. He should be a magistrate, and magistrates are judges, prosecutors and investigators who, after choosing this position, will acquire the status of a delegated prosecutor. In this text there are no clearly defined rules who, how, by what criteria will be broadcast and approved this prosecutor. We have adopted rules here for the selection of different positions, such as the President of the CEC, the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council and others, but in this text we have not written down the rules by which this delegated prosecutor will be broadcast, and can the other magistrates accept that this is discrimination against them? So, this text is talking about a total government eclipse. So we have expressed our opinion that we will not support this law in this form, it should be further developed and clear, concrete rules should be laid down for the selection of the delegated Bulgarian prosecutor, which is a very important position in the European Prosecutor's Office under its powers.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u19	Thank you, dear Mrs. Niva. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Baychev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u20	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! There must certainly be such a bill, but not as proposed by the Council of Ministers. What we are trying to say and emphasise is that there must be clear rules for the selection of delegated prosecutors who will implement, as they say, these rules on the ground. The regulation itself, which must be applied in the territory of the European Union, does not have enough precision and will create tensions if they are not included in the productions of the Bulgarian Criminal Procedure Code. I give an example, starting with how an indictment is filed and how this act can be seized by the monitoring prosecutor. However, some questions arise before us as a legislative body to which we owe an answer to the public, namely: what criteria will be met by the appointed delegated prosecutors; will they be independent, highly qualified and, above all, publicly acceptable persons, or will this position be a reward for people who are obedient and well performing their tasks by some political leadership? If the National Assembly stumbles in the same stone, namely to give the prosecutor's college the choice of delegated prosecutors, to this college, which proved that when a prosecutor is elected, a civil discontent, public tensions, protests will erupt. Will we, as a legislative body, propose clear and precise criteria for these delegated prosecutors to meet and be accepted not only in Bulgaria, but also in the European Prosecutor's Office, or will we again wait for the Venice Commission to give us recommendations on setting criteria for how to recall these prosecutors? I think that, as a legislative body, we should not make these mistakes, because in the end, these issues stand before us and we owe the public an answer as a legislative body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Baichev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! However, it seems to me that it is good to recall that the proposed draft law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure introduces the measures implementing Council Regulation 2017/1939 establishing enhanced cooperation for the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office on 31 October 2017. I remind you that, unlike the directives, regulations have direct effect and discretion is of each country, whether a Member of the European Union will adopt in national law an act which develops, explains and further specifies the provisions laid down in the regulation. In this case, it is the right initiative of the Ministry of Justice to propose changes to the Code of Criminal Procedure. About the changes in the PPC. I believe that they absolutely guarantee the independence of delegated prosecutors, which will be broadcast by the Bulgarian state. In practice, they will not be subject to the methodical instructions of the Prosecutor General, the above prosecutors, the administrative directors of the relevant prosecutors, but will only be subject to the methodological guidance of the Office of the European Prosecutor. In this sense, the independence required to carry out their work by the national authorities of the Prosecutor's Office is ensured by the proposed amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure. As regards the amendments to the Law on the Judiciary and the competent authority to carry out the selection, not to choose, to select candidates for European Delegated Prosecutors, as the proposal to be the Prosecutor's College is logical and is consistent with the fact that in the Constitution when determining the powers of the Prosecutor's College of the Supreme Judicial Council it is written that it exercises precisely the personnel selection of prosecutors in the prosecutions in the Republic of Bulgaria, it is logical that it should carry out such selection in relation to the delegated European Prosecutors. Whether the European Prosecutor's Office will comply with this selection, whether it will approve these applications proposed by the Prosecutor's College, this is already within the powers and discretion of the European Prosecutor's Office. There will be no choice from the DA's office. Doubts about its objectivity and impartiality will practically not affect the choice, as it will not make a choice, but will only propose candidates. The other provisions, which are included in the Law on the Judiciary, are practically implementing and further developing the provisions of the Regulation. Here is the place to say that there is absolutely no way that absolutely everything in the CPC and in the Law on the Judiciary can be recorded. Let us not forget that the Office of the European Prosecutor is new and there is still no practice anywhere in the other Member States of the European Union, both under the selection procedure and under the activities of delegated prosecutors of the Member States of the European Union. It is also not right for the law to include such case-law and the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Law on the Judiciary to include similar case-law texts. Moreover, there is no way to predict all cases that may arise. I believe that, at first reading, in view of the fact that the principles and objectives of the bill are supported here, this bill can be supported, already between the first and second votes being improved with proposals made, including by the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u23	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. - What's the line? I can't see. Statements? Declaration please, Mr. Mareshki, on behalf of a parliamentary group and I will give a speech to Mrs. Ninova. [[a line from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u24	Madam President, honourable Members! If GERB does not register today, they will fail their own vote and become a laughing stock. With their decision not to register GERB MPs demonstrate total helplessness to play the role of opposition. GERB are like a second-rate team who can't play his game and hinders the other team. They have decided to continue to expose themselves to the eyes of all Bulgarian citizens. Why are they acting like a Mahlenian football field? They will answer to their voters. Their behaviour is unheard of for Bulgarian parliamentaryism. The opposition demonstrates anti-parliamentary behaviour. Dear colleagues, this is a statement from 26 September 2013 of BSP, when they are ruling, and personally on their blade during their time Maya Manolova, who is also Vice-President of the National Assembly of BSP, before the media on the occasion of the opposition's refusal then Fortunately, we are now 2020 and there is a quorum. But smart people don't make mistakes with other people. If GERB's behaviour was then anti-parliamentary, it was a mistake, why is BSP repeating it one to one today? Why do they copy a reproached behavior? So when someone else does something bad, it's bad, and when they do it, it's good. Another example of BSP's double standards. I am not surprised that my prophecy of the breakup of the group and the need for more seats in the back row for independent MPs proved to be correct again. That's what a policy like this leads to. Dear colleagues, we are living in a very difficult time. Parliament must work at full speed to give security and stability to the people; in order to vote on the measures to help the Bulgarians go through with the least damage during this terrible crisis. Any abdication of responsibility to be a parliamentary at this time is a national betrayal. I guess that's what the BSP wants to remember them for. Nothing social, nothing patriotic, nothing socialistic is seen in their behavior or positions. I did not believe that the day would come precisely the left, supposedly a social party, to be against the measures to support the Bulgarians and the business. At least that's what I hear as their comments on the budget. BSP is against the people living better. Unbelievable, but a fact. We see the suicide of the old leftist party. Congratulations! Merakli to take their place has enough. However, we are here as responsible, mature people who have left their personal ambitions aside because now is not the time for them. I say this to Radev and Ninova and Manolova and others like them. Now is the time for national unification and care for the other care for doctors, nurses, policemen, teachers, enterprising Bulgarians, elderly people, children, mothers. Everyone expects us to make the necessary decisions to go through this crisis together. That is why Parliament should work in quality, not someone to play out scenes of insulted and disappointed. That is why we of the Vola will continue to be here, we will continue to support all the measures that are in defence of the Bulgarian doctors, teachers, policemen, for all the people who are currently failing, for all businesses and businessmen who are having difficulties dealing with the consequences of the CIVID crisis. We will be on the side of the Bulgarian people and help them survive. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the Bulgarian Rhodolists.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u26	Procedure in the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u27	Procedure in the manner of conduct............................................................................................... [[Heckling]] I wasn't leading, I was silent.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u28	Thank you. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! When it comes to Penal Code, to the prosecution, to pre-trial proceedings, I ask you to warn the speaker of this tribune when speaking on such a subject, at least to declare a conflict of interest because he is sentenced to two instances. [[Arrival in GERB.]] Don't give him the word, don't give him the word!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u29	Mr. Popov, we cleaned this up a while ago.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u30	We understand that you have to spit on BSP to save yourself that is understandable, but do not give the floor to condemned to two instances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u31	This was a declaration on behalf of a group of chairmen of a parliamentary group. Mrs. Ninova, come in for a statement. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u32	Madam President, honourable Members! Let's get back to the bill under consideration, the changes in the PPC and the Judicial Law. To a very large extent, this is a legal, legal issue. But even more so, it's a matter of state. Dear Bulgarian citizens, the European funds we receive are extremely important for growth in the economy and for improving social living conditions. Even more important will be in the coming years when they will be useful to our country for recovery from the CIVID crisis. Which is one of Bulgaria's biggest problems during the management of GERB? [[(Comments from GERB: You! BSP!]] Corruption! [[Voices from GERB: "Eee! "]] In the last report on monitoring the rule of law and the resolution of the European Parliament, there are several sentences. One of them is very revealing. It is said that European funds go to close to the management companies and that measures should be taken against it. We are going to have the funds that we receive from the European Union to be bound by the rule of law. And European prosecutors, who will choose the Member States, will deal with this very issue, how European funds are spent. It is extremely important who will represent Bulgaria in the European Prosecutor's Office, but even more important is how these people will be selected. How will we choose undisputed authorities, professionals, free from addictions and honest magistrates? How will we guarantee their transparent choice? The proposal made by the Council of Ministers answers: none! The proposal of the Council of Ministers states: The Prosecutors' College shall select candidates for European delegated prosecutors. How many prosecutors, esteemed governors, do you propose Bulgaria to have? Because the terms say two or more. Do you have any idea how much Bulgaria will broadcast in the European Prosecutor's Office? I can see from your eyes that no. [[Arrival in GERB.]] What criteria should these people meet? If someone can get up from the stands and say what criteria you bet to meet: how many years of professional experience do they have, in which part of the judiciary should they be? Do you have an answer for that? It's also obvious that he didn't. [[Arrival in GERB.]] You don't have it in the Law, you don't have it now. The next question to the government: who offers these people? Gentlemen of the Legal Committee at least............................................................................................ who offers them? The DA's office, non-governmental organizations, the Council of Ministers, the parliament, the president, who? [[GERB lines.]] You don't have an answer to that either, obviously. That is why we will not support this bill, not just because it does not answer these questions, because it is a danger. What? First, the Bulgarian European prosecutors should be broadcast opaquely. But the bigger one, if you don't think partyly, if you don't think conjuncturally, and think stately and beyond a term of office, you'll remember that the biggest problem of politics today is people's mistrust of the political system, the justice system, the lack of a sense of justice. This is the great challenge, if you think stately and with vision, not conjunctural and termal! What do you accomplish with what you're offering? The way in which you will choose the European prosecutors will strengthen the mistrust and, unfortunately, the Euroscepticism of the Bulgarian people. Do you understand the damage you do to statehood long-term? You know the big problem right now is mistrust, right, in everyone? Do you know that we have to decide, do you want to decide? Apparently not. What will be the result of this increase in mistrust, strengthening euroscepticism. Who's that helping? No one. And above all, Bulgaria is not helping. We turn to all the extraparliamentary parties, to those who stood for tens of days at the protests in the squares with the people, and wanted justice and rule of law: do not be silent today! We are here for the parliamentary opposition, and we are not silent! But you, too, who brought the people to this just cause, where are you today? I'm addressing you. And in this case, party selfishness will lead to the result that I have told you about - distrust and euroscepticism. This is not only a legal issue.. the transparent choice of honest and independent people, brave to investigate everything to the end, but also a step towards restoring trust and strengthening statehood. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. - What's the line? Mrs. Atanasova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Ms. Ninova, I am taking a reply on the first part of your speech about the credibility of the government, about your reference to the European Commission's Resolution and reports, and I am obliged to remind you of the time when because of corruption and because of violations of public procurement procedures the funds from the European funds for Bulgaria were stopped. That was when you were Deputy Minister, if I'm not mistaken. [[Applause from GERB.]] 2008 "Frozen funds under pre-accession programmes ISPA, PHARE, Sapard. Why? Corruption and Organized Crime! There have been violations under the ISPA and the funds for the construction of the highway have been stopped. Do you remember how your party leader and prime minister Mr. Stanishev then opened a number of highways, Lyulin and Sofia Airport and the second bridge at the Danube? The second bridge at the Danube was built and finished with European funds under the government of Borisov. System irregularities have been detected at SAPARD. Funds under the farm renewal programmes have been suspended. The funds have been stopped in 2008 and 2009 under ISPA, Sapard and PHARE, and have been restored when returning the trust of our European partners in the management of GERB and Boyko Borisov. 2013 The funds under the Operational Programme "Environment and Regional Development" are suspended. When BSP announced that it would build South Stream, the funds from the European Commission were stopped at the moment. Are you going to tell me about a lack of trust in the government, too? [[Applause from GERB.]] These are indisputable facts that, although...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u35	The weather, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u36	...as an opposition leader you may be obliged to comment from the stand, but as a statesman, if you intend to be one, you should take note. When do our European partners trust in Bulgaria? When he manages GERB and Borisov! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u37	Thank you. Second line? I can't see. It's a hole, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u38	Mrs. Atanasova, starting with the least important one is always the least important when talking about state policy. You're wrong. I wasn't a deputy minister in 2008. Secondly, my name is Cornelia Ninova, not Sergei Stanishev. And third, if you want after 11 years of government to still justify your past, stay there, in the past. We are now 2020 and statesmen need to think about the present and the future, and what they see in the present is a drawer full of money and a gun to the prime minister's head to protect them! [[GERB lines]] [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Any other speeches? Mr. Mareshki, then Mr. Zipov for speaking. Here you go, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u40	Madam President, honourable Members! Madam President, I would like to ask you, when it comes to corruption, not to give the floor to MPs from the party, which in the greatest way and occasion is related to corruption, to the robbing of the Bulgarian people, to the bankrupt banks, with the lack of opportunity for people to receive decent pensions and, above all, if these are what the leader of this party is talking about, who usually quite often throws obvious lies into the public domain. [[a line from BSP for Bulgaria: "This is GERB. "]] [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u41	Wait for Mr. Mareshki to make a comment to me right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u42	In order not to be naked, I'll just remind you that about 15 days ago, when six people from BSP left the group...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u43	Mr. Mareshki, what does this have to do with...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u44	...there was a statement by the chairman of the BSP who claimed that no one would ever leave again, and we see that to date this turns out to be an ugly lie. [[Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria "What does this have to do with it?"]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u45	Mr. Mareshki, let the remark be made to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u46	I'm just gonna finish because I hear a lot of BSP calls. Thank God, I don't have the honor, and I hope I never get to know Bye Stavri, but I see that the BSP group knows him pretty well, they know who Bye Stavri is, and what he can do to them. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u47	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u48	Last sentence, because I don't have any information about any of them being a prisoner, means they go around prisons quite often at night. Thank you. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria: By Stavri is waiting for you!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u49	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. Mr. Zipov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u50	Thank you, Madam President. Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, let us return to the substance of the debate. Today we are looking at the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Criminal Procedure Code with amendments to the Law on the Judiciary regarding procedures for selection of candidates for European delegated prosecutors. A number of untruths have been repeated by the previous MPs from BSP for Bulgaria, which I will try briefly to disprove. We have heard that in Bulgaria, in the Prosecutors' College of the Supreme Judicial Council, we will elect European delegated prosecutors. That's not true! This is evident and quite clearly written in the Regulation which defines the functions of the European Prosecutor's Office. It states very clearly that the Member States designate candidates as European Delegated Prosecutors and the European Prosecutor's Offices themselves as the College and the European Prosecutor-General appoint these European Delegated Prosecutors, that is to say, in this bill, we regulate the procedure to designate candidates and not European Delegated Prosecutors. Dear colleagues, if you had read this regulation more carefully to actually see what the procedures are! Secondly, it has been repeated several times that the prosecutors' college will make selection of candidates and that they will only be prosecutors. Let me draw attention to the change proposed in the Law on the Judiciary in art. 198 as well as the selection procedure for candidates for European Delegated Prosecutors. The selection procedure includes reviewing the attestation of the respective magistrate, and what the Council of Ministers proposes as a change in the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law on the Judiciary is quite clear. There it says: their time served by the judge, prosecutor and investigator, as European Delegated Prosecutors, and their assessment of the results of their work under Regulation (EU) 2017/1939 are also included in the period of attestations. Here's the second untrue fact that the DA's office will elect only prosecutors. It is very clear what is the procedure, honourable Members. Let us not distort what is written in this bill, let us support it in principle. Surely there are some imperfections in it that can be corrected. With regard to the number of European Delegated Prosecutors. It is no coincidence in the Regulation that there is a record of no less than two (s) so that each Member State can assess how much to propose and subsequently assess how many of these candidates will be validated. I see no obstacle to clarify that the number of candidates Bulgaria will propose as European delegated prosecutors may be no less than two and no more than three, four or five. I do not see any obstacle to this, but the question is whether we will not limit our country to offering enough good applications to be approved by the European Prosecutor and to work as European delegated prosecutors. I will conclude with this, honourable Members of Parliament: I believe that the Bill provides sufficiently clear frameworks, because much of the things are written in the regulation itself. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u51	Thank you, dear Mr. Tzipov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Zarkov. First line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u52	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Madam President! Dear Mr. Tzipov, whenever it comes to European directives, regulations and reports, you tell us that we do not read them well. Then there's another report that says more clearly what we told you before. It is now so that we have read the Regulation. There is no procedure in the Regulation and it is deliberately left to the Member States and this procedure must be written. So in the form of a line, I ask you clear questions, and you in the back answer and we stop the argument. How many will be chosen among all prosecutors, among all judges, without criteria for internship, competence and so on? On a proposal from whom is every member of the SJC, only the SJC Prosecutor's College, several members of the SJC, NGOs? By whom? Where do we start? You say: could be judges, prosecutors, investigators. That's what we say! That's why we're asking you: since they may be judges, prosecutors and investigators, why should only the DA's office choose them? This is our criticism essentially because you know or don't know, but the bill is written so that if it doesn't show the right person or people you may have already defined, it shows from which circles to choose it. I think I'm clear enough. In conclusion: the number remains and really must determine it our state, but the question is which institution is we as a parliament through the Law or the Prosecutor's College in relation to the needs it itself finds? That's the question. Don't tell us we haven't read the regulation or the law! Dear Mr. Tzipov, we have read it very well and are watching us from Europe and in Bulgaria in how we approach this issue. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u53	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Second line? I beg the Members of the National Assembly to put on their masks or leave the Chamber. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u54	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Tzipov, my line will be a kind of continuation of what Mr. Zarkov started because, trying from this tribune to find in some way gaps in our valid claims that, you see, we are not reading the European regulation correctly on the contrary, Mr. Tzipov, there is a gap with you. It is no accident that European colleagues have left the opportunity here to draw up precise and clear rules for the selection of a representative in the European Prosecutor's Office by the respective country, in this case Bulgaria. You yourself said and contradicted yourself that having the opportunity of all the magistrates' palettes to choose the necessary candidate, you restrict the possibility in a college. What we are doing at the moment with our proposal will be chosen by the highest, most serious, the largest group of the forum, by a qualified majority, Mr. Tzipov, so that there is no shadow of doubt in regard to either the candidacy, if it is determined already or in the way in which it is proceeding in such situations. So your claims in the direction that BSP is trying to sabotage are absolutely unfounded. On the contrary, BSP is trying to wash away this stain, which is put in the latest report of the European Commission on Bulgaria. And if you understand this as soon as possible, you will find a way to remove all this criticism that is put on our part of our European partners, because, being adopted the Law in the way you are now proposing it, this shadow of doubt will not only remain, but will weigh for years to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u55	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Is there a third line? I don't see anyone who wants to. Mr. Tzipov, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u56	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Zarkov, don't read the regulation. It is quite clear what the procedure is - who offers the candidates and who approves them. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] That's right! Read the Law on the Judiciary, honourable MPs from BSP for Bulgaria. Look at the procedures. Yes, we can say that there is a resonant in what you have said that the number should be indicated whether it should be specific or in some frames. However, it is also true that if we state a specific number, or give some frameworks, we can still limit ourselves in proposing good candidates, to whom I stress again, their applications will be evaluated, will be appointed by the structures of the European Prosecutor's Office, dear Mr. Ivanov. [[Replication by National Representative Ivan Valentinov Ivanov.]] Who will propose these applications is the right of every member of the Prosecutor's College. Make your suggestions for the Plenum as well. Why shouldn't such a hypothesis be discussed? What's wrong with that? But in the end, this is what the Bulgarian Constitution and the Bulgarian Law on the Judicial Authority are currently saying. The applications for prosecutors and investigators are being examined and validated by the Prosecutors' College of the Supreme Judicial Council.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u57	Thank you, Mr. Tzipov. Are there any other speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm calling off the debate. We are going to vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, No 002-01-52, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 October 2020. They voted 163 MPs: 95 against 7, abstention 61. The bill was passed at first reading. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR BULGARIAN CIVILITY. Importers: Andon Donchev and a group of MPs from 27 July 2017; the Council of Ministers of 8 October 2019; Yordan Tsonev and a group of MPs from 20 March 2020; the Council of Ministers of 27 March 2020. Report of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Who's gonna deliver the report? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u58	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I present to your attention. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship, No 754-01-49, submitted by Andon Dimov Donchev and a group of MPs on 27 July 2017. At its meeting held on 27 October 2020, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship, No 754-01-49, submitted by Andon Dimov Donchev and a group of MPs on 27 July 2017. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Justice: Mr. Evgeni Stoyanov Deputy Minister, Mrs. Ludmila Vasileva Director of the Directorate of the Bulgarian Citizenship and the Ministry of Internal Affairs: Mr. Todor Dragnev Head of the Department of Legal Affairs and the Ministry of Economy: Mrs. Elena Pistovlevleveva Director of the Directorate of Promotional Measures and Projects. From the Ministry of Internal Affairs: Mr. Todor Dragnev Head of the Department of Legal Migration and Bulgarian Citizenship. From the Administration of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria: Mrs. Natalia Visourova Chief Expert at the Commission on Bulgarian Citizenship; from the State Agency of National Security; Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetanov Director of the Specialized Directorate; from the State Agency for the Bulgarians abroad: Mr. Dimitar Vladimirov Executive President. The Law aims to harmonise Bulgarian legislation with the requirements of the European Convention on Citizenship, as well as to facilitate the procedure for acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship by people of Bulgarian origin living abroad. The project creates an opportunity for Bulgarian origin to be proved by documents issued by Bulgarian or foreign state authorities, by organizations of Bulgarians living outside the Republic of Bulgaria, recognized by a state authority, as well as by the Bulgarian Orthodox Church. The possibility of proof of Bulgarian origin with a certificate issued by the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad is preserved and the possibility of establishing Bulgarian origin is created by law. The bill provides for a one-month period within which the Ministry of Justice will adopt the Rules of Procedure for recognition of organizations of Bulgarians living outside Bulgaria, as well as an obligation to maintain an electronic register of all persons who have acquired, restored or lost Bulgarian citizenship. The proposed amendments do not introduce regulatory regimes and charges and will not result in an increase in state costs. On the proposed bill was adopted Opinion by the Ministry of Justice. In the discussion of the Bill took part the MPs Krum Zarkov, Christian Mitev and Christian Vigenin, who said they would not support the proposed draft. Mr. Zarkov and Mr. Mitev agreed that the project lacks criteria and order in which organizations outside Bulgaria will be recognized by the Bulgarian state authorities. Mr. Vigenin pointed out that the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad should not have a central role in the certification procedure of Bulgarian origin. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 0 votes..... 7 votes against............................................................................... and 11 votes..................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Kostadinova. Next report, who's gonna present it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship, No 902-01-51, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 October, and the Draft Law supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship, No 002-01-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 March 2020. At its meeting held on 27 October, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the bills. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Justice: Mr. Evgeni Stoyanov Deputy Minister, Mrs. Ludmila Vasileva, Director of the Directorate of the Bulgarian Citizenship (Bulgarian citizenship), Mrs. Daniela Belchina, State Expert at the Department of Law and the Ministry of Economy: Mrs. Elena Pistovlevleveva, Director of the Directorate of Promotional Measures and Projects (in Bulgarian) and by the Ministry of Interior: Mr. Todor Dragnev (in Bulgarian) Head of the Department of Legal Migration and Bulgarian Citizenship (in Bulgarian) and by the Administration of the President: Mrs. Natalia Kirova, Chief Expert at the Commission on Bulgarian Citizenship; by the State Agency of National Security (in Bulgarian) Mr. Tsvetan Tzvetanov, Director of the Specialized Directorate; by the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad: Mr. Dimitar Vladimirov, President. On behalf of the importer, the bills were presented by Mr. Stoyanov, who pointed out that they aim to specify the rules on the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship and to ensure legal clarity on the application of the provisions concerning the United Kingdom as a Member State of the European Union, both during the transitional period and after its expiry. The Deputy Minister noted that the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship, No 902-01-51 removes the possibility of acquiring Bulgarian citizenship on naturalization by persons who received permission for permanent residence on the grounds of art. 25, para. 1, t. 6 and so on. 7 of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria or of members of their family, and when they increased their investment to at least two million levs under the same conditions of the Law. He added that an obligation is created to motivate the ministers' proposals for acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship when the Republic of Bulgaria has an interest in naturalization of the person or when it has special merit to our country in the public or economic sphere, in the field of science, technology, culture and sport. The Law establishes an obligation for applicants to notify the Ministry of Justice of any change in the facts and circumstances related to the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship and, in the event of failure to comply with this obligation, naturalization will be abolished. A reduction of the time limits for the decision of the institutions in separate stages of the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship is proposed, creating an obligation to update their opinions in due time when changing. Mr. Stoyanov pointed out that the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship provides for an opportunity to acquire Bulgarian citizenship by a person who is a national of a Member State of the European Union, of a State of a Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, or of the Swiss Confederation, without the need to exempt that person from his previous nationality. After the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union, British citizens applying for Bulgarian citizenship will have to give up their former citizenship as they will be treated as third-country nationals. Mr. Stoyanov noted that with a Bill for Supplement to the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship, No 002-01-13, an opportunity was created for citizens of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland who applied for the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship to enjoy the rights of citizens of a Member State of the European Union until the end of the proceedings, which began with an application filed before the expiry of the previous period, which was until 31 December 2020. The proposed bill does not contain provisions transposing EU acts, does not introduce regulatory regimes and does not affect the state budget. During the discussions Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship, No 902-01-51, opinions were received from the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and individuals. In the discussion of the bills took part the MPs Krum Zarkov, Christian Mitev and Alexander Ivanov, who stated their support for the bills. Mr. Zarkov pointed out that he approved the proposed reduction of the time limits in the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship and the abolition of the citizenship and added that changes were also needed in the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship on the basis of Bulgarian origin. Following the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs shall: - with 18 votes in favour, without the opposition and abstention, he proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship, No 902-01-51, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 October 2019; - with 18 votes in favour, without the opposition and abstention, he proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote the Draft for Supplement to the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship, No 002-01-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 March 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Who will present the third report? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I will introduce you to ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Legal Affairs on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship, No 054-01-26, submitted by Yordan Kirilov Tsonev and a group of people representatives on 20 March 2020 At its meeting, the Committee on Legal Affairs examined the above bill. [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u63	Please be quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u64	The meeting was attended by: Mr. Evgeni Stoyanov, Deputy Minister, Mrs. Ludmila Vasileva, Director of the Directorate of the Bulgarian Citizenship and Mrs. Daniela Belchina, State Expert at the Directorate of the Ministry of Law and by the Ministry of Economy Mrs. Elena Pistovloveva, Director of Directorate, Promotional Measures and Projects and by the Ministry of Internal Affairs Mr. Todor Dragnev, Head of the Department of Legal Migration and Bulgarian Citizenship; by the Administration of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria Ms. Natalia Visourova, Senior Expert at the Committee on Bulgarian Citizenship; by the State Agency Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetanov. The Bill aims to create an up-to-date investment framework that meets the needs of the economy and world trends, as well as to improve investment control. The draft law improves the opportunities for acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship on naturalization by persons who have received permission for permanent residence on grounds of investments made under the terms and conditions of the Foreigners Act in the Republic of Bulgaria. The possibility of acquiring Bulgarian citizenship through an investment in government securities is proposed, a contract for trust management with a licensed credit institution or an increase in investment of up to two million levs is proposed. The investments in long-term investments and jobs, including projects certified under the Investment Promotion Act, are encouraged by restoring the possibility of acquiring Bulgarian citizenship by making investments in relation to priority investment projects in the process of realization. More favourable conditions are created for the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship in the naturalization of the spouses of investors who acquired Bulgarian citizenship on the basis of long-term investments. The draft law establishes an obligation to declare any change in terms of investment within two years of the naturalization of the person, with the failure to comply with that obligation leading to the cancellation of naturalisation. The possibilities for monitoring investment are also extended, providing that the investments on the basis of which a permanent residence permit is granted are maintained throughout the period of residence. The draft was discussed by the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Bulgarian Association of Management Companies and the Bulgarian Association of Licensed Investment Mediators. In the discussion of the Bill took part the MPs Krum Zarkov, Christian Mitev and Alexander Ivanov. Mr. Zarkov pointed out that he does not approve of the philosophy of the Bill, which is why he will not support it. Mr. Mitev and Mr. Ivanov expressed their support for the Bill and united around the opinion that it is being refined and speeded up procedures for acquiring Bulgarian citizenship, including through the implementation of long-term investments. Following the vote, the Committee on Legal Issues with 5 votes for........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Ilieva. Are there any statements on behalf of the importers? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u66	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! By proposals of your attention Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship, No 754-01-49, submitted by Andon Dimov Donchev and a group of MPs on 27 July 2017, it aims to harmonise Bulgarian legislation with the requirements of the European Convention on Citizenship, as well as to facilitate the administrative procedure for acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship by persons of Bulgarian origin living abroad. The project creates an opportunity for Bulgarian origin to be proved by documents issued by Bulgarian or foreign state authorities by organizations of Bulgarians living outside the Republic of Bulgaria, recognized by a state authority, and they are presented directly to the Ministry of Justice without the need to pass the procedures in the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad. The possibility of proof of Bulgarian origin with a certificate issued by the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad is preserved. In the absence or inability to submit such documents, it is possible to establish Bulgarian origin by law and it is envisaged that the Ministry of Justice will establish and maintain an electronic register for all persons who have acquired, restored or lost their Bulgarian citizenship. Dear colleagues, despite the increased interest in Bulgarian citizenship and the light order provided for in the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria for its acquisition by people of Bulgarian origin, persons from this category are faced with a number of difficulties in verifying the Bulgarian origin of applicants. These difficulties are due to the discrepancies in the ways of proof of Bulgarian origin provided for in the Law on Bulgarians living outside Bulgaria and in the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship. In their last incorporated as evidence are only certificates of Bulgarian origin issued by Bulgarian State Authority in the specific case by the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad. The Bulgarian Citizenship Act does not include the other documents and means of proof of Bulgarian origin, described in the Bulgarians living outside Bulgaria Act, namely documents issued by a foreign state authority, by an organization of Bulgarians living outside the Republic of Bulgaria, recognised by the competent Bulgarian state authority for maintaining relations with them or by the Bulgarian Orthodox Church. We are often witnessing paradoxes in the process of acquiring Bulgarian citizenship. It reached the point that two siblings received different decisions. One was approved as a Bulgarian citizen and the other was refused citizenship. In practice, persons holding this type of documents for proof of Bulgarian origin are forced to be recorded twice for admission at the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad, to submit applications and to wait for receipt of a certificate of origin, then to submit documents to the Ministry of Justice, an activity which, by its nature, duplicates the original document of Bulgarian origin. On the one hand, this creates difficulties for applicants of Bulgarian origin living in different parts of the world. On the other hand, the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad is experiencing enormous difficulties in issuing these duplicate certificates due to the limited number of its specialized administration. This leads to a systematic failure to comply with the envisaged period of one month for issuing certificates, which makes it difficult for the process of acquiring Bulgarian citizenship, it is usually a year or two, which gives rise to discontent among our compatriots abroad and creates a negative image of the Republic of Bulgaria. The administrative over-employment of the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad hinders the ability to direct staff and resources towards the implementation of their other activities. With the proposed amendments and additions of interested Bulgarians abroad and especially representatives of the historical Bulgarian communities abroad will improve their administrative service in the process of acquiring Bulgarian citizenship. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I suggest that you support the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship submitted by Andon Dimov Donchev and a group of MPs on 27 July 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u67	Thank you, Mr. Netsov. Importer's Opinion. Welcome, Mr. Hamid, under Law No 054-01-26.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u68	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The proposals under this Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship are primarily aimed at achieving a balance between the public interest, that of the state in the context of developing a competitive economic policy for attracting foreign direct investment. The amendments and additions of the project provide an alternative to the proposed changes with the LID of the Bulgarian Citizenship Act, prepared by the Ministry of Justice and submitted by the Council of Ministers. The proposed project contains the following main points: The project offers a comprehensive optimization of the opportunities for acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship in naturalization by persons who have received permanent residence on the basis of investments made under the terms and conditions of the Foreigners Act in the Republic of Bulgaria. The main objective of the changes is to create an up-to-date investment framework that meets the needs of the economy and global trends, as well as to improve investment control. The sought goals are achieved by cumulative and binding changes in the Bulgarian Citizenship Act and the Foreigners Act in the Republic of Bulgaria. The included changes offer even at the stage of designing and dropping the opportunities for acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship on grounds of investments in government securities or under a trust management contract with a licensed credit institution, as well as in relation to other envisaged but practically non-usable options. The naturalization option by increasing the investment to 2 million, respectively. lv. for those types of investments. The proposed change aims, on the one hand, to eliminate the possibilities for abuse or circumvention of the Law for the purposes of acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship, while achieving the promotion of investments in the capital market and concession rights. Among other changes, the project encourages investments in long-term investments and jobs. Thus, the expansion is achieved again at the stage of designing the possibilities for attracting foreign direct investment. In addition, investments in fixed assets and jobs under projects certified under the Investment Promotion Act are encouraged and stimulated. With regard to the latter, it is proposed to create new opportunities for direct investment, priority investment projects. First of all, a proposal is made to create a new naturalization option based on a new option to acquire permanent residence. Next, a restoration of the possibility of making investments in connection with priority investment projects in the process of realization, available until the relevant legal changes in the Law, promulgated in the Official Gazette, are proposed. 22, of 24 March 2015 From the point of view of the statistics from 2012 to the present time, under the terms and conditions of the Investment Promotion Act, a priority investment project certificate has received only seven projects, of which two are completed, five are in the process of realization, and three of them are extended. The above proposals are of direct importance for creating a successful environment for attracting, developing and implementing local economy priority projects where minimum investment is between 15 and 100 million. BGN, the number of new jobs will be between 15 and 150. This project also offers a new basis for naturalization in relation to direct investments in tangible assets worth at least one million leva and cumulative creation of at least 20 new jobs. In view of the established legal organizational deficiencies related to the production of Bulgarian citizenship, which allow in the event of obstruction of facts the Bulgarian State to give citizenship, additions to the draft Law on Bulgarian Citizenship are proposed. At present, there is no legal mechanism to control investments in relation to naturalization under art. 14a. With the current project for the persons under art. 14a A new obligation is created to declare any change or absence in the circumstances of the investment in a period of time since naturalization. In all cases, the relevant evidence is also required. Failure to fulfil the obligation by declaring the change is the basis for abolishing naturalisation. That change requires active investor behaviour in order to fulfil their obligations to maintain their holdings. In this way, the deficiencies in the current legislation are also addressed. At the same time, the control functions and processes by the competent authorities and the detection of infringements shall also be facilitated. Additional proposals are made in connection with the creation of favorable conditions for naturalization of the spouses of investors who acquired Bulgarian citizenship on the grounds of art. 14a. The aim of the proposal is to promote and facilitate the opportunities for establishing investors and their families in the country and strengthen relations with it. The Bill expands the opportunities for control over investors by proposing amendments to the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. With the change in art. 40, para. 1, t. 1 it is explicitly regulated that the deposits that have become the basis for granting permanent residence should be maintained throughout the acquisition period. The establishment of the latter circumstance allows for timely control and sanctioning of non-retaining infringements, respectively early liquidation of investments, even at the stage of acquired right of permanent residence. In accordance with the principle of proportionality, as set out in that Article, this Regulation does not go beyond what is necessary in order to achieve that objective. The latter circumstance is an absolute obstacle to naturalization and grounds for the Council of Citizenship, respectively for the Minister of Justice to rule with a proposal not to issue a decree for the granting of Bulgarian citizenship. Not at the last place, with the proposed change, improves the regulatory framework, explicitly defining the period within which each of the investments must be maintained. The proposed Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Bulgarian Citizenship Act directly fulfils the objectives set in the government's programme. The adoption of the proposals and additions to the Law will help the processes of attracting foreign direct investment to the country's economy, while at the same time creating sustainable guarantees for the availability and effect of these investments, as will optimize the control of compliance with the legislation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u69	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. Mr. Lazarov, let us know about the Report of the Commission on Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence tools and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u70	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Bulgarian Citizenship Act, No 902-01-51, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 08 October 2019. At a meeting held on 7 November 2019 the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship, No 902-01-51, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 08 October 2019. The Law proposes to waive the possibility of acquiring Bulgarian citizenship on naturalization by persons who have received permission for permanent residence in the Republic of Bulgaria due to investments made on the grounds of art. 25, para. 1, t. 6 and 7 of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria or as members of the family of such persons, or have increased their investment under the same conditions of the Law worth at least two million levs. There is also explicitly a requirement to motivate the ministers' proposals in cases of acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship, where the Republic of Bulgaria has an interest in the naturalization of the person or if the same has merit in the Republic of Bulgaria in the public and economic sphere, in the field of science, technology, culture or sport. An obligation is also established for the institutions concerned in the proceedings under Bulgarian citizenship. The Ministry of Interior and the State Agency. National Security................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Mr. Dimitar Georgiev, Chairman of the State Agency, expressed his position on the draft. He said that the proposed bill aims to cross the abuse of the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship and finds it necessary to adopt the bill, insofar as it introduces measures relating to the protection of national sovereignty and national security. After the discussion, the Commission, with 5 votes for the European Parliament, with no opposition, and 2 votes abstentions, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for amendment and supplement to the Bulgarian Citizenship Act, No 902-01-51, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 08 October 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u71	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. Who will present the Report of the Bulgarian Policy Committee abroad?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u72	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship, No 754-01-49, submitted by Andon Donchev and a group of MPs on 27 July 2017. The Committee on Policies for Bulgarians Abroad at a regular meeting held on 11 October 2017, discussed and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship, No 754-01-49, submitted by Andon Donchev and a group of MPs on 27 July 2017. On behalf of the importers The Law was presented by Andon Donchev. The bill provides for an improvement of the current Law on Bulgarian Citizenship, in which the proof of the Bulgarian origin of the applicants is carried out only by a document issued by a Bulgarian state authority, in this case with a certificate issued by the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad. The proposed amendment of the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship makes it clear that only in the absence of documents of Bulgarian origin originating in the country of origin or from the Bulgarian State is required the presentation of a certificate issued by the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad. This will greatly ease the procedure for acquiring Bulgarian citizenship from people living abroad who are of Bulgarian origin. The project provides that within one month of the entry into force of the Law the Council of Ministers will adopt the Rules of Procedure for recognition of organizations of Bulgarians living outside the borders of the Republic of Bulgaria. This measure will lay down regulatory rules regarding the activities of these organizations, as well as mechanisms for control of their activities, as well as an explicit indication of the obligation of the Citizenship Council at the Ministry of Justice to motivate its decisions on applications for the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship, restoration and exemption, as well as the cancellation of naturalization. The same obligation is provided for the Minister of Justice for the proposal under art. 34 of the Law. This obligation stems from the requirement of the European Convention on Citizenship, which is in force for the Republic of Bulgaria from 1 June 2006. It is proposed to arrange for the electronic register for individuals who have acquired Bulgarian citizenship in naturalization, who have restored their Bulgarian citizenship and lost Bulgarian citizenship by granting their own application, deprivation or cancellation of naturalization. The current amendments and additions to the Bulgarian Citizenship Act aim to harmonise the Bulgarian legislation with the requirements of the European Convention on Citizenship, taking into account the Bulgarian national interests. The Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship has received opinions from the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Interior and the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad. The opinions of the institutions were presented by: Petar Haralampiev at the time Chairman of the State Agency for Bulgarians Abroad; Desislava Ahladova at the time Deputy Minister of Justice, Krasimir Tsipov then Deputy Minister of Interior, and Tanya Karakash from the State Agency National Security. In the course of the debate, the people's representative Boris Vangelov took the position, who expressed his fears that the proposed bill is practically impossible and that with its adoption there could be chaos. In defence of the Bill Andon Donchev pointed out that the applicant for Bulgarian citizenship, even if he has the documents mentioned in the Law on Bulgarians living abroad, cannot apply without a document from the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad, which basically means that he cannot use his right given to him by the Law and submit documents directly to the Ministry of Justice. According to him, the proposed changes and the adoption of the Rules for the Implementation of the Law will enable the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad to certify Bulgarian origin in broader frameworks and parameters than the three documents mentioned so far. The discussion included the People's Representative Julian Angelov, who firmly expressed his position that the proof of origin should not be in the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship at all because there is a Law on Bulgarians living outside the Republic of Bulgaria, where are the members who concern the proof of Bulgarian origin as a whole. He expressed his concerns about the duplication of laws and the possibility of two institutions proving the same thing by describing this practice as ineffective. People's representative Desislava Kostadinova expressed the position of colleagues from GERB's parliamentary group in the Commission that the proposed motives in the bill are not sufficiently justified. At this stage, they refrain from supporting the Bill in order to consider an option in which to really seek ease. The changes should be made so as to be beneficial for better work and interaction between the different institutions and our compatriots applying for Bulgarian citizenship. National Representative Tanner Ali told the Commission about problems in the issue of documents by the Ministry of Justice and the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad. According to him, the lack of communication between citizens and institutions leads to delays in procedures and compliance with the established deadlines. In conclusion, the President of the Commission Andon Donchev, based on the opinions received by the institutions and the discussion held during the meeting, called on the MPs to support the proposed changes so. In the subsequent vote, the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians Abroad with 8 votes for the European Parliament and 9 votes for the European Parliament did not approve the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Bulgarian Citizenship Act, No 754-01-49, submitted by Andon Donchev and a group of MPs on 27 July 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u73	Thank you, Mr. Manev. I am opening the debates on the submitted bills. Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! The topic of Bulgarian citizenship concerns everyone, it also concerns our European partners, from which we receive a number of critical remarks. Today's discussion is dictated by the latest such critical remarks that we have received not only in the Report but also by a letter from the Commissioner concerned. I would like to refer to the bill which has been tabled by the members of the Temporary Committee on Bulgarian Citizenship. I would like to say that it would be good in the Chamber, I appeal to you to support it in order to develop between first and second reading a joint bill and to refine all possibilities for obtaining Bulgarian citizenship, including the possibility of investment citizenship, as is also called. I assure you, the members of the Commission of all the parliamentary groups who participated in the Commission know that this bill was made very carefully and almost by consensus, although the representatives of the BSP did not sign it, they also took part with speeches and opinions on the bill. This is about the following: our European partners' comments on investment citizenship are absolutely correct and correct. So far, the current possibility is, in fact, a circumvention of investment and obtaining citizenship or permanent residence, and in a way that is absolutely unacceptable both for our country and, of course, for Europe. I won't dwell on the mechanism. He's known to everyone. An investment of a million, which is in securities that then disappears and the investment is gone. We have therefore endeavoured to see first what the European Commission draws attention to in its reports and in its remarks to the member states on this topic. Six countries have been targeted to which there are critical remarks. These are Bulgaria, Cyprus, Malta, Greece, Portugal, Ireland. Once it was six, I didn't count it, it doesn't matter. All countries without Bulgaria so far have responded, and some twice, to the European Commission's remarks. How did they respond? They have not banned investment citizenship.. none, but have changed the order in which it is obtained and control of investment. We in the Commission have taken the same approach. In this competitive environment, especially the regional one here, the battle for investment is a battle for the economy. And it is unnecessary to tell you that in the economic crisis that follows after the pandemic, this battle becomes even more important. My fellow Members, who participated in the Commission, have united around setting out as much as possible conditions for obtaining investment citizenship, to maximise the control of this investment citizenship, but not to remove it. So I suggest you accept the bill, because that is exactly what all the other countries have done. This instrument is important for every country, and we cannot abandon it, it is not right, it is not right for our economy. But we can and are obliged to fine-tune all investments through the relevant control, and for the entire period of five years to be available, to be controlled by the Bulgarian Investment Agency in the appropriate order. All of this is written in the Law, and it can also be refined between first and second readings. I do not dwell on the rest of the government's bills and the bill that we have tabled, which concerns the settlement of other types of citizenship, which is naturalisation and so on, because I think they are well developed and in the course of the work between first and second reading this issue will also be corrected. Perhaps in the working group, I will also try to give reports on all countries about what has been done on this subject in order to refine both investment and control. I therefore appeal once again: please support this bill to prepare a common one and to go about not giving up an internationally established mechanism, but to do so so so that there is no criticism of Bulgaria on this topic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u75	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Are there lines? I can't see. Any other statements on the bills? I beg the MPs to put on their masks! Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u76	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to draw attention to the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 March 2020, supported by the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs. The bill was developed in the implementation of Section I.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Agreement withdrawing the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union and from the European Atomic Energy Community was published in the Official Journal of the European Union of 31 January 2020. The Withdrawal Agreement entered into force on 1 February 2020 in accordance with the procedure laid down in art. 50 of the Treaty on European Union. With the entry into force of the Agreement, the United Kingdom shall become a third country bound by European Union law until the end of the transitional period provided for in art. 126 of the Agreement. It shall start on 1 February 2020 and shall end on 31 December 2020, but may be extended by agreement of the Parties. The main objective of the Bill is to provide legal clarity on the application of the provisions of the Bulgarian Citizenship Act, which refer to the United Kingdom as a Member State of the European Union, both during the transitional period and after the expiry of this transitional period. This Draft Law establishes a rule for the benefit of British citizens who applied for the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship under the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship before the end of the transitional period. According to him, they will enjoy the rights of citizens of a Member State of the European Union until the proceedings started with the application lodged before the expiry of the transitional period. Until the date of leaving the European Union by the United Kingdom for its citizens who applied for the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship, the requirement for exemption from their previous citizenship did not apply. After the withdrawal, however, they will have to be released from their previous citizenship in order to acquire Bulgarian citizenship, as they will be treated as citizens of a country which is not a member of the Union. This bill establishes a rule for the benefit of the British citizens who applied for the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship under the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship before the end of the transitional period. According to him, they will also enjoy the rights of citizens of a Member State of the European Union until the proceedings started with this application have been concluded. British citizens who apply for the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship after this period has expired will have to give up their British citizenship. I believe that the proposed bill regulates important public relations in a proper manner and should be adopted at the first vote at today's meeting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Sabeva. Mr. Bogdanov, come in. Excuse me, didn't I ask if there were any lines? I can't see. Here you are, Mr. Bogdanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chairman! I will take account of the four drafts, and will focus mainly on the part of the "Acquiring Bulgarian citizenship on the grounds of Bulgarian origin." I see that debate is going through a lot, and in fact this is a very important topic that is not from the ordinary, bad day, weekly issues that we are discussing in this House. It is important, it is a cause, it is a constitutional right of people who are of Bulgarian origin and wish to acquire Bulgarian citizenship. That is why I say it is important, so we have to defend this right, we have to be very politically and nationally responsible in this direction, because over the years, all sorts of people have tried to exercise on this subject, to throw accusations at this one, to that one, to compromise at all the idea that Bulgarian citizenship should be given. I would say, not to give, to restore the Bulgarian citizenship of these people, because in their vast part these are descendants of people who have been married or have baptismal certificates from the Bulgarian Exarchy, who have served in the Bulgarian Army, or people who have kept their traditions and their proud Bulgarian spirit, regardless of living decades and centuries in foreign conditions, in some countries in hostile regimes, who are trying to suppress the national feeling and remove the Bulgarian character of these people. Therefore, the four bills proposed in one of them, which belongs to the Temporary Commission, with the direct participation of the "United patriots" we believe that the procedure for issuing Bulgarian documents for identity and acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship should be eased. Why am I saying this? Because there is still one opinion that almost by a purely clerical approach we must follow everything that comes as directives from the European Union, the inviolability of borders and so on. Yes, it is true this thing, no one is questioning it, only that the European Union and other countries have their own objectives and aspirations in this organisation, and each of them pursues their national positions of responsibility. We know that Romania is also accused of issuing such documents to people who live outside Romania's borders, Hungary, too, Poland, but this does not mean that these countries have given up these procedures on the contrary, they have made them much easier and much easier. What's the situation so far? We see that there are difficulties, and I regret to say it to you, as we are also receiving such information. Many people who have proved by their actions and efforts that they are Bulgarians and are far more worthy than many of our compatriots who live in today's borders of Bulgaria. People who have provided their private homes for organizing Saturday-Sunday schools, people who organize events related to national holidays such as March 3rd, May 24th, as important dates from Bulgarian history, I say, in other countries where they are still not tolerated for what they do. And all of a sudden, for purely clerical reasons and approach, our administration refuses these people to acquire Bulgarian citizenship. This is really insulting and these prominent Bulgarians imagine what situation they are in when the local community or the country in which they live almost ridiculously treat them by saying: "Behold, you say that you are Bulgarian, but the state or ethnicity you want to join does not issue you documents and you cannot be a Bulgarian citizen. That is why we offer a few specific things. First of all, the relief of procedures and the reduction of time limits. You can see that this is in the proposal of the Council of Ministers. Currently, two levels of documents are being submitted at the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad, and a second time at the Ministry of Justice, something which extremely burdened the procedure. And for a reason, in the Temporary Committee, in which we were sitting, we united around the idea that this is a nonsense and the best solution would be only one institution to deal with this, and in this case it is the Ministry of Justice, which is the authorized state authority. Therefore, we propose that the documents which prove the Bulgarian origins of the respective citizens of other countries to be submitted to the Ministry of Justice and, when they meet the conditions laid down, directly from there without interference by other institutions, they may receive the relevant certificates. But, ladies and gentlemen, this is not enough as a procedure, because in some countries such as Albania, such as Kosovo, for which in every Bulgarian history textbook there have been Bulgarian communities since the Middle Ages, and in Albania the Bulgarians are recognized as a national minority three years ago, the majority of people have no way to prove their Bulgarian origins, because they were not part of the Bulgarian Exarchy, they did not serve in the Bulgarian Army, but that does not mean that they are not Bulgarians. Therefore, we propose the following thing: for those people who do not meet the relevant conditions before the Ministry of Justice, to pronounce an Advisory Council to the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad. Since there have been many accusations in recent years that sole decisions have been made in this agency, that this barely gives rise to opportunities and conditions for corruption, we believe that the best option is to be created by a corresponding decision of the Council of Ministers in the respective regulations of such advisory council, to rule as a collective body and to give an opinion as to whether the person concerned, naturally, on certain criteria, is to count the population, research by Bulgarian and foreign scientists from decades ago, respectively a Bulgarian organisation that represents the minority in the given country, to be evidence which this advisory body, after examining them, may issue an opinion, a recommendation to the Ministry of Justice on the fact that the person is respectively of Bulgarian origin. We believe that, in this way, also through proposals to reduce the time limits for issuing the relevant documents, we will greatly ease the procedure. I will give an example of one of the countries that best deals with this issue. Last year, if I am not mistaken, it was celebrated and marked by the one million Hungarian from the external territories, that is, Hungary and Viktor Orban's policy, where for no more than three months any Hungarian citizen can obtain Hungarian citizenship. I think that we should aim for this direction of action, we should guide our administration to the direction to ease the procedures. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a fact that Bulgaria is in a deep demographic crisis, and I believe that these people, our compatriots, who live in other countries, can be a serious reserve [[noise]] Who can help...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u79	May I have your attention to the speaker, please? We are talking about an extremely valuable and important proposal that will be made by the United Patriarchs. I am surprised that you have no interest in the House, rather loud noise and disorder!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u80	It is extremely important that this is in the direction of tackling the demographic catastrophe and providing labour for the increasingly sinking business because of the lack of sufficient and qualified labour. I believe that the Bulgarian communities in other countries can be an extremely important factor for the prosperity of the Republic of Bulgaria, for its economic development and for it to take its place of dignity, ultimately not to become like other Member States of the European Union, and not only to the European Union, in multiethnic territories, but to give priority to our compatriots. This can be done precisely through this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. Bogdanov. [[Applause from OP.]] Are there any lines to Mr. Bogdanov's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! I will take account of the bill submitted by Mr. Tsonev and a group of MPs, and I can say, as well as the importer mentioned, it is a result of the work and efforts of a temporary committee, which has focused on the attention of the Bulgarian Parliament and the Bulgarian society for almost a whole year. Let's mark the main accents in it. They are in agreement with the policies set out in the Management Programme on Investment, increasing growth and raising capital in Bulgaria. While the attitude and the notes we have received, Mr. Tsonev mentioned in his speech on investment passports and an opportunity to stay in the European Union are of interest to Europe. I think this bill has precisely refined and responded to a large part of the criticisms set out to all sides. Bulgaria has so far not taken a legislative initiative in this direction and I think that this bill deserves the attention of the MPs and the institutions in Bulgaria to be examined, respectively, united with the other bills, which will be adopted at first reading today. I will not go into details, I am familiar with investment citizenship in countries of the European Union, which I can only say that in Bulgaria until now and with the current proposed to your attention bill by Mr. Tsonev and a group of MPs raises, precises and increases the criteria for such citizenship and residence of foreign citizens in the territory of Bulgaria, and at times, colleagues. Notice that in other European countries that offer and have not yet ceased such an opportunity for citizenship through investment, this possibility is even available in real estate investments. The bill, which has been introduced, except that it increases the criteria, which in Bulgaria are for a million, will not go into details, increase many times, control is increased by unlocking this possibility for subsequent control, which is very important for me to implement the real investments and preserve the real jobs for which this investor has committed to the Bulgarian state and Bulgarian society. That's why I think this bill deserves our attention. I personally supported it in the Legal Committee and I hope it will be supported by the Bulgarian Parliament. I think that the notes and any other communication with the European Commission, if possible and subsequent ones, should be taken into account, but should not completely ignore this possibility, because, as they pointed out and preceding, the possibility of obtaining such citizenship for me, especially now in the coronacrisis and pandemic, and also for the recovery of Europe's economy, should not be crossed out. Europe's economy is a very interesting phenomenon. Most of the services are produced in Europe with great added value. Don't forget a few months ago how all EU countries have exported productions or relying on supplies from countries from Asia or third countries, on supplies of basic materials for our security and health preservation, namely all masks we are wearing today. It is for this purpose that such investments are. In my opinion, it is overwhelming that there will come a time when Asian investors will start moving their industries to countries from Europe and this will be desirable by the countries of Europe. Debates have begun in the European Parliament to return such proceedings and opportunities to Europe. I think rejecting this bill proposed by the Temporary Commission to your attention would be the least neglecting of such an important contribution to Bulgaria's economy and the creation of new jobs and investments. That's why I'm going to support him, like I did on the Legal Committee. I stress that I count on your support in this House as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u83	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Are there any lines to Mr. Ivanov's statement? I won't. Next statement Mr. Baychev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u84	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! We will support two of the bills and the other two will not support them. I start with the bills we will support, namely the two of the Council of Ministers. We will support the draft Council of Ministers with regard to these citizens, namely those subjects of the Kingdom of Great Britain, who have started a procedure for obtaining Bulgarian citizenship, but as a result of the fact that Britain left the European Union, problems are being created. We will also support the Council of Ministers' Bill on Investment Citizenship because of the uncertainties surrounding these investments. Investment citizenship creates problems and should not be encouraged. I'd say this is where corruption schemes and corruption are created. It is also difficult to verify the investments made, even at times, that they have already disappeared. We support the Council of Ministers' project precisely because of the withdrawal of the opportunity to obtain citizenship through an investment that does not create investment, jobs or sustainable growth in the economy. However, we will support those individuals who want and define themselves as Bulgarians. We will not support the bill of colleague Andon Donchev, as we think that the origin of Bulgarian citizens is another way. It is not right and there is no way to establish origin through organisations that are essentially non-governmental organisations. After all, who are they controlled by and how? Our concern is that these organizations can be created intentionally by a foreign country or by foreign services, which can practically start producing documents for Bulgarian citizens. We will also not support the draft of my colleague Tsonev and a group of MPs from all political parties without the Bulgarian Socialist Party. Commissioner Tsonev quite rightly explained that we have participated in the debates on the drafting of this bill, but I would like to stress that the European Union has explicitly given us a signal that it does not want the kind of legislation that we are proposing again. I think the investment philosophy they offer is contrary to my understanding of how to acquire Bulgarian citizenship. I believe that Bulgarian citizenship is rather a complex of rights, obligations and feelings of belonging to the Bulgarian nation and cannot be the subject of a trade deal between the state and a natural person. In this regard, we will not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u85	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. The line, Mr. Angelov. Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u86	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Baychev, with all due respect to you about your activities in the Legal Commission, when you comment on bills, read the Bulgarian legislation and then comment on specific proposals that have been made by one or another People's Representative or importers, because you are merely publishing truths and lies. You said about Bulgarian organizations abroad the bill that the colleagues from Volya have proposed. They're in the law right now. It's written! It says that you should register with the competent authority in Bulgaria, as is the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad. All these companies and organizations of Bulgarians abroad, which are registered in the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad, have passed a check through our offices. They were then registered precisely in order not to be a foreign country or with other interests to make such organisations to benefit from this right. Of the hundreds of Bulgarian organizations abroad there are several that are registered. They have the right to propose to the State Agency, another body to say that the person has Bulgarian origin, and it is motivated on the basis of historical references, ethnographic references of Bulgarian scientists and so on. Why are you fooling people again? [[Heckling]] You want to make it clear that someone is yet to predict that these organizations should do something illegal in Bulgaria. That's not true! Two or three have been recognised in Macedonia, two traditional Bulgarian organizations have been in Serbia for many years, one in Besarabia, two in Albania are recognized by the Bulgarian competent authority. I do not understand why you are speaking when you are not aware of a subject at least do not speak it?! The other, for the Joint Draft Law of the Temporary Commission, which we signed the members of different parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u87	Your time is up!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u88	Your representatives in this Temporary Committee agreed with all those things that we wanted to propose together, and we discussed them. The fact that they have not signed and will not support it is also a wonder for me, given that with the colleagues who worked on this committee, we were all of the same opinion, no matter which political party we are from.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u89	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Second line, Mr. Tsonev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Baychev, just to clarify for the sake of the correctness of the European Commission, our European partners have not forbidden us from having investment citizenship. You said: they do not want this type of legislation. No. It has to be precise, it has to be controlled. It is the right of each Member to resolve this matter as she considers best. For this reason, I have given these facts, and I have also given them to the Commission, that the other five countries that have been subject to monitoring and critical remarks have decided it exactly so. Even in the Commission, then I read you some of the answers from these countries to the European Commission: that it is the right of the country concerned and that no one can make a country deprive itself of this instrument, and the European Commission does not do so against Bulgaria. The revision is one thing, the ban is another.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u91	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Is there a third line? I won't. Mr. Baichev, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u92	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I'll turn the lines around. I'll address Mr. Tsonev first. Mr. Tsonev, in my opinion, we both interpret the same opinion, I would say, to the European Commission. I will allow myself to further develop what you say that in relation to the other five countries of the European Union, the European Parliament did not come up with such a resolution as with regard to Bulgaria. The other five countries are not under the same monitoring as Bulgaria, so I cannot agree with what you have said. As for colleague Angelov, yes, colleague Angelov, and now there are them and I would say that thanks to the fact that they are there, the scandal with the purchased passports has arisen. I don't know if you attended the hearing of the former Prosecutor General Tsatsarov, the current Ivan Geshev, but it is said that there is a corruption scheme. It is said that there is a trade in passports, and that there is in the State Agency of Bulgarians abroad, which, I would say, is under the care of the United patriots. So you're very well aware of that, and I don't need to explain anything else to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u93	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. A statement? The word is Mr. Julian Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u94	I wasn't going to make a statement today, but apparently, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, incompetence takes a dangerous amount. The suggestions of those who spoke earlier about corruption, for dealing with the Bulgarian organizations abroad, were fascinated. You linked them to corruption schemes. Tell me, where did the chief deputy prosecutor show data about Bulgarian organizations abroad involved in corruption schemes? Where? Why are you lying? The fact that in Bulgaria there are certain private companies or others who have been trading in this thing, including such law firms from former lawmakers or commissioners from certain parties in different institutions in Bulgaria, which govern and assist for citizenship, is a completely different matter. Where was a Bulgarian organization involved in this scandal? Which president of the Bulgarian organization was involved in such a scandal? Why are you lying and running lies?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u95	Mr. Angelov, on the bills, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u96	Well, under the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u97	Ah, not Mr. Baichev's statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u98	Mr. Simeonov, don't interrupt me! [[Laughter and lines from GERB.]] You're taking from mine, from the time of the group, even though you're part of the group, but you're currently chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u99	But I'm gaining from Parliament's time right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u100	I'm talking about bills that have been discussed...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u101	No, you're talking about Baichev's speech. Bills.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u102	I didn't mention anyone's name. If anyone recognizes himself, or you recognize him, his problem. We are talking here about drawing lies about the proposals of various bills. The state agency for Bulgarians abroad has never issued Bulgarian citizenship. Do you remember the Temporary Commission Report? How many violations have been found. 13 or 14 for the issue of Bulgarian citizenship? How many of them were of Bulgarian origin, Mr. Baychev or Mr. Zarkov? Zero. So when you're lying from this tribune, consider it done. They were all investment citizenship or some other naturalization. Zero.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u103	Mr. Angelov, treat me with respect...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u104	Zero! Out of 13, 14 people who presented the prosecution, there was not one person of Bulgarian origin who was given false citizenship. It's a fact. Everyone was on that committee. Stop fooling people. The problems related to Bulgarian citizenship are not from the Agency for Bulgarians abroad, but from the time of the government of Oresharski, of a minister of justice and of a deputy minister by nickname, who had employed Rambo, who introduced this vicious practice, to refuse Bulgarians from Macedonia and Albania Bulgarian citizenship. You remember what the protests were like back then. The problems related to Bulgarian citizenship are exactly from your management "2013," previously there were no problems with Bulgarian citizenship for people of Bulgarian origin and IMRO, nor have the United Patriarchs participated in the government before this to suspect us of anything. The problems created by you, your management of the DPS and the BSP. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u105	Mr. Angelov, on the bills, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u106	Well, it's on the bill. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u107	Is there a line to Mr. Angelov? I won't. Mr. Zarkov, come in for a statement. I hope your statement will be on the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u108	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I assure you, I will speak on the four bills, as the conversation has been dispelled by emotionally aggressive and untrue statements on its substance.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u109	What's not true? Enough lies! You're just lying, hey.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u110	Even if I'm lying, you can't understand because you don't have the necessary competence. [[Noise and lines from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u111	Please order in the court! Get to the point, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u112	In essence, I will try to tell people who hardly understand that this Parliament, our Legislation, the Forty-fourth National Assembly, was referred to the issue of Bulgarian citizenship nearly two years ago due to spectacular scandals that appeared in the European newspapers. Not in the State Gazette of the European Union, but in the large daily newspapers that explained how Bulgarian citizenship was sold. Accordingly, a temporary committee was adopted and put in place, in which the screamer from that room I think was involved. He doesn't talk so much there. This temporary committee has identified several issues, ladies and gentlemen. Problems with Bulgarian citizenship can be grouped into three groups. The first is related to so-called investment citizenship. The second relates to citizenship in origin or, more precisely, to the way it is certified. The third relates to procedures that take a long time, pile up folders in a complex procedure, passing through various institutions and reaching the Presidency. These three major problems we had put on the table and Mr. Tsonev's Commission prepared a report on them. As a result of this report, which was signed by everyone, a bill was prepared, signed by everyone without BSP. Why was it not signed by the representatives of the BSP, although we participated in this commission? Because we have seen that there is a very severe rift in solving one of these problems, namely the one about investment citizenship, between the proposal of the Ministry of Justice and the Council of Ministers, which should lead this policy, and the proposals made by the relevant committee. And today, at the moment, that question will not be resolved. Why? Because, on one side, the Council of Ministers proposes a more radical approach than the Commission, which offers an approach that also requires communication with the European Commission, which follows this process, for the simple reason that they understand From then on, it was chaos that the Council of Ministers suggested that this be limited to a more extreme degree, while GERB MPs and United patriots joined a proposal that has a radically different philosophy. Having seen this and understanding that this government and this majority with the European Commission, Mr Tsonev, have no common language and cannot explain to them the things that you claim, as this same European Commission and European Parliament have evaluated them in recent months. There is no living force to make the European institutions believe that this government and this majority can guarantee anything, let alone compliance with the law. We have therefore decided, as a group, to support the draft Council of Ministers, your Council of Ministers, which gives clearer solutions on this issue. He, by the way, does not fully restrict investment citizenship. It limits those most risky volatility, I'd say, investments. This is BSP's position on this issue. We will support the Council of Ministers to limit the possibility of acquiring Bulgarian citizenship through the realization of a certain type of investment. What happens to the second question, which the honourable Mr. Angelov denies knowing what it is about? It is about the fact that in giving Bulgarian citizenship in naturalization a basic element plays a document that certify this origin. This document is published in vague ways by not very clear organizations, and then confirmed by the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad and it is the main movement forward in this procedure. Two chief prosecutors came to the interim committee headed by Mr. Tsonev and explained that this closure of this whole very important process in one round leads to corruption risk. It's a risk that's been exposed to an indictment. An indictment you probably know about, if you haven't heard of, to remind you. However, this issue remains to hang, as there is not a word in the draft Council of Ministers about citizenship on naturalization. In the draft presented by the Temporary Commission, there are important elements that must continue to be worked. Whether they will be tabled as proposals between first and second readings, whether they should be further discussed, it is a matter of legal technique. These are the same issues that a working group has been working on for months, by the way. A working group whose existence I don't know if you know about, but who, if they listen to you, must be pinching their ears because they can't understand where you're so competent that you can easily erase the expertise of these people from various departments. And so the result of the entire course two years later, you give two equally conflicting solutions to the issue of citizenship. A non-existent solution to the issue of citizenship by origin. You are going into conflict with the European Commission, as today you will vote on these conflicting decisions. You've wasted our time, and you're probably still selling passports. That's the situation. [[non-censorship lines from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u113	Mr. Zarkov, this last one didn't have to bring anything to your speech. [[Noise and lines from OP.]] Please be quiet in the hall. Mr. Bogdanov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u114	Dear Mr. Zarkov! I am delighted to say, honourable, but still to observe the good tone, since we can not only shout, we can express something that you clearly do not possess as knowledge in this matter, in this particular area. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria: "Don't give grades! "]] I'm going to give my grades any way I want, as other assessments have been given here by other people. First, passports do not issue either the Agency or political organizations or organizations of Bulgarians abroad. Passports shall be issued through the act issued by the President of the Republic of Bulgaria. Another is the question based on what competence does the Presidential Administration challenge a decision of the Ministry of Justice and refuse such acts? So I don't think the accusation you're making has any basis whatsoever. This nonsense that you have spewed out of the stands, I think they have outraged not only the Members of the National Assembly, but also the Bulgarian organizations abroad, which you have openly accused of corruption. This, unfortunately, is not the first act and such action of your political formation. You have proven back in time that the national cause and the right of every Bulgarian to be such, regardless of where and in which country he lives, for you is not a priority, on the contrary, for you this is something very dangerous and very scary. And to organizations recognised by the legislation recognised there and by the Bulgarian legislation, you challenge their right and say: they are criminals, they are corrupt or that they are doing some wrong things. As for the Temporary Commission and the reports... [[(Replication from BSP for Bulgaria.........................................................................................................]] I'm done. In the reports we have heard, there is not a single accusation that there is a issued Bulgarian citizenship through false documents, and for those who are criminals abroad, there are only nine cases, there are not hundreds of cases.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u115	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u116	Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u117	You don't have time for a line anymore. Are there any other lines from other parliamentary groups? I won't. Are there any other speeches? Mr. Manev, come in. [[Noise and lines.]] I'm sorry, douche bag?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u118	I don't want the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u119	You're giving up, thank you. Mr. Manev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u120	Mr President, honourable Members, I will be very brief in my speech. I was also a member of the Commission, I am also Vice-President of the Parliamentary Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad and in this regard, and in this capacity I decided that from this platform in the beginning the speeches that were going on the four bills are extremely professional and nationally involved because we are talking here today about laws concerning Bulgarian citizenship. In the end, however, I hope for certain colleagues, not for political forces, not for parties, that Bulgarian citizenship is not a policy for the Bulgarians and policy for the Bulgarian state in perspective, in the future time, at a time when Europe and the world are changing in every second, both in economic and social terms and in political terms, but in a conuncture. How does that sound? Bulgarian citizenship is a conjuncture. That is, translated into Bulgarian, the recognition of one person as a Bulgarian is a konjuncture. Now let's decide to spit on some political opponent, spit on some political power, someone there ruling or someone else, and that's the most important thing. No, actually, the most important thing in these four bills is three things I think. First, that the procedures for Bulgarian citizenship should be such that everyone who has the self-consciousness or the right or the feeling of being a Bulgarian should be included in a procedure to make it such. We don't automatically make them. No! To have a procedure, to be fair, honest, within normal deadlines and to lead to that the one who has the right to receive his Bulgarian citizenship. The second problem is the institutional problem of Bulgarian citizenship procedures. There are some institutions that are either three or four, which in certain stages of the issuance of Bulgarian citizenship interfere with who has the right and who does not. Unfortunately, this institutional problem in the four bills has been developed and I think that in a common text of the four, notice, the bill may finally come up with something good. There are three of the institutions responsible for Bulgarian citizenship, that this person has the right to be a Bulgarian citizen, and the fourth one says to him: now bring all the documents again and let us start again again. That's not normal, is it? That's not good.! And here we are looking for a solution, because this is a problem, a huge problem. Finally, the famous debate about investment citizenship. I support every word of what Mr. Tsonev and Mr. Ivanov said. People, on these two drafts of the Council of Ministers, which you are talking about, the latter I think is from 2019, right, the newest Commission is working almost a year, a year, with absolutely all the possible sources of information and people we invited to this committee to hear and understand what this is about. It's 2020 now. The year of the pandemic and of the huge economic challenges we have never encountered and no one has ever encountered in this form. And we are negotiating, and we are hardly arguing about the fact that there is one committee - not Ivan, not colleague Petkov, not someone else - but one committee in our vast majority - is proposing that we do not deprive ourselves of an instrument which, by the way, at all levels in Europe and in the world was referred to as a defining instrument - to collect proceedings in Europe. That was and will be politics in the future. We saw at the beginning of the crisis that production in Asia is a huge problem. I am not saying that investment citizenship is the only way to make such a decision, but it is an instrument. And since I'm a security specialist, I'll tell you this: if you drop all your weapons and go defend something, believe me, the chance to protect it is zero. The colleague is also a security expert and can support me in this direction. Finally, when we talked about security, because that's what was heard from this tribune, colleagues, we're being ridiculous. We are obliged to protect the interests of the European Union. We are obliged to protect the European Union's interest in who receives European citizenship and who enters the European Union as a citizen. But who in this Chamber or in our society is currently not asking the question: well, here we are talking about citizenship, past procedure, past the entire institution of statehood and given by state act, and on the other side. And on the other side is migration! How many million people entered and received rights in Europe without a state procedure, without citizenship? We in the Bulgarian Parliament are ready to take our eyes out for Bulgarian citizenship. Sorry, guys! Support all four bills and finally come up with something that will solve this problem, because this problem of Bulgarian citizenship is also a problem of our future generations.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u121	Thank you, Mr. Manev. Are there lines? I can't see. Mr. Angelov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u122	Mr. Chairman, my procedure is in the manner of conducting it because of the last lines Mr. Zarkov made from this tribune to our parliamentary group, which was insulting accusations unproven. He acted like a judge from this... If there is any data, let it give them, but in the manner of keeping you should not have allowed it either to make a remark or to be punished under the Rules, because this is really an insult to the MPs of an entire parliamentary group, which is just fiction and forgery. If anyone... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] That was in response to his words. If someone has sold or betrayed the national interest, it is their party, which made the Macedonian Macedonian genocide and the Bulgarians in Macedonia. [[Applause from OP.]] You cominterns have made this problem and have not yet apologized to the Bulgarian people for the genocide on the Macedonian Bulgarians...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u123	Don't repeat his mistake, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u124	You haven't apologized yet and have the nerve to talk about Bulgarians abroad. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You have no shame!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u125	Mr. Angelov, to me. To me. Do not repeat Mr. Zarkov's mistake or violation. In my right to explain, I would explain to you that Mr. Zarkov's insulting line, the slanderous line, was the last sentence of his speech, and then he very skillfully and quickly escaped. [[Laughter]] I haven't had a chance to cut his mic, or physically stop it in any way, I'm sorry. [[Laughter]] But I made a remark to him, even if it was post-factum. Mr. Zarkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u126	I'm going out on the stand, Mr. Chairman, at the very least to see that I didn't escape, but don't try to keep me safe. The line that sparked the United Patriarchs was: you are probably continuing...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u127	The way we're doing it right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u128	Yes, I'm explaining.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u129	What are you accusing me of, because now I'm going to stop you. [[(Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) Awesome.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u130	I don't know who you're talking about.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u131	To me, to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u132	No, you can't beat it, first of all. It's not your job to stall.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u133	Keep up the good work and we'll see if I can't. [[Laughter and excitement. Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u134	Mr. Chairman, you really don't impress me, do you understand?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u135	It's the way it's supposed to be. You have a procedure in the manner of conduct. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u136	Because you said I committed a violation. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u137	Who's yelling over there? [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u138	I want to explain...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u139	Please keep order in the room so I don't remove you from the room. Yesterday you took the liberty of screaming, now you've taken the second time. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u140	The line that you consider a violation was... You, without you. The most likely thing is that you continue to sell passports. - I haven't addressed it to anyone. Why did the United Patriarchs recognize themselves in it?! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u141	Mr. Zarkov, I have made a remark that this line is not by the nature of the laws in question. And I even told you that without that line, your speech would have lost nothing if you hadn't pronounced it, but it was deliberately pronounced. The way you're holding it, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u142	Mr. President, I am quite familiar with the Rules of the National Assembly, in the sense that I was in the Commission, which originally signed it. There, in the duties of the President of the National Assembly, there is no impasse in any form whatsoever. The problem is not in the verb "Staying" which should undoubtedly not belong to the President of the National Assembly in relation to a colleague in the Chamber. The logic of the President of the National Assembly is that you are the first among equals and you are elected... Moreover, you are not also chairman, you are only replacing, and thank God, but you are at the level of the moment, sitting in this place for which the Constitution has not foreseen a mechanism for seeking responsibility. This implies that you have self-control, which must ensure the proper functioning of the dialogue in the Chamber. In my opinion, you have lost it right now, and my personal offer is to give it a rest, or to get out of the chair and put another one on it, because it is unacceptable for the place you are occupying and is a difficult problem for Bulgarian democracy. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u143	Thank you. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Right to explain. [[Relation of lines between MP Anton Kutev and MPs from OP.]] Please keep your attention and respect. [[Loud noise and lines from OP.]] Mr. Kutev, take your place! Please, colleagues, don't shout! That's not polite. Give me a chance to give my explanation, which the Rules give me. I am not obliged to use words and terms that every or specific MP expects. The word "stopping" makes sense of termination of inappropriate or unauthorised action. In this case, I warned Mr. Zarkov that I could turn off his microphone, take away his word, and thus end his violation. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I've already explained what the violation is.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u144	You didn't warn him about anything like that.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u145	The second thing you're accusing me of is that I'm looking for responsibility. I'm not looking for anyone's responsibility. I'm just trying to follow the rules. When there is a diversion from the substance of the subject at issue, I am obliged to warn the Member of the National Assembly concerned and if he continues his infringement, to take his word away from him. Am I in control or not in control? I'm trying to control myself. You can have whatever opinion you want. Are there any other procedures? I won't. Statements? I won't. I'm calling off the debate. I shall put to the vote the bills in the order of their submission. We are voting for a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship, No 754-01-49, submitted by Andon Dimov Donchev and a group of MPs on 27 July 2017. They voted 153 MPs: 20, against 13, abstention 120. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship, No 902-01-51, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 October 2019. Vote 161 MPs: 160, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship, No 054-01-26, submitted by Yordan Kirilov Tsonev and a group of MPs on 20 March 2020. Vote 158 MPs: 118, against 2, abstention 38. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote a bill supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship, No 002-01-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 March 2020. Vote 159 MPs: 158, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. The three bills were passed at first reading. I'm adjourned until 12.37. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u146	Colleagues, we continue with the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE PREVENTATION AND DISPONSITION OF THE ELECTRONIC STAIRS. Mrs. Vasileva, you have the floor to present the report of the Committee on Environment and Water.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u147	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On 11 August 2020, the Council of Ministers submitted a report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Responsibility for the Prevention and Elimination of Environmental Damage, No 002-01-35, adopted by the Council of Ministers on 11 August 2020, adopted at the first vote on 7 October 2020. "Action to amend and supplement the liability law for the prevention and elimination of environmental damage." The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7, para. 1 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In the text before t. 1 shall be added at the end, or an official authorised by him. 2. point 7 is amended as follows: "7." establish and maintain an information system for cases of imminent threat to environmental damage or environmental damage, including information from the European Commission under Regulation (EU) 2019/10 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 June 2019 on the alignment of reporting obligations under environmental legislation and amending Council Regulations (EC) No 166/2006 and (EU) No 995/2010, Directives 2002/49/EC, 2004/35/EC, 2007/2/EC, 2009/147/EC and 2010/63/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council, Council Regulations (EC) No 338/97 and (EC) No 2173/2005 and Council Directive 86/278/EEC, (OJ L 170/115 of 25 June 2019) .?.......................................................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6: ........................................................... § 6. In Chapter 1, Section III is created art. 19a: Art. 19a. (1) In the information system under art. 7, para. 1, t. 7 shall be collected and processed for: 1. type of immediate threat to environmental damage or environmental damage; 2. the date of occurrence of the immediate threat to environmental damage or to the environmental damage caused and/or the date on which it was established; 3. activity in accordance with Annex 1 resulting from which the immediate threat to environmental damage or environmental damage has arisen; 4. a date on which a procedure has been initiated to prevent or eliminate an imminent threat to environmental damage or environmental damage; 5. an applicant for the procedure to prevent or eliminate an immediate threat to environmental damage or environmental damage - responsible operator, competent authority or public representative; 6. classification code for the classification of the economic activities of the National Statistical Institute of Activity as a result of which the environmental damage occurred; 7. pre-trial proceedings or court cases relating to an imminent threat to environmental damage or to environmental damage; 8. the result of pre-trial proceedings or cases under point 8. 7); 9. the result of the procedure to prevent the immediate threat of environmental damage or environmental damage to: (a) protected species and habitats; (b) waters; (c) soil. 10. result of the immediate threat of environmental damage or environmental damage to: (a) protected species and habitats; (b) waters; (c) soil. 11. date of completion of the procedure to prevent or eliminate the immediate threat of environmental damage or environmental damage; 12. costs of the relevant preventive or healing measures: (a) paid directly by the responsible parties; (b) recovered subsequently from the responsible parties; (c) not recovered by the responsible parties, indicating the reasons for the non-refundation. 13. source for payment of costs; 14. Implementation of financial insurance under art. 14. 43,43a and 43b; 15. annual administrative expenses of the competent authorities in implementing the law; 16. other information. (2) The information under para. 1 shall be collected and processed on a case-by-case basis by the relevant competent authority under art. 6 or by an official authorised by him. (3) Access to the information system under art. 7, para. 1, t. 7 is provided via the website of the Ministry of Environment and Water.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u148	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for the name of the Law; the text of the importer for § 1, the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 2; the text of the importer for paragraphs 3, 4 and 5, supported by the Commission; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 6. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u149	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 20 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2, 4 and 5 words. The entry concerning the entry concerning certain persons and entities referred to in Article 1 (1) (b) and (c) of 2. Paragraph 7 is amended as follows: The competent authority referred to in art. 6 or an official authorised by him shall communicate to the operator by the order of the Administrative Code the order under para. 5 and publish it on its website within 3 days of its issue. 3. The creation of para. 10: The competent authority referred to in Article 1 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 shall be the competent authority of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down detailed rules for the implementation of Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council and Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 21, para. 1 and 3 words. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 23 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 3: . (3) The Minister of Environment and Water or an official authorised by him shall send the order under para. 1 of the district governor responsible for implementing the preventive measures. 2. Previously on AMC's... 3 and 4 become respectively. 4 and 5. 3. The creation of para. 6: The competent authority referred to in Article 1 (2) shall be the competent authority of the Member State in which it is established. 6, p. The proposal under art. 2 ". 4" presented the proposal under art. 22, para. 1 or an official authorised by him shall certify by a constant record of verification the complete, qualitative and execution of the order under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24, para. 1 and 2 after the word "stakes', the word "stakes' shall be replaced by "stakes' and the word "stakes' shall be replaced by "stakes'. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 25, in the text before t. 1 words.............................................................................. 6, p. 2 "4" shall be replaced by "c." 6 or authorised by him an official, the words "in 5 days' shall be deleted and the words "indemnities' shall be replaced by "indemnities' under art. 4, para. 1, t. 2 and 3 within 5 days and
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u150	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the version proposed by the Commission for the text in paragraphs 7 and 8; the version proposed by the Commission in paragraphs 9, 10 and 11. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The texts put to the vote have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u151	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 26, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 3 words................................................................................. 2.. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 27, para. 1 and 2 words. 2.. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, and shall delete the words "and the comma' in front of them. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 29 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 words................................................................................. The entry concerning 2. In para. 2 sentences first and third words. In the case of a staff member who is a member of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors 3. In para. 5 words. In the case of a staff member who is a member of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of 4. In para. 6 words. The entry concerning the entry concerning certain persons and entities referred to in Article 1 (1) (b) 5. In para. 8 words. In the case of a staff member who is a member of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of 6. In para. 9 words.................................................................................. The following points are inserted 7. They're creating an al. 10 and 11: . (10) The appeal of the order under para. 6 does not stop its execution. (11) The competent authority under art. 6 or an official authorised by him shall certify by a constant record of verification the complete, qualitative and execution of the order under para. 6................................................ The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16, and shall delete the words "and the comma' in front of them. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 17: Seventeen. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 31 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 words................................................................................. The entry concerning 2. In para. 3 sentence first and third, the words..".............................................................................................. 2 "4" shall be replaced by a person empowered by him or by him or by a person of his or her authority.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u152	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the version proposed by the Commission for the texts of paragraphs 12 and 13; the text of the importer for § 14, with the editorial amendments proposed by the Commission; the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 15; the text of the importer for § 16 with the amendments proposed by the Commission, as well as the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 17. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. The texts put to the vote have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u153	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 18: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 32 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 words................................................................................. The entry concerning 2. They're creating an al. 5 and 6: (5) The appeal of the order under para. 2 does not stop its execution. (6) The competent authority under art. 6 or an official authorised by him shall certify by a constant record of verification the complete, qualitative and execution of the order under para. 2. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 19: "Seriously, I'm In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 33 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 words................................................................................. The entry concerning 2. In para. 4 after the words. 6, p. In the case of a staff member who is a member of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of 3. In para. 7th sentence, first and third, after the words "The Minister of Environment and Waters', is added, or is a person responsible for it. 4. In para. 10 the Minister of Environment and Waters shall be added after the words................................................................................................................... 5. A new para is being created. 12: The Minister of Environment and Water or an official authorised by him shall send the order under para. 11 of the district governor responsible for the implementation of the rescue measures. 6. So far, the Al. 12 becomes para. 13. 7. They're creating an al. 14 and 15: (14) The appeal of the order under para. 11 does not stop its execution. (15) The competent authority referred to in art. 6, p. 2 " 4 " made the proposal under para. 4 or an official authorised by him shall certify by a constant record of verification the complete, qualitative and execution of the order under para. 11. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 20: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 34 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 1 and 5 shall be added after the words the Minister of Environment and Waters. 2. In para. 7 sentence first and third after the words the surrounding environment and the waters. 3. They're creating an al. 12 and 13: The appeal of the order under para. (12) 10 does not stop its execution. (13) The competent authority under art. 6, p. 2 " 4 " made the proposal under art. 33, para. 4 or an official authorised by him shall certify by a constant record of verification the complete, qualitative and execution of the order under para. 10. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 21: .................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 35 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 the Minister of Environment and Waters shall be added after the words................................................................................................................... 2. In para. 2 after the word the cost is a comma and the word is replaced by the word the cost is replaced by the cost is replaced by the word the Minister of Environment and Waters and the words the Minister of Environment and Waters and the word is added, or the person responsible by him is added. 3. In para. 3 words................................................................................. The following points are inserted after point 6a (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 May 2011 concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market, amending Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market, amending Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 and repealing Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 (OJ L 153, 21.5.2012, p. 1). The term "supplied' shall be replaced by the word "supplied' and the word "supplied' shall be replaced by the word
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u154	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the version proposed by the Commission for the texts of paragraphs 18 and 19; the version for § 20; and the version proposed by the Commission for § 21. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. The texts put to the vote have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u155	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 23: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 36, para. 2 and 4 shall be added after the words the Minister of Environment and Waters. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 24: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 41 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the words are collected, the words "National Revenue Agency" shall be replaced by "public Contractor" and, finally, added by the order of the Civil Procedure Code when assigned to a judicial contractor. 2. A new para is being created. 2: . (2) Within 14 days of the issue of the consolidated protocol by the competent authority under art. 6, p. 2 or by an official authorised by him for the execution of an order under art. 20, para. 5 in the cases referred to in art. 23, para. Art. 1, art. 24, para. Art. 2, Art. 29, para. Art. 6, Art. 33, para. Art. 11, art. 34, para. Art. 10 and art. 35, para. 3 The district governor shall submit to the Ministry of Environment and Water documents certifying the execution of the order. 3. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 3 and finally added to it on the basis of the documents under para. 2. The sentence is created and the second sentence is created: The letter also contains a call for voluntary implementation under the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 25. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 26: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 43a and 43b: Art. 43a. (1) In the cases referred to in art. 3, p. 2 the operator or third party shall ensure that the rescue measures are financially implemented by at least one of the following means: 1. bank guarantee; 2. mortgage on real estate and/or property rights on Theirs; 3. Bet on claims, movable goods or securities. (2) The guarantee under para. 1 shall be presented to the Ministry of Environment and Water within 7 days of notification of the orders under art. 29, para. Art. 6 and art. 32, para. 2. (3) The bank guarantee under para. 1, t. 1 shall be established for the period specified in the orders under art. 29, para. Art. 6 and art. 32, para. 2. Art. 43b. (1) In the cases referred to in art. 3, p. 3 The operator shall ensure that preventive and healing measures are financially implemented by at least one of the following means: 1. bank guarantee; 2. mortgage on real estate and/or property rights on Theirs; 3. Bet on claims, movable goods or securities. (2) The guarantee under para. 1 shall be presented to the Ministry of Environment and Water within 7 days of notification of the orders under art. 20, para. Art. 5, art. 29, para. Art. 6 and art. 32, para. 2. (3) The bank guarantee under para. 1, t. 1 shall be established for the period specified in the orders under art. 20, para. Art. 5, art. 29, para. Art. 6 and art. 32, para. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u156	Thank you. Statements? I shall put to the vote the following texts: the text of the importer for § 22; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 23; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 24; and the text of the importer for § 25. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted. I am now voting on the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 26. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. Text accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u157	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 27: "The Bible says: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 47 the following amendments shall be made: "1." In para. 1 words................................................................................. The entry concerning the 2. In para. 4 sentence first the words.. 2 " 4' are replaced by "or' authorised by him an official. 3. In para. 6 words. 2.. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 28: ....... 28........................................... 28 In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 48, para. 4 words....................................................................................... In the case of a staff member who is a member of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that § 29 be rejected, as it is reflected in its systematic place as a new § 32. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 30, which shall become § 29. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 31, which shall become § 30. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 32, which shall become § 31.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u158	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 27 and § 28; the Commission's proposal to reject § 29 by importer; and the text of the importer for § 30, § 31, § 32, which shall become § 29, § 30 and § 31 respectively. They voted 106 MPs: for 105, against none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u159	The Commission proposes to create a new § 32. ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss in Chapter 5, the name of Section II is amended as follows: "Department II " Information to the European Commission ". The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 33: ................................................ Article 55 is amended as follows: Art. 55. (1) The Minister of Environment and Water or an official authorised by him shall provide the European Commission, on a case-by-case basis, with the following information: 1. type of environmental damage within the meaning of art. 4, para. 1 date of occurrence and/or finding of damage; 2. a description of the activity in accordance with Annex No 1; 3. any other information relevant to the experience gained in the application of the law. (2) The information under para. 1 shall be collected and processed in the information system under art. 7, para. 1, t. 7. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 34: ................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 56 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 1 shall finally be placed a comma and added as well as verification of the full, qualitative and within the time-limit of execution of the orders referred to in Chapter Two and/or Four. 2. In para. 2 is created t. 7. "7." verification of the full, qualitative and time-limit of execution of the orders referred to in Chapter Two and/or Four. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 35, and shall delete the words "and the comma' in front of them. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 36. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 37. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 38. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 39: .............................................................................. The additional provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In § 1, t. 9 the word "preparations' is replaced by "supplied'; 2. Paragraph 2a is inserted: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. The Act provides for measures implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/10 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 June 2019 on the alignment of reporting obligations under environmental legislation and amending Regulations (EC) No 166/2006 and (EU) No 995/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council, Council Directives 2002/49/EC, 2004/35/EC, 2007/2/EC, 2009/147/EC and 2010/63/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council, Council Regulations (EC) No 338/97 and (EC) No 2173/2005 and Council Directive 86/278/EEC. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 40: § 40. Paragraph 7 of the Transitional and Final Provisions is amended as follows: .................................................... The information referred to in art. 55, para. 1 shall be made available to the European Commission by 30 April 2022 and every five years from that date. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 41. ............................................................................. In Annex 1 to art. 3, p. 1, ct. 4 words within the meaning of art. 2 of the Law on the Protection against the Harmful Effects of Chemicals and Mixes is replaced by the "Classified by Regulation (EC) No 1272/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2008 on the classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures, amending and repealing Directives 67/548/EEC and 1999/45/EC and amending Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-29.u160	Thank you. Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the Commission proposal to create a new § 32 with content under the Commission Report; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 33; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 34; the text of the importer for § 35 with the proposals for an editorial amendment made by the Commission; and the text of the importer for § 36, § 37, § 38; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 39 and § 40; and the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 41. They voted 101 MPs: for 101, against and abstention there is no. The texts put to the vote have been adopted. I will now introduce you to a parliamentary control message on October 30th. Debates on the inquiry by the MPs Georgi Gokov, Vesela Lecheva, Violeta Jeleva, Milko Nedyalkov, Nadia Klisurska and Polina Shishkova to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva on the policy of improving the adequacy of pensions in Bulgaria in the short and long term. Answer questions. 1. The Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev will answer a question from the National Representative Ivan Chenchev. 2. The Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will answer two questions from the MPs Irena Anastasova and Smilyana Nieva. 3. The Minister of Economy Lachezar Borisov will answer a question from the MP Rumen Gechev. 4. The Minister of Interior Hristo Terziyski will answer three questions from the MPs Ivan Valentinov Ivanov; Mikhail Hristov; and Krasimir Yankov, Valeri Jablyanov, Georgi Andreyev, Dimitar Stoyanov, Lalo Kirilov, Nikolay Ivanov and Chavdar Velinov. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the MNS, delaying responses by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva?? a question from the MPs Valeri Zablyanov, Krasimir Yankov, Nikolay Ivanov, Dimitar Stoyanov, Georgi Andreyev, Lalo Kirilov and Chavdar Velinov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to two questions with written answer from the MPs Tasco Ermenkov, Zhelyo Boychev and Anton Kutev; - the Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov to four questions from the MPs Kolyo Milev; Smilyana Nieva; Evgeni Budinov; and Georgi Mihailov; and 5 questions with a written answer from the MPs Anastas Popdimitrov; Anna Slavova; and Lallo Kirilov; - Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov of a question by the MPs Manoil Manev and Radostin Tanev. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the answers to: - a question from the MP Dzhevdet Chakarov to the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy and Minister of Tourism Mariana Nikolova; - a question from the MPs Kristina Sidorova and Teodora Halacheva to the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev. The parliamentary control meeting will not be attended by ministers, who, in connection with the CIVID-19 epidemic, are in quarantine period. "The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva, the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov, the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova and the Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov. The written answers to the questions and questions to which the period expires in the quarantine period will be provided by the relevant ministers immediately after the expiry of this period. Next regular plenary session from 9.00 p.m. on 30 October, according to the adopted Work Programme. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
