ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u1	Good afternoon, fellow Members. Please take your seats. Good afternoon to the colleagues who will participate in the meeting remotely. I hope they're okay. Colleagues, please register. Boris Kirchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u2	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u3	Vladimir Toshev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u4	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u5	Georgi Dinev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u6	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u7	Georgi Kolev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u8	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u9	Mrs. Kostadinova?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u10	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u11	Konstantin Popov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u12	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u13	Mr. Gurnevsky? This is Mr. Gurnevsky, but something may not be hearing us. His computer's stuck.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u14	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u15	This is Mr. Gurnevsky. Abort registration, announce the result. Registered in Hall 115, plus 7 remotely becomes 122, 122 is the quorum, 62 is the required number of MPs who can make decisions in the Chamber. There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] We continue with the first item of today's agenda: SECOND VOICE OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW ON ADDED LOANS. Importers supplied by the People's Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs on 27 November 2020. Adopted at first vote on 4 December 2020. The first item for Thursday, December 10th. Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u16	The Commission's Report on Budget and Finance on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act No 054-01-106, submitted by Menda Kirilova Stoyanova and a group of MPs on 27 November 2020, adopted in the first vote on 4 December 2020. The Act for amendment and supplement of the Value Added Tax Act. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u17	Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u18	Madam President, I ask that, before you vote, the title which the Commission supports, as is the name of the importer, you do a roll call check to see if we have a quorum in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u19	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Adlen Shukri Shevked is absent. Albena Vladimirova Naydenova- here Alexander Dimitrov Pawnov- absent Alexander Ivanov Matsurev- here Alexander Koychev Ivanov- here Aleksandar Mairov Siddi-here Alexander Nikolaev Sabanov- here Alexander Petrov Alexandrov- here Alexander Rumenov Nenkov- here Alexander Tihomirov Simov- absent Altimir Emilov Adamov- here Anastas Marinov Popdimitrov- absent Angel Iliev Isaev- here Andrian Ivanov Raykov-- here. Anna Vasileva Alexandrova- here Anna Nikolaeva Slavova- absent Anton Konstantinov Kutev- absent Asya Atanasova Peeva- here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov- here Atanas Petrov Kostadinov- absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov is absent. Bogdan Emilov Botsev- absent Boris Vangelov Borisov- here Boris Petkov Kirchev (through the Internet) video conference platform)- here Boris Yankov Yachev- here Borislav Ivanov Borisov- here Boryana Lyubenova Georgieva- here Bürhan Ilyazov Abase - absent Valentin Alexiev Nikolov- here Valentin Georgiev Lambev- absent Valentin Ivanov Radev- here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov- absent Valentin Mirchov Milushev- here Valentina Alexandrova Naydenova- absent Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov- absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov- here Vasil Milanov Antonov- absent Vasil Tsvetkov- here Eyebrows Letif Rashidov here Velislava Ivanova Krasteva- absent Venka Kostadinova Stoyanova- here Vesela Nikolaeva Lecheva- absent Veselin Naydenov Mareshki - absent Veska Marinova Nencheva- absent Violeta Ruseva Jeleva - absent Vladimir Slavchev Valev- here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev (through the Internet) video conference platform)- here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov- here Galya Eneva Zaharieva- here Galya Stoyanova Zhelyazkova - here Georgi Georgiev Mihailov- absent Georgi Georgiev Stoilov- absent Georgi Dimitrov Andreev- absent Georgi Evdokiev Markov- absent Georgi Zaprev Dinev (through the Internet) video conference platform)- here Georgi Yordanov Yordanov- absent Georgi Kolev Kolev (through the Internet) video conference platform)- here Georgi Nikolov Vergiev- absent Georgi Stratilov Svilenski- absent Georgi Tenev Stankov- here Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski- absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov- absent Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova- absent Daniel Petkov Yordanov- absent Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova- here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva- here Daniela Dimitrova Maleshkova- here Daniela Dobreva Dimitrova- here Danka Evstatieva Zidarova-Lurtova- here Dean Stoyanov Stanchev- here Delyan Slavchev Peevski- absent Desislaw Petrov Taskov- absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov- absent Desislava Angelova Todorova- here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva (through an internet platform) video conference connection)- here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov is absent. Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov is absent Dilyan Stanimirov Dimitrov- here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov- here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev- here Dimitar Velichkov Georgiev - absent Dimitar Ivanov Avramov- absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev- here Dimitar Ivanov Danchev- absent Dimitar Krumov Alexandrov- here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov- here Dimitar Stoyanov Stoyanov- here Dobrin Nenov Danev- absent Donka Dimova Simeonova- absent Dora Ilieva Yankova- absent Dora Stoyanova Hristova- absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev- absent Evgeni Genchev Budinov- here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva- here Evgenia Danielova Angelova- here Evdokia Slavchova Asenova- absent Elena Vladimirova Angelina - absent Elena Stefanova Pesheva - absent Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov- absent Emil Marinov Hristov- here Emil Seraphimov Tonchev- here Emilia Veselinova Staneva-Milkova- here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin is absent. Errol Osman Mehmet-- absent. Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev- absent Brought to you by Vassilev Iankov- here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov- absent Ivan Dimov Ivanov- absent Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev- absent Ivan Nikolov Mihovski- here Ivan Stefanov Valkov- here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov- absent Ivelina Veselinova Vasileva- here Ivo Angelov Hristov- absent Iglika Ivanova-Subeva- here Ilian Angelov Timchev- absent Imren Ismetova Mehmedova- absent Irena Metodieva Dimova- here Irena Todorova Anastasova- absent Honest Vasilev Veselinov- here Ihsan Halil Hakke is absent Yordan Apostolov - here Yordan Iliev Yordanov- here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev- absent Kalin Dimitrov Vassilev- here Kalin Lubenov Velev- here Kalin Nikolov Popovski- here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva- here Kolyo Yordanov Milev - absent Konstantin Veselinov Popov (through the Internet) video conference platform)- here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev- here Krasimir Georgiev Tzipov- here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov- here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev- here Krasimir Mitkov Subev- here Krasimir Hristov Jankov- here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Cristina Maximova Sidorova- absent Krum Kostadinov Zarkov- absent Krastina Nikolova Taskova- here Lalo Georgiev Kirilov- here Lilyana Drumeva Radeva- here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov- here Lyubomir Boykov Bonev- absent Manoil Minchev Manev- here Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Margarita Nikolaeva Nikolova- here Maria Yordanova Ilieva- here Maria Yordanova Tsvetkova- here Maria Shtereva Belova- here Martin Stefanov Obreshkov- absent Menda Kirilova Stoyanova- here Milen Vassilev Mihov- here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova- here Milko Nedyalkov Nedyalkov- absent Mitko Kostadinov Polychronov- here Mikhail Ivaylov Hristov- absent Mladen Nikolov Shishkov- here Mustafa Sally Karadaye- absent Nadia Spasova Klisurska-Zekova - absent Nelly Ruskova Petrova- here Nigyar Sahlim Jaffer is absent Nikola Iliev Dinkov- absent Nikolay Asenov Tishev- absent Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov- here Nikolay Georgiev Ivanov- here Nikolay Dimitrov Penev- absent Nikolay Ivanov Tsonkov- absent Nikolay Krastev Boshkov- absent Nikolay Tsvetanov Sirakov- here Nikolina Panayotova Angelkova- here Nona Krasteva Yotova- missing Pavel Alexeyev Hristov- here Pavel Dimitrov Shopov- absent Petar Georgiev Kanev- absent Peter Hristov Petrov- here Plamen Dulchev Nunev- here Plamen Ivanov Manushev- here Plamen Tachev Petrov- here Plamen Trifonov Hristov- here Polina Alexandrova Shishkova- absent Polina Tsvetoslavova Tsankova-Hristova- here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev- absent Radoslava Plamen Chekanska- here Radostin Radoslavov Tanev- here Ralitsa Trilkova Dobreva- here Ramadan Bajram Atali is absent Rosen Zhivkov Ivanov- here Rosen Malinov Malinov - absent Rumen Vassilev Gechev- absent Rumen Nikolov Georgiev- absent Rumen Petrov Genov- here Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev- here Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova- missing Svetlana Angelova Naydenova- here Sevim Ismail Ali is absent Sergey Manushov Kichikov- absent Simeon Georgiev Naydenov- here Simeon Hristov Simeonov- absent Slavi Dichev Netzov- here Slavcho Stoev Atanasov- absent Smilyana Nikolova Niva-Krsteva- missing Spas Georgiev Gurnevski (through the Internet) video conference platform)- here Save Yanev Panchev- here Stanislav Ivanov Popov- here Stanislav Ivanov Stoyanov- here Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov- here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov- here Stanislava Krasimirova Stoyanova- here Stefan Apostolov - here Stefan Ivanov Burgeev - absent Stay Mitev Stoynov- here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev- absent Stoyan Radkov Bojinov- here Tanner Mehmed Ali is missing. Tanya Todorova Petrova- here Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov- absent Teodora Atanasova Halacheva- absent Teodora Radkova Georgieva- here Todor Baychev - absent Toma Lubomirov Bikov- here Thomas Nikolov Tomov- absent Filip Stefanov Popov - absent Hayri Recepov Sadakov- absent Halil Rexepov Letifov is absent Hamid Barry Hamid-- absent. Hassan Ahmed Ademov - absent Hristian Radev Mitev- here Hristo Georgiev Gajev-here Hristo Tanchev Prodanov- absent Flower Valcheva Karayancheva- here Tsvetan Borisov Topchiev- absent Chavdar Yordanov Velinov- here Julian Krastev Angelov- here Yulian Mihailov Papasimov- here Yavor Bozhilov Notev- here Yavor Rumenov Bojankov- absent We shall proceed with the meeting. Now we will vote on the title and statement on behalf of a group has given me a sign Mr. Velchev, so Mrs. Stoyanova, we only vote on the title of the Law. Mr. Kirchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u20	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u21	Mr. Toshev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u22	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u23	Mr. Dinev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u24	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u25	Mr. Kolev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u26	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u27	Mrs. Kostadinova?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u28	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u29	Mr. Popov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u30	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u31	Mr. Gurnevsky?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u32	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u33	Thank you. Abort the vote, announce the result. They voted 102 MPs in the House plus 7 remote.. become 109: for 97 MPs in the House plus 7 remotely stands for 104, not against, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Mr. Velchev, come in for a statement on behalf of a group.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u34	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today is 72 years since the adoption of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights. This happened in 1948. The importance of this first document still increases its importance, with each passing year, because human rights in their universality, indivisibility and mutuality are at the heart of everything that the democratic part of humanity continues to strive for today. Our world is colorful.. woven of different races, religions and nationalities, which in their roots, cultures and traditions are the true bearers of world cultural, ethnic diversity and color. What could be better than having a life of peace, understanding, and cooperation?! 2020 is and continues to be complex, unpredictable, controversial and very difficult. The world was on fire and the CIVID-19 pandemic put on the agenda questions that we had never asked ourselves before. Problems arose, no one had an answer for their decisions. This pandemic has affected absolutely all spheres of public policy, economic, economic, cultural life, including the sphere of human rights. And if, on the one hand, the manifestations of aggression, fear, panic, hatred, incoherence, at the same time, at times increased unity and empathy between people, volunteering, campaigning for donation. Man's faith was strengthened, and in the good, that there is hope for mankind. This is one of the many difficult lessons recently learned in a way that is really awkward, but it gives us knowledge and perspective and, above all, hope of how we could cope with such threats in the future. Let me remind you of the key priorities of the country as a member of the Council of Europe and a member of the United Nations on Human Rights, our policy in the field that is aimed at ensuring equality for all Bulgarian citizens regardless of their ethnicity, religion or sexual orientation: equal rights and opportunities for women and men; protection of the rights of the child and vulnerable groups in the Bulgarian society; active involvement in the public life of the Roma population and many, many more. Our country is making serious and continuous efforts as part of the European Union, respecting the principles of democracy, human rights and the rule of law to adapt, update and increase the utility of its own legislation in this extremely important area, such as human rights. At this moment, today, when the world is faced with an invisible and treacherous enemy, more than ever here in our homeland, regardless of ethnicity and religion, we manage to live by following the principles enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, namely human dignity, freedom, equality and brotherhood, principles that are an expression of the highest level of humanism, dreams, aspirations, ideas of all humanity. Because the way to overcome the challenges of the 21st century is if we are united in our diversity and tolerant in our differences; if we declare our will and conviction that all people are born free and equal in dignity and rights, as Article 1 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights proclaims, if we continue to fight continuously for agreement, security and peace between people. Let us not forget that after the most severe and crushing defeat always comes victory. It's just a matter of time before we all stand together in understanding, not losing faith and not giving up. May God protect Bulgaria! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u35	Yeah, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u36	Under § 1, there is a proposal from the MP Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 36b: ? Delivery of vaccines against COVID-19 and in vitro diagnostic medical devices intended for diagnosis of COVID-19 Art. 36b. (1) Casual delivery at zero rate with a place of execution on the territory of the country shall be: 1. the delivery of vaccines against COVTD-19 and services directly related to these vaccines; 2. delivery of in vitro diagnostic medical devices intended for diagnosis of COVID-19 and services directly related to these devices. (2) Alinea 1 shall apply when vaccines against COVID-19 and in vitro diagnostic medical devices intended for diagnosis of COVID-19 meet the requirements of the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine and the Law on Medical Devices. According to § 2 there is a proposal of the MP Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2, in which the words "art." The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 to amend this Regulation by means of implementing acts in accordance with the The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. Under § 4 there is a proposal of the MP Daniela Daritkova: In § 4 t. 2 to be amended as follows: "2." They're creating a t. 53a and 53b: It's 53a. In vitro diagnostic medical device under art. 366, p. 1 is a medical device within the meaning of § 1, item 1. 12 of the additional provisions of the Medical Devices Act. 53b. "Vaccinator" under art. 36b, t. The medicinal product is a medicinal product within the meaning of § 1. 17 of the additional provisions of the Act on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, which received a marketing authorisation under Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 31 March 2004 laying down Community procedures for the authorisation and control of medicinal products for human and veterinary use and establishing a European Medicines Agency (OJ L 136/1 of 30 April 2004) or under the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ The additional provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In § 1, c. 2 in the 2. In § 1a is created t. 19: "19." Council Directive (EU) 2020/1756 of 20 November 2020 amending Directive 2006/112/EC on the common system of value added tax as regards the identification of taxable persons in Northern Ireland (OB, L 396/1 of 25 November 2020) .?.......................................................................................................... The Commission supports the text of the importer, but proposes that § 5 be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic position in § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. I shall open the deliberations referred to in paragraphs 1 to 5 by importer. Is there anyone who would like to speak? I don't see anyone who wants to. I shall close the deliberations and put to the vote paragraphs 1 and 2 in the version proposed by the Commission; § 3 by importer. They voted 130 MPs: 123 against 1, abstention 6. Paragraphs 1 to 3 have been adopted. I put to the vote the unaccepted proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Daniela Daritkova for the text of § 4 "is not adopted by the Commission." They voted 124 MPs: 33, against 2, abstention 89. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of § 4 in the version of the Commission and the rejection of § 5. They voted 126 MPs: 120, none, abstention 6. Paragraph 4 has been adopted in the version of the Commission and § 5 has been rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u38	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 5: .................................................................................. (1) Taxable person registered under art. 97b, established by headquarters and address of management in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, shall be deemed to be registered under art. 96, para. 9, if he designates an accredited representative under art. 133 to 15 January 2021 including, except where it is registered under art. 154 or in another Member State for the implementation of a regime outside the Union and notified it by 15 January 2021, including the territorial directorate of the National Revenue Agency. (2) The registration under para. 1 shall be carried out in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 1. 101 in the territorial directorate of the National Revenue Agency. (3) If a taxable person registered under art. 97b, established by headquarters and address of management in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, did not designate an accredited representative under art. 133 or not registered under art. 154 for a non-Union regime within the term of para. 1, its registration shall be terminated at the initiative of the Revenue Authority by issuing a de-registered act. (4) In the cases under para. 3 the order for the registration shall not be served on the person, but the date of the registration shall be the date on which the period under para expires. 1. (5) In the case of the deregistered under para. 3 is assumed that the person makes a delivery under art. 111. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7, which shall become § 6: ........................................................... (1) Refund of tax to taxable persons established in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland not established on the territory of the country for received goods and/or services in the territory of the country until 31 December 2020, including, shall be carried out in accordance with art. 81, para. 2 intended for persons not established in the Member State of refund but established in the territory of the European Union. Tax refund applications for tax periods until 31 December 2020 shall be submitted by 31 March 2021 inclusive. (2) Goods dispatched or transported from the territory of the country to the territory of the United Kingdom of Great Britain by 31 December 2020 including those arriving or transporting them shall be deemed to be goods dispatched or transported to the territory of a Member State on or after 1 January 2021. The documents certifying the existence of the circumstances referred to in the first sentence shall be the documents referred to in art. 45 of the Rules implementing the Law on Value Added Tax (prom., SG No. .). (3) Goods dispatched or transported from the territory of the United Kingdom of Great Britain to the territory of the country or to the territory of another Member State by 31 December 2020 including those arriving or transporting them shall be deemed to be goods dispatched or transported from the territory of a Member State on or after 1 January 2021. For the verification of the circumstances referred to in the first sentence, the person must have a document of delivery and documents proving the dispatch or transport of the goods. (4) Corrections of references submitted - statements under art. 159b for persons registered for the implementation of a non-Union regime and a Union regime, or submitted to the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland under a non-Union regime and a Union regime in respect of services provided in the Republic of Bulgaria as a Member State of consumption until 31 December 2020 including, shall be carried out by 31 December 2021 at the latest, including under art. 159d. (5) Goods sent or transported until 31 December 2020, including to the territory of the United Kingdom of Great Britain, which shall be returned to the territory of the country after 1 January 2021 by the person who has dispatched or transported the goods, upon their importation into the territory of the country shall be exempt from tax under the conditions and under the procedure of art. 58, para. 1, t. 17................................................ Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 7: .................................................... For the period from 1 October 2020 to 31 December 2020, including art. 245, para. 4 of the Law on Corporate Income Tax does not apply in the event of suspension of the activity in the execution of an administrative act issued in accordance with Section V of Chapter 2 of the Health Act. In these cases, the tax under art. 245, para. 1, t. 1 s 3 of the Corporate Income Tax Act is due in proportion to the days of the quarter during which the activity was not stopped. Proposal of the MP Alexander Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 8: ................................................................................... In the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, and for overcoming the consequences (promise, SG No. (c) Paragraph 21a shall be inserted in the transitional and final provisions: ............................................................................... (1) In 2020, the Ministry of Health may subsidise hospital care facilities within the meaning of the Law on Medical Institutions for maintaining their readiness to provide medical care in the event of an emergency epidemic situation due to the epidemic spread of contagious disease under art. 61, para. 1 of the Health Act. (2) Subsidisation under para. 1 shall be carried out for the months of November and December 2020 on the basis of contracts concluded for the period of the exceptional epidemic situation, subject to the requirements of the State Aid Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u39	I am opening the debates on the name of the section "Transitional and final provisions" under § 6 and § 7 by importer, as well as on the proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova for a new § 7, and on the proposal of the National Representative Alexander Ivanov for a new § 8. I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote § 6 by importer which shall become § 5 by text, as edited by the Commission; § 7, which shall become § 6 by version of the Commission; § 7 by version of the Commission proposed by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova; and § 8 by version of the Commission, by proposal of the National Representative Alexander Ivanov. They voted 129 MPs: 121, none, abstention 8. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u40	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the establishment of a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 9: ..................................................... In the Law on the Budget of State Social Security for 2021 (DV, No. 103 from 2020) in Annex 1 to art. 9, p. 1 after the table, the following notes are added: 1. The minimum social security income for workers who work part-time or incomplete months under the terms of the contract shall be determined in proportion to the statutory working hours, respectively, to the full number of working days of the month. 2. The minimum insurance income for workers and employees working in specialized enterprises, labour facilities and cooperatives of people with disabilities under the Disabilities Act shall be set at a rate of 50 per cent of the minimum insurance income for the relevant economic activity and qualification group of profession. 3. The guarantor shall determine the main economic activity according to the prevailing number of employees in employment. The definition of the group of professions is carried out according to the structure of the National Classification of Occupations and Jobs. Where the insurer carries out two or more economic activities, its main economic activity shall be determined by the activity in which the largest number of persons working in the employment relationship are employed. In this case, the designation shall not take into account workers and employees who are generally related to all the activities of the insurer. In the case of an equal number of employees in each activity, the main economic activity of the insurance provider shall be determined at his choice. 4. The minimum social security income shall not apply to municipal councillors, employees in budgetary undertakings within the meaning of § 1, item 1. 1 of the additional provision of the Accounting Act and of the elected manager, controller, cashier and members of the management and control board of the floor property under the Floor Property Management Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u41	Statements on the proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova for a new § 9? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the proposed new § 9. They voted 126 MPs: 122, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u42	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 10: ..................................................... In the Law on Corporate Income Tax (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: In the case of aid granted under ? (3) Where the condition for tax exemption under art. 208, the tax base for determining the cost tax is the total amount of expenditure charged for the calendar month. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 214, para. 2 the words "sixteen BGN" shall be replaced by "sixteen BGN" and "sixteen BGN." The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8, which shall become § 11: ..................................................... Paragraphs 1 and 2 shall apply until 31 December 2022 inclusive. Under § 9 there is a proposal of the MP Alexander Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9, which shall become § 12: ................................................................................... The law shall enter into force from 1 January 2021, with the exception of: 1. paragraph 7 which shall enter into force from the day of the promulgation of the law in the Official Journal of the European Union; 2. paragraph 8, which shall enter into force from 10 December 2020
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u43	I shall open the debate on the proposal for a new § 10 (8) and (9) importer, which shall become paragraphs 11 and 12. I don't see anyone who wants to make speeches. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote a new § 10 as well as the wording of § 8, which shall become § 11, by importer and the wording of § 9, which shall become § 12, as amended by the Commission. They voted 124 MPs: 95, none, abstention 29. The proposals have been accepted. That's what we've done with the Bill. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR LOCAL SELF-ORGANIZATION AND LOCAL ADMINISTERATION. Mr. Vesselinoff, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u44	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Report for the second vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Government and Local Administration, No 902-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers, adopted in the first vote on 11 April 2019. The Law on Local Self-Management and Local Administration is amended and supplemented by the Law on Local Self-Management and Local Administration. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is It's six. adopt and amend the annual budget of the municipality, including the indicators under art. 45, para. 1, t. 2 of the Public Finance Act for the districts, mayors and settlements with mayors, except those which are designated as secondary officers with budget according to art. 11, para. 10 of the Public Finance Act, controls and accepts its implementation report. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 44, It's five o'clock. organize the implementation of the municipal budget, including the timely implementation of the indicators established by the municipal council under art. 52, para. 2 for the districts, town halls and settlements with mayor's deputies. According to § 3 there is a proposal of the MP Iskren Veselinov. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 52 the following 1. A new para is being created. 2 and 3: (2) The municipal council, on a proposal from the mayor of the municipality, shall confirm the indicators under art. 45, para. 1, t. 2 of the Public Finance Act for the districts, mayors and settlements with mayors, except those which are designated as secondary officers with budget according to art. 11, para. 10 of the Public Finance Act. (3) The mayor of the municipality, the mayors of the mayors, the mayors of the mayors, the mayors of the mayors or the officials appointed by them shall be included in the chambers of the committees under art. 103 of the Public Procurement Act, participate in the drafting of acts and protocols during the construction under the Law on Construction of the territory and the regulations on its implementation, and in the commission for commissioning the commission for commissioning of construction works. 2. A new para is being created. 5 and 6: In the case of renting out, renting out, using wood and non-woody forest products and in the case of disposal of property and property, municipal property located in the territory of the respective locality outside the territory of the municipal centre, outside the cases of privatisation, with the decision under art. 21, para. 1, t. 8 The municipal council shall determine: 1. no less than 30 percent of the proceeds from the sale of municipal non-financial assets shall be used to finance the construction, as a major and ongoing repair of the social and technical infrastructure in the territory of the respective settlement; 2. not less than 30 percent of the proceeds from the disposal of another municipal property, outside the property under point 2. 1, by rent, by lease of agricultural land and forest areas and by the use of wood and non-woody forest products from forests, municipal property, to be used to carry out activities of local importance in the respective settlement. (6) The cost indicators under art. 45, para. 1, t. 2 points (a) and (b) of the Public Finance Act shall be determined on the basis of objective criteria defined by the ordinance under art. 82, para. 1 of the Public Finance Act and capital expenditure under art. 45, para. 1, t. 2 point (e) of the Public Finance Act shall be determined on the basis of up-to-date data on the state of social and technical infrastructure in the region or in the locality drawn up by the structure unit of the territory, together with the mayor of the area, with the mayor of the town hall or with the mayor of the locality, taking into account also the projects implemented by the European Union funds.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u45	Statements on the name of the bill as well as paragraphs 1, 2 and 3? Here you go, Mr. Dinkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u46	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The amendments to the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration were caused mainly by the meetings and demands of the representatives of the town halls in Bulgaria. There was also a meeting at the Prime Minister Mr. Boyko Borisov, were widely announced, but the changes we are now making do not give a solution to the demands of the mayors of small towns. In any case, the municipal councils are again determining the city's budgets and if they decide, they are betting funds that will be needed to implement social and technical infrastructure events in the town halls. There are three types of municipalities and three types of attitude of the mayors - this is from my practice. The first is when the mayors look at the right position and try to solve the problems of the town hall along with the problems of the municipal centers. The second make a schedule and in the four years consistently solves the problems of certain town halls. However, there are also those who neglect them and pay more attention to the municipal center. With the definition of para. Article 6 52 what are we saying? The results shall be determined on the basis of current data on the state of technical and social infrastructure in the region or in the locality drawn up by the structure unit of the territory, together with the mayor of the area, the mayor of the town hall or the mayor's deputy, taking into account the projects implemented by the European Union. It is only natural that this territorial and urban unit will make such decisions as the mayor has imposed, as they are subordinate to it. It is good that we include the mayors in the committees that conduct public procurement for the sale of property, for the sale of wood and other events, and that... [[Noise in the hall. The Members of the National Assembly shall speak to each other.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u47	Just a minute. Stop, stop, stop, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u48	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u49	Stop that for a second. How long and how many times do I have to warn the honourable Members to stop talking? [[Replication by National Representative Krasimir Tsipov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u50	...not less than 30% of the proceeds to be in the disposal of the respective municipal office for solving local issues. The texts so written, however, are desirable to me. They will not solve regional differences and also issues related to the demographic crisis that are raging in small towns. So on this text we will abstain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u51	Thank you, Mr. Dinkov. Are there any lines on the speech of the MP Dinkov? I don't see anyone who wants to. Are there any other speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. Mr. Vesselinoff, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u52	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleague! I would first of all like to say that the current texts are the product of a very intense debate that happened, firstly, in the Council of Ministers, of course, which introduced the original version of the Law, and, secondly, within the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government. Debate, which was not excluded from any member but incorporated representatives of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria and mayors of town halls. We were looking for an option that would actually guarantee the prevention, unfortunately, of some perversions in the practice of local self-government, when opposing its mayor of City Hall and, accordingly, municipal mayor, the opposition leads to permanent neglect of certain settlements at the expense of others and for years, for the respective settlements not to receive what is due to him as budget funding, or for infrastructure, or for his activities. The truth is that we cannot get out of the Local Self-government Act and its philosophy, where the local self-government body is the municipal council. What we are doing is asking the municipal councils to define in a public way, through a regulation, criteria by which all settlements will be financed. These criteria must be objective as the length of a road network, for example, street, excuse me, or the number of inhabitants, or some combination of them. In general, these criteria are known in the regulations of the Ministry of Finance and it is not a coincidence that we make constant references to these regulations. What I think we are doing, and what mayors of town halls are pleased with, is first of all, to guarantee a very small amount of funding from their property, which, being in the territory of the small settlements concerned, is being used, generates revenue for the municipality, but often these revenues do not reach the respective settlements at all. Firstly, we are creating here a guaranteed minimum of funds, which of these revenues will enter the respective town halls and can be implemented events for the construction of technical and social infrastructure. The second thing we do, in fact, the third, by adding the regulation and, accordingly, the objective criteria for allocating the municipal budget to settlements, is that we create maximum publicity and through the municipal council it would be difficult to defend total discrimination in a populated area. The only claim of mayors of town halls, which we cannot satisfy, is some kind of shady regime, a punishment against mayors of municipalities if they do not comply with the Law. After all, we write the laws with the idea that they will be executed. In addition, after the closure of the financial year concerned, there are enough control bodies, the Court of Auditors and financial control, and so on, which pass and which may seek the appropriate administrative or other responsibility of one mayor of the municipality if he does not comply with what is laid down in the Law. In this sense, we have all been driven by the desire to create a maximum guarantee. We've done the law. However, the fact is that if there is a desire to break the Law, we cannot in the Law on Local Self-government and the Local Administration provide for such mechanisms, which are criminal and respectively respect the intruder. However, I believe that in the rest of our legal system there are enough standards to discipline the mayors of municipalities.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u53	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Are there lines? Mr. Dinkov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u54	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Veselinov, everything you say is true. The point is, yes, we are granting some funds as a percentage of 30% of the proceeds from sales of property, wood and others, which is a step forward. However, in the end, the texts that are recorded do not oblige either the mayor or the municipal councillors to adopt a budget in which to really set certain indicators to meet the needs of the settlements. And the representatives of the Association of Small Villages, the town halls said it in our committee. I understand that it may be difficult to record some mandatory character, but in the end, perhaps in this regard, we should have refined the texts so that the mayors would be obliged to include in their budgets events related to the needs of a certain population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u55	Thank you, Mr. Dinkov. Are there any other lines? I don't see anyone who wants to. Mr. Veselinov, come on in for your douche.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u56	The only thing I can say is that the law is mandatory for everyone, there are no wishful thinking laws. No one can prevent anyone from breaking the Law, but in the end we create the norm, and the deviations from the norm will be sanctioned in another order. It's within the backrest. I'm making an alternative procedural proposal. 6, on which colleagues want to abstain, to be voted separately. [[Reply from the National Representative Nikola Dinkov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u57	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u58	I suggested an al. 6, on which you want to abstain, to vote separately so that you can support the other texts, right?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u59	Are there any other statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the name of the Law and § 1 as amended by the Commission. 140 MPs voted: 140, no opposition and no abstentions. The name and § 1 have been accepted. I shall put to the vote the wording of Paragraph 2 as amended by the Commission. They voted 136 MPs: for 136 against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 2 has been accepted. I shall put to the vote § 3, para. 1 to 5 inclusive, no para. 6. They voted 133 MPs: 132, none, abstention 1. Paragraph 3, no para. Six has been accepted. I'm only voting on par. 6 of § 3. They voted 134 MPs: 104, none, abstention 30. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u60	Proposal from the MPs Spas Panchev and Alexander Sabanov: A section of transitional and final provisions shall be established with § 4 and 5: ............................................ In the Law on the Administrative and Territorial Device of the Republic of Bulgaria in art. 16, p. 1 the number The Commission does not support the proposal under § 4. Proposal by the MP Iskren Veselinov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: In § 4, the number The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Iskren Veselinov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Spas Panchev and Alexander Sabanov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the MP Iskren Veselinov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MP Iskren Veselinov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to set up a division called "Transitional and Final Provisions" with § 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8: "Transitional and final provisions' § 4. In the Law on the Administrative and Territorial Device of the Republic of Bulgaria (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. Article 14 is amended as follows: Art. 14. City hall is a population of over 350 people with a permanent address. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15 para. 1 is amended as follows: . (1) The territory of the town hall is the territory of the locality. 3. Article 16 and 17 shall be repealed. 4. Article 31 is amended as follows: Art. 31. Locality of City Hall which, on the day of the promulgation of the decree of the President of the Republic for the imposition of general elections for municipal councillors and for mayors, does not meet the requirement of art. 14, Loses City Hall Status. § 5. (1) The settlements which, on the day of the promulgation of the decree of the President of the Republic for the imposition of general elections for municipal councillors and mayors shall comply with the requirement of art. 14 of the Law on the Administrative and territorial structure of the Republic of Bulgaria, acquire the status of city hall and produce elections for mayors of mayors at the same time as the production of elections for municipal councillors and for mayors. (2) The mayors of the settlements which, on the day of the entry into force of this law, meet the requirements of art. 14 of the Law on the Administrative and Territorial Device of the Republic of Bulgaria, continue to carry out their powers until an oath is taken by the newly elected Mayor of City Hall. (3) In the event of early termination of the authority of a mayor's deputy in a locality under para. 2 The mayor of the municipality can appoint a new mayor. § 6. In the transitional and final provisions of the Law amending the Law on Local Taxes and Fees ( SG No. 71 from 2020 ) in § 3, para. 1 after the words? 13 March 2020............................................................................................................................................................ § 7. In the Law on Municipal Property (prom., SG No. ...) in art. The following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. The fifth sentence of the second sentence is canceled. 2. Paragraph 7 is amended as follows: . (7) The mayors of districts, mayors of town halls, mayors or employees appointed by them from the relevant administration shall be included in the composition of the committees for the conduct of tenders or contests where the lease, lease or disposal of property in the territory of the region or in the respective locality shall be carried out by the mayor of the municipality, as well as in the committees for the award of activities and for the use of wood and non-woody forest products from the forestry territories in the respective locality. § 8. In the Election Code (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 463, para. 1 words.............................................................................. 16, p. the following point is inserted after point (c) of Article 4 (1):
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u61	Thank you. Statements on the paragraphs proposed for discussion? Mr. Dinkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u62	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! In 2015, the elections for mayors of town halls were voted in 3461 settlements, as the Law was such that over 100 people voted for mayor of town hall. In the last election after the change, when the number became 350, it was voted in 1968 City Halls, or 270 thousand people had no right to vote for mayor of their settlement. And in these settlements there are no public services, no doctor, no policeman, no pharmacy, the mayor is everything, and people want to choose the mayor themselves. Now, in the settlements below 350 people, the mayor's deputy can't sign off on a power of attorney and people have to drive to the community center. Our proposal earlier, and now it is an election to have in the villages, in the town halls over 100 people. In this regard, Mr. Chairman, I am also doing procedure.... the vote under art. 14 to become three degrees: first to vote for 100 people, second to 250 and then to 350 people, as is the proposal on the Commission report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u63	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Sabanov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u64	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We at IMRO have always suggested that people should have the choice to choose the mayor and not to have him down a party line by anyone else to serve the interests of the particular party from which the mayor of this municipality is. The mayor, whoever he is, must serve the citizens of small and large settlements. In this case we have a proposal for 100 people, we have a proposal for 250. We remain in a position where nothing changes despite the many disgruntled citizens who during the elections expressed their dissatisfaction with the fact that they are being placed with a person whom they have not even had many such cases. I think that was a mistake we made right now. After the Prime Minister said it would be 100 people to 100 people there would be a mayor, said the Prime Minister on TV, I do not understand why colleagues from GERB did not support this proposal. After all, in March, when we walk among the people, it is clear and we need to know from everyone who protects the interests of the people of the small settlements the people who want to choose a mayor! Yeah, there's probably going to be expenses, so I'm guessing the motives in one part are going to be these... there's going to be costs for printing ballots. But so what? Democracy costs money and has always cost money. The spending for much less important works is much bigger than for the important for us Bulgarian citizens who live in small settlements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u65	Thank you, Mr. Sabanov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u66	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Members of Parliament! In 2016 an amendment to the Election Code shall be made to art. 16, p. 1 of the Law on the Administrative and Territorial Device of the Republic of Bulgaria. The threshold for the formation of mayorships is amended from 100 to 350 residents at a permanent address. The last four years have clearly proved that this calls into question the freedom of volition of voters in the settlements. The increase in the threshold for the formation of town halls was carried out without preparing and presenting an expert analysis of the demographic picture of the settlements in the Republic of Bulgaria. The arguments put forward for the appropriateness and effectiveness of spending public funds on the organisation of elections for mayors of town halls are untenable and do not cause citizens to be deprived of the right to exercise their vote. On the contrary, there is a growing doubt that the legislation gives a real opportunity, the door for the appointment of comfortable people is wide open, or they are forced by the circumstances to comply with municipal administration and municipal mayors, not with the needs and needs of the people in the settlements, and 100 people. As a result of these changes, more than 270 thousand citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria and over 1100 settlements cannot choose their mayor directly, as well as be elected. The proposal made under § 4 This will enable the ruling majority to clear all doubts and prove that the democratic principle of voting rights of every Bulgarian citizen must be adopted and every MP of the majority to state this position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u67	Thank you, Ms. Nencheva. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u68	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Practice, and life mostly proved that we have made a mistake in changing legislation. At the moment, we have the opportunity to correct this mistake and bring our legislation into line with European law. What is European practice, colleagues? The European practice is towards decentralisation and self-government to the lowest possible levels. Here I can give you an example with France, Switzerland, Italy, where there is a slightly different territorial principle of division, but it is still similar, similar to the principle in Bulgaria, where there exist settlements or settlements with 20 and 25 people, even with five. Any such locality shall have the right to choose a representative representing it before the relevant administrative authorities. I think this way of governance has been proven in Europe as more effective, and I think it does not require so much money. Eventually, we could also reason on the means. Here again, I will set an example with a Western-European Member State of the European Union, namely Spain, where up to a certain number of residents, I think it was 10 thousand. The mayor of the settlement is not entitled to remuneration. And there, I stress, and there, as well as here, the main actor is the secretary of the municipality. It is no coincidence that the Bulgarian legislation requires higher education for the municipality's secretary, until no education is required for the mayor. It is for this reason that I believe that there are the prerequisites and that we should conduct the famous decentralisation that we have been talking about for a long time, but we are only talking about it from the stands and we are not taking any action. We must enable small settlements, people living in them, to define themselves and choose to be guided by people close to them, understand their problems and will be willing to solve them at least because they will be residents of the respective settlement and will hurt them how it develops. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u69	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. Are there any lines? I can't see. Mr. Prodanov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u70	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! It is clear to all of BSP's strong political position that we are about as many citizens as possible having the right to exercise their right to choose who to govern them. By the way, in the previous statements it became clear that thanks to the change that was made three years ago, really 270 thousand Bulgarian citizens were taken away from constitutional rights to vote on which mayor to manage their small settlement. In fact, honourable Members, the elections in the small settlement in my opinion this is really the most conscious choice that can take place in Bulgaria, for the simple reason that in this small settlement there live up to 100 people. And the candidate, who is the mayor of this locality, is well known for years to all his villagers and covens, everyone knows his qualities well, everyone knows what he is capable of, everyone is familiar with his CV. Here, believe me, the party principle does not make such a big difference, because the people there, in these small places, do not vote for parties, but vote really for a person, really for abilities, really for opportunities to solve problems. In this way, we did not do it, but you did it three years ago, taking away the rights of these people to make their conscious choices, we think it was a mistake. We therefore call on you now to correct this mistake by once again enabling these people to vote directly and to determine who is to govern them, no matter which party it is from, but to mainly bear in mind what it can, in order to solve the problems of the settlement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u71	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov. Are there lines? Mr. Sabanov, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u72	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Prodanov, I do not see your proposal in the report. I understand that you are in favour of our 100, but in the end, when you speak from this tribune, your representatives especially are in favour of such proposals, it is nice to really do so. If my memory is correct, you are not more than 40 people in this Chamber when such a proposal is to be passed, and it is important for your political party, and it is good to provide the people in this Chamber so that you can support such proposals with dignity. We see that your political party once again says it will support something, and finally there are too few people in this House to pass the proposal for either 100 or 250 people. I really call on you, if there are enough people in Parliament who are of your political power, to summon them and bring them into this House so that they can vote. [[Heckling]] There are a lot of empty rows, Mr. Gokov! You've got a lot of empty lines! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u73	Sick! Sick!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u74	Thank you, Mr. Sabanov. Is there another line? I don't see anyone who wants to. Mr. Prodanov for the dot.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u75	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Sabanov, we have repeatedly made this proposal, which we are currently discussing, and, unfortunately, you have not supported it so far! [[(Shouts from "BSP" for Bulgaria]] So you shouldn't blame us in a double standard, because, first, as I said, we are consistent when this proposal was accepted to raise the threshold of 350 inhabitants, even then we expressed our position. The other thing you are looking for as causes by the opposition, you are ultimately the ruling coalition, you are the ruling majority, and you are in your capacity to accept or reject this proposal. So don't look for any excuses in whether the opposition is in the Chamber in all its format or not, because it is entirely the work of your coalition relations and of your coalition policy. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u76	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov. Statements? A line?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u77	That was a doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u78	There's no line. That was a doppelganger. There are speeches. Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u79	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We from the "United patriots" from the previous parliament have worked not to raise the number of people in small towns to elect a mayor. This is obvious and clear to all who have been in the previous and in this Parliament of all our proposals and all our talks, because we believe that in small towns people, citizens should choose their mayors. We have always been consistent, we have always made proposals in this direction, unlike BSP colleagues, who are always claiming that everything is theirs and offering it, and they are not in the Chamber to vote, and then they say: "You are the majority. " - Well, when you, colleagues from BSP, want to help these people in small towns, gather your parliamentary group and support it. This is not about a coalition, this is not about a parliamentary majority, this is about the interest of the citizens of small towns. Because we have always wanted and the proposal that we have now made for 100 people we have supported for 200 and 250 people, we have always wanted in these settlements to have democracy and people to choose the right person to manage them and to help them and to solve their problems. Because many municipalities in Bulgaria, unfortunately, have become feudal domains. Municipal mayors became feudals. If we reduce the number of people in the small settlements that will vote, we will help these municipalities democratize because now the mayor appoints this fellow party member, his other fellow party member. And worse still, to make a majority in the municipal council of this party a mayor's deputy of this party, a mayor's deputy. That's how they decide, unfortunately, problems. I call on colleagues from GERB to support this proposal [[Applause and excitement from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Because the Prime Minister personally met with the Association of Small Villages made a commitment and said that for him it is the right and most regular 100 people to choose a mayor. So I call on all of us to really make sure that people in small towns, despite all the problems that have been unsolved for a century now, can at least choose the mayors and have someone to rely on. Colleagues of the BSP, I ask you once again to enter the Chamber, and call your chairman of the BSP, let her come to the vote, not to be absent from this important decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u80	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. A line? Mr. Gokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Angelov, I have no intention of entering into a dispute with you despite your extremely incorrect attitude towards the BSP group. You know very well that our consistent position is that 100 people should choose a mayor at least because it is not worth anything to the state. This position we have defended consistently within this Parliament from the first to the last moment when the Election Code was examined. That is why I say it is incorrect to address the parliamentary group. I'll tell you why it's still incorrect. Because you're in the ruling coalition. If you wanted to push through this desire, which is our wish, we will provide support to 50 people here as many people as are here, because there are sick people, and if you wanted to ensure the passing of this decision: 100 people can choose the mayor of the settlement, you would twist GERB's hands in the ruling coalition, as you twisted their hands yesterday to change the name of May 24th. These things are easy and they're negotiating in the coalition. You can't transfer! Now you want to be populists, to tell people how you think about them, how to manage themselves, and at the same time to accuse BSP of not doing your job, and you haven't done your job in the ruling coalition. Well, tell these things to the people: we can't fight GERB.. Enough pointing to the left and blaming and looking for a solution to the issue to the left. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] There's nothing to find there! Look for it in you! People see this as much as you speak from this tribune and point to the left, no one will believe you!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u82	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Second line, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u83	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Colleague Gyokov basically left me nothing for the line. Mr. Angelov, you and I respect each other and in personal dialogues we have debated constructively many times. One thing I wanted to tell you is this: there are people in our group who follow the measures, and that is why they are not in the Chamber right now. All those who are healthy and able to work at the moment, despite the epidemic, are here in the Chamber. I assure you of that! The second thing that's interesting is that you can't really, as Mr. Gokov said, you in the coalition, in advance, and not here, do these theatre performances in the hall? Talk to each other, understand how the vote will take place, specify your proposals. They know very well, you're not making them for the first time! On the other hand, we will support this proposal of yours. Then, Mr. Angelov, why is this emotional speech of yours here and the address to the BSP? BSP is not your fault for anything, on the contrary........................... are those who are the carriers of the mandate and turn to them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Mr. Veselinov, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u85	Dear Mr. Angelov, I am taking a reply to make a correction to your speech, that is to ask for such a correction, because in the previous and in the current term we are fighting not for raising, but for reducing the number of voters in a local place to be a mayor and accordingly to elect a mayor. Moreover, we achieved such a reduction in the previous term because it took 500 people before to elect a mayor, and now there are 350 people. This happened within a dialogue with GERB. Unfortunately, I think that was the limit we were able to convince them of. In the framework of this mandate, I think we are the only ones who have tabled such proposals...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u86	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u87	...and we should thank our BSP colleagues for supporting us, even if they are now only 40 people in this room, I'm sorry that the epidemic is so cruel and thus thinned their ranks. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] That's all I wanted to correct you. I really hope that the majority, i.e. one of the parties in charge, will not bless its own prime minister and support our proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u88	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Mr. Angelov's doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Vesselinoff, you're right. We have really managed to make it so that, by talking and persuading, we have reduced from 500 to 350 people for the town halls to choose their mayors. This is what we have been able to achieve, but we believe that we really need to continue and make the number even lower in order to have a real democratic choice in these settlements. Mr. Chenchev, I thank you for what you say about your proposals, referring to our proposals over the years because they do. And my attitude towards your parliamentary group was because the negotiators almost said that they brought everything in and only they protected it and there was no one else. That is my argument to criticize the behaviour of your parliamentary group. The other thing that is, Mr. Chenchev, I do not know if your ranks have been so affected by the pandemic to be gone, but I do know that since the beginning of September you have had over 300 notifications for official reasons not to be present in the Chamber, including the chairwoman, which means that it is not quarantined or any other reason, but just for personal or any other party tours. That's a fact right now. Let us make a reference today and see from your parliamentary group how many signed notifications there are and will receive wage for the day that they were pretending to work and will be excused. It's the truth! Our parliamentary group in three months has eight such absences, and you in three months have 300. You only have 30 today. [[Heckling]] To get your wages! It's the truth! Mr. Gokov, thank you for the line you made me, because this time it wasn't someone to write it to you, but you spoke from the heart. [[(Radio and lines from GERB and OP. Replica of the National Representative Georgi Gokov: Nobody writes me anything, unlike you!]] So thank you! [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u90	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Please! Speech from the stands, no shouting! And put on your mask, please! Mr. Gokov, the mask! [[(Reply of the National Representative Georgi Gokov:]] Well, don't scream! You have no right to shout art. 155, para. Two! [[Noise and lines.]] I don't see anyone who wants to! I'm closing the debate. Mr. Dinkov, you proposed to vote art. 14 Separately, but with the very vote on the proposals, we are actually voting separately. We have a proposal by the MPs Spas Panchev and Alexander Sabanov.. for 250, the second proposal is by Iskren Veselinov... for 100. Once we vote on them, we are actually going to the editorial text. So there is no reason and there is no way to divide them into art. 14 has no separate digit. We are going to vote on the proposals made. First, I vote on the proposal of the MPs Spas Panchev and Aleksandar Sabanov for § 4 and 5......................................................................... to....................................................................................................................................................................... They voted 143 MPs: for 67, against 3, abstention 73. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the unaccepted proposal by the Commission, made by the Parliamentary Representative Iskren Veselinov. They voted 145 MPs: 66, against 4, abstention 75. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u91	Revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u92	Revoting procedure for this proposal of the MP Iskren Veselinov. Here you go. Let's go, let's go, let's go, [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u93	I would like, Mr. President, a re-voting procedure, as some Members have not been able to vote and exercise their right to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u94	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Does anyone disagree with the procedural proposal? No. I would like to rethink the proposal of the MP Iskren Veselinov. Vote 148 MPs: 68 against 4, abstention 76. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the Commission's proposal for a Section on Transitional and Final Provisions and on the texts of paragraphs 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 as amended by the Commission. They voted 136 MPs: 91, against 5, abstention 40. The name of the section, as well as paragraphs 4
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u95	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! There is an additional report to Report No 053-04-36 of 7 December 2020 on the second vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Government and Local Administration, No 902-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers, adopted at the first vote on 11 April 2019. Proposal by the National Representative Alexander Nenkov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 9: ..................................................... In the transitional and final provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Construction in the Area (prom., SG No. ...) in § 149, the words
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u96	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Are there any speeches? Mr. Bonev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! To explain what we are putting off once again, for the third time this is a delay, a delay. From 2012 until now, three times has been postponed the preparation of common plans of the municipalities. I am provoked by the fact that we also had a parliamentary inquiry on the failure of municipalities and the inability to provide assistance from the Ministry of Regional Development to municipalities to prepare common planning. 2018 turned out that 150 municipalities have been entrusted and about 120 municipalities still do not have planning plans. This is 2018, so far the picture is exactly the same. Now, for most of you, perhaps the common design plan is a colorful picture that stands at the entrance of the municipality, without making it clear that the real common design plans give the long-term and sustainable vision of the municipality. The common design plan is precisely that foundation, on which the municipal and regional strategy of Bulgaria is set, and this endless delay of the general planning plans in one way or another should cease as mentality and procedure. As early as 2018 we knew what the main problems were, we knew about the problems in the Ministry of Environment and Water, we knew about the problems in the Ministry of Regional Development, so that may well be why mayors are justified. I'm just going to make one particular example. The Ministry of Environment and Water has not yet issued orders for protected areas. This is, I would say, one of the most important reasons why the procedures themselves cannot start, although the minister last Friday played a vaudeville here, a pacquiel from the stands, and it turns out that it is at least one of the reasons why this planning is not happening. On the other hand, the Ministry of Regional Development cannot organise a common methodology to help municipalities which do not have administrative capacity at least, on the one hand, on spatial planning, on the other hand, in the conduct of public procurement. In the context of all that I have said and the forthcoming programming period in which municipalities should apply for euro funds, to postpone the planning, to draw up precisely such planning plans, I would say that we should stop it and as quickly as possible to help municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u98	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Are there lines? I can't see. Mr. Genov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u99	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We, in our group, will support this proposal - one of the dozen delays in various laws - for reasons, above all, in failing the administration with legislative deadlines. This issue of general planning and Mr. Veselinov and Mr. Nenkov have discussed it over the years. In the previous postponement, I think, of the general planning so far, no one has bothered to see which is the bureaucratic black hole, which prevents municipalities from developing their common planning and they enter into force. To those listed here by my colleague before me, I would add the Ministry of Culture, rather the cultural and historical heritage, because there files are delayed for months, for some municipalities and for years. From this tribune we have asked the Minister: is there a sanctioned mayor for inaction? The Ministry of Regional Development provides some of the funds for the development of common planning, there are mayors who care and don't lift a finger for this thing to happen. Under the Regional Development Act, the Minister has the right to sanction such mayors. I've never heard of a mayor being fined because there's really a fine, the penalty is fine, that he hasn't done anything about making the common plan. So we will support this because it is in the interests of economic and public life in the country, but let us go back to the idea to really do, as the colleague said, a methodology for the development of these plans and to provide a faster path on the part of bureaucratic procedures in the various departments, because there are extremely many concerts there and indeed this two-year period to be a two-year period and the state in the face of the Ministry of Regional Development and the other departments that agree to provide a quick track on which these common planning plans will pass and enter into force because they are in the interest of all Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u100	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Are there any lines? I don't see anyone who wants to. Any other speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the proposal for a new § 9 as amended by the Commission. Vote 108 MPs: for 106, against none, abstention 2. The proposal has been passed, and the bill has been passed. Let's continue with: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR PUBLIC PROCUREMENTS. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Who will present the report? Mrs. Ilieva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before we move on to the Law, I'm going to ask for a pass procedure. On the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please allow Mrs. Miglena Pavlova to be admitted to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u102	Thank you. I shall put the proposal to the vote. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u103	On 14 October 2020, the Council of Ministers submitted a report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act No 002-01-50, adopted by the Council of Ministers on the first vote on 29 October 2020. The draft for the second vote. The Law on Public Procurement was amended and supplemented by the Law on Public Procurement. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. Proposal of the National Representative Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs for the creation of a new § 1: A new § 1 is being created. § 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 14, para. 1 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: The following point shall be , (d) the legal contractor shall perform at least 90 per cent of the subject-matter of the contract with its own machinery, equipment and human resources, without using subcontractors or the capacity of third parties. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 6 the words "in" and "in" are replaced by "in" letters, "in" and "d" are replaced by "in" letters. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u104	Thank you. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear MPs, one of the most common corruption schemes is related to public procurement at state, regional or municipal level. In accordance with the Law, the contract is awarded to a certain contractor, which predates the part to be performed by subcontractors and which will be up to 30 percent. It shall register with the Public Procurement Agency. In practice, the main contractor or part of the subcontractors, often hollow companies, enter into a contract with the real contractors under much less favourable conditions for them. They should have a profit that will inevitably affect the quality of implementation. However, these contracts are not registered with the Agency and the difference in payment goes to power the corruption scheme and the corrupt circle is closed after real subcontractors are paid minimally or not paid for the work done. This is the opinion on the website of the Bulgarian Industrial Association, which outlines this corruption scheme. What are the results and consequences of it? This is: circumvention of the Law, corruption schemes and practices, poor performance and, of course, costing the project. Our proposal to tear this corruption scheme apart, and it was read by this tribune, is the following: a performer who will perform at least 90 percent of the subject of the order with his own machines, facilities and human resources, without using a delegate or capacity of third parties. "The purpose of our proposal is to tear down this corruption practice and scheme. There are many examples. There is no way, for example, that "Montaj" JSC can perform the construction works of the dams with a capacity of about 20 people within the time frame. That's impossible. This is also the example with the Automagistrals, which has 3 billion AD. and 200 million budget.. limited opportunities such as technique and human resources, and without the necessary human resources, be able to carry out the contract itself. When this does not happen, when there is no resources of the respective contractor, we are going into this scheme, which I described in detail from the tribune which is described, as I said, on the site of the Bulgarian Industrial Association. Therefore, please support this proposal. I know that you too are aware, or I hope you will realize, that in practice, the other proposals that are for amendments to the Public Procurement Act actually allow for the circumvention of the Law. The results of the circumvention of the Law will be precisely this: the loss of billions of levs for the Bulgarian taxpayer and the Bulgarian economy as a whole, corruption schemes and practices, the award of hollow companies to subcontractors and so on. We've described it very thoroughly. Please support this proposal if you are sincere in your desire to fight corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u106	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Baichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u107	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I will begin by joining my colleague Philip Popov. I will try to further develop his thesis, namely that our proposal has several main objectives. The first of them is transparency with regard to the performer, because it is not only the choice, as we have heard, but also who performs. There is no way companies with 20 people, lack of technique, lack of management potential, lack of professional competence to fulfil their obligations, and then rehire others and thus create a food chain that is of non-existent qualities and which cannot exist in normal economic conditions. However, this food chain exists thanks to the direct assignment of implementation. I would say that this performer plays his part as a money distributor and whom exactly they should fall into. I think it's a vicious practice that needs to be stopped. We could also draw the relevant conclusions as to whether a company should be allowed to tender, whether a second contract should be awarded to it, provided that it does not have the capacity and has not fulfilled the first such contract. It will also be possible to bear clear responsibility, apart from administrative and criminal, in respect of those persons who have committed an infringement and have violated their professional commitments in the execution of the contract concerned. We believe that it will also be possible to implement the reduction in the cost of the order, as it will become clear that it does not need to be submitted, but will be executed directly by the contractor, where the quality of the contract can be increased. It will also be possible to carry out an easier and more effective control in the performance of the obligation concerned, rather than to apply several contracts to rehire the activity concerned or to award a particular activity to perform by other contractors. I ask you to support our proposal as it is in context and in line with the European requirements for the quality of public procurement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u108	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. - What's the line? I won't. We continue with the speeches. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are making this proposal in the context of the practice applied so far with the introduction of this norm to enable the contracting authority to make the so-called internal assignment of companies controlled by it. You know that this was done by this National Assembly as an exception. Unfortunately, reality has turned this into practice. We have essentially depreciated the Public Procurement Act. A huge part of the state's investment programme is being allocated billions. The most dramatic example is highways. You see that nearly 4 billion are assigned to this company, with full awareness that there is no necessary management, technical and personnel capacity to perform these activities, but successfully thereafter, without any public control, is entrusted to private companies. We would like to limit this opportunity because, in particular, you, on the right hand side of the market economy, have essentially introduced a state capitalism. We have distorted the market environment to a maximum extent and deprived any possibility of competition, and in this case, for example, the construction sector. No one is currently able to clearly determine the given service whether it will be performed at the best price. By doing so, we deprive society of all the control it has if it is in the ordinary order of the Public Procurement Act. You know that we have an open procedure there, we have requested participants, we have the publicity of the contracts that are signed, there is an opportunity until the completion of the procedure and its implementation to the maximum extent that there is public control over how and how these funds are spent. With these internal assignments we've made, with the billions we've poured into these black holes, we essentially deprive society of publicity and the possibility of controlling these funds. We are also disturbing another point, namely the control and quality of implementation. In general, we have depreciated the entire construction process and the entire investment control that has been signed in our legislation in this way. In essence, the one who spends the money controls himself and checks himself. This also affects quality, and you therefore know that there is no opportunity to monitor who is ultimately responsible for the result that is being obtained. With this amendment, I ask for your support, because in the end we also protect the public interest and keep the public interest for the best transparent spending of public resources in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u110	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. - What's the line? I won't. Are there any other statements? Here you are, Mr. Ivanov, and Mr. Bojankov is after him.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u111	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! With regard to the BSP group's proposal, I think we should start from there that we have not heard a single statement at the moment on the implementation of the Law in the direction of why it should be changed. In particular, it goes to statements on the left side of the Chamber........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ And here I would like to announce that last week, on a proposal from colleagues in the Budget Committee, we have adopted such a draft audit decision for the Court of Auditors to be carried out on the company in which to focus its activities. Again, my fellow Members, we are talking here about the implementation of the Law, which is from 2016 and is on a proposal from BSP colleagues, about the inhouse award of the implementation of projects to be by state enterprises. I can't understand this collision and the change of vision for Bulgaria, which the BSP colleagues expressed in 2017, correct me if I'm mistaken, which says and says that there really should be more state participation and construction of infrastructure sites priority through state companies. It is their proposal, which is expressed in art. 14 of the Public Procurement Act - dropping such an opportunity for me, completely limiting this opportunity to have an inhouse award, and directly reoriented to some large companies perhaps. One that they have in mind, if they have one, to tell me what this private company is, which has prepared 90% machines, facilities and staff, if I am not fooled by the memory of their proposal to carry out such large infrastructure projects. Look, colleagues, we can debate a lot, but let's say that this is not a collision with the European Directive, but on the contrary there is a clear implementation of the Law, clear compliance with the Law and as a result we see the progressive construction of a large part of the Republican road network. For the past 10 years we have built about 400 km and the last six years over 205 km of highway. I'm not talking about the construction of bypass roads, the ring roads, that of Sofia, those of Botevgrad, of Vratsa, of Montana, there may be ones I miss. We are talking about projects, colleagues who are in front of the whole society, which are transparent, and I think that we, from here on out of this tribune, cannot throw false claims and suggestions, and that we can let it be judged by the independent state financial bodies. I think this is the right practice because any interference in current legislation and on the proposal of BSP colleagues, making it not working, with unclear definitions. For me, there is no economic logic to maintain such large investments, or people of state, if you want, of some feeder, as BSP colleagues would like to do. It's not applicable to me, and it would come out of good practice. Colleagues, let's face it, this is European practice. And yesterday, in the Legal Commission, there was a question to the Public Procurement Agency about whether the current legislation and its implementation was any kind of collision with the European directive? The answer is no, colleagues. The answer is not. That is why I do not see in the desire of BSP to change a working mechanism with which the highway of Hemus, 50 years after its first den, will be completed in a few years. The Bulgarian citizens will be able to go from Sofia to Burgas on a highway for three and a half hours to do it to Varna as well. I do not see why we need to change legislation in order to benefit perhaps a private company, as BSP colleagues wish, which will be prepared in advance with these machines, facilities and staff. If there is one, perhaps it is one, and it is good for colleagues to say, offer it and record it directly in the Public Procurement Act, so that the procedure is not so burdened. I will not comment on the vague texts, but perhaps it is the speed and desire of colleagues to really change the Law. Again, for me it is intended in the interest of a private company to eliminate the possibility of inhaus awarding, control of the state, control of investment in this area. And I think that the current compliance with the Law should not be changed by unprepared well, technically unsatisfied text and, again, the enforcement of the law is established by other authorities, not by us from the stands of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u112	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? Mr. Baychev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u113	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Ivanov, I completely disagree with you because these legislative changes that we are currently discussing and are the subject of debate are made and proposed to be an exception to the rule, while you, a colleague, have turned any exception into a rule. That's what I can tell you at first reading. From there on, since you wanted to be explained in detail, I'm going to give you a few figures that you can make sense of and say...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u114	Numbers.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u115	Okay, thanks for fixing the numbers. Serbia's highway is 165 km and 360 million. The highway, which is headed towards Dragoman, a colleague, is 18 km and is 320 million. A great difference is obtained in kilometers and prices, and it is not in our favor. And if you remember, the Serbian prime minister mocked us when they met with Mr. Borisov that they were still waiting for the highway. On the other hand, you are also on your way to Burgas. How many years have these bumps been on the road? Was there time to organise an auction and not to be on direct negotiation and direct award, as is currently the case? Highway "Hemus" which you expect to be completed again in a few years, it is again on direct negotiation and is without auction. Colleague, I'm sorry, but you highways, construction and public procurement, as you rightly noticed, have turned it into a party's public feeder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u116	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. Is there a second line? I can't see. A hole, Mr. Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u117	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear colleague Baichev, thank you for the line. This is where you fell into your own trap when you talked about Chirpan precinct near Stara Zagora on the highway. Remember that your government and personally Sergei Stanishev is the pride of your government and your road construction. All Bulgarian citizens remember who built the highway and now we are repairing it. But tell me on the other newly built routes where do you have notes? These baboons are a legacy from BSP management. [[BSP lines: "It is not true! "]] What's not true, colleagues? What's not true? Who built the highway? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u118	Colleagues, please. Mr. Genov, you can do...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u119	Not to mention the Lulin Highway, when a government of yours left, what did you leave to the Lyulin Highway of Pernik? Ask, then, who came to fix contracts again paid by you. Please, colleagues, do not fall alone into your own trap. So now we're talking about reconstruction, we're talking about building new road facilities, and I think that control is much more serious by the state in this way, and in front of the whole society. You say it yourself: the bumps along the way. Yes, there were many years, but then the European funds built by your government... we saw the result. All Bulgarian citizens, that foreigners travel in this 30 km section from Chirpan to Stara Zagora, think about the management of BSP and their road construction. Colleagues, please do not change anything working, something that happens at an accelerated pace and transparent in front of the whole society. I said how there is a State Financial Inspection Agency, there is a Court of Auditors that really monitor and observe these processes. Do not make legislation in two to ten to seek private interest, because you obviously want to transfer these functions of the state to private companies and I think this is not right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u120	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Bojankov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u121	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Public procurement, as one of the forms to guarantee competition and free enterprise, has long been compromised by your government and in most cases with a well-known winner. This is a vivid example of how you removed this annoying decor, which has been bothering you for a long time now that it is clear who will win public procurement and who will absorb the state resources. Naturally, the state resources must be absorbed as the Prime Minister has decided on the move from the car. This leads, of course, to poor construction, but the subject is long and we will not have enough debate to complete it. What we see is that a state-owned company with 40 employees and 20 accountants, which has become a hub for the distribution of state resources, is simply redirecting into a close circle of companies to power. Nothing more, nothing less, and that can in no way be justified. We also have the same examples in healthcare, in private hospitals, in the payment of medicines without public procurement, tenders and competitions. This becomes an emblem for your management, way of working. Inhaus the award was an exception which you turned into a rule, and introduced the Inhaus, but in Gerbajia. Unfortunately, colleagues, if I were to liken this method of work, I'd say you work as communists, but at least those were building quality and you're building low quality. You're like communists, but from Alie express. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u122	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Are there lines? Mr. Genov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u123	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members! I listened very carefully to Mr. Ivanov. He said that a working mechanism was created under the exception of legislation. This working mechanism smells more of a corruption mechanism, Mr. Ivanov. We're talking about transparency. I'll give you examples. See a state-owned enterprise "Montage" which had to deal with the dams. I haven't checked recently, but it hasn't published its financial statement in the name of this transparency that you're proclaiming here from this tribune. The other heavy example is with motorways. The co-worker said he had 40 technical faces and 20 accountants. What does he need those 20 accountants for? Apparently taking into account the work of these companies that supposedly work as subcontractors, those suppliers who deliver the materials again around the law. You may see 90% of the heavy conditions that can be covered or not. [[Noise, lines from GERB and OP.]] Enter some order, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u124	Guys, be quiet.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u125	Let's get back to the point. If you make a reference to the Law on Municipal Property, when municipalities create inhaus enterprises, it is very well recorded... clearly and precisely that their activity should be 90% for the activity they are created for. You said that there is a vague definition here, a vague formulation of what is proposed. I think that corresponds to existing legislation so far. And there's nothing vague about it. With regard to the highway of Trakiya. Mr. Ivanov, you're a young boy, you don't remember, I don't know how long your political memory is and how short it is. There was a late MP and Deputy Minister of Regional Development "Dimcho Mihalevski" was named, who walked with an ash from "Maritsa East" in the studios. He carried it in some flasks, and even then he warned that the route of the Thracian highway would look like an excited sea. Maybe you don't remember that. Go back and see that ash go to the base of the road. The Roads Agency has repeatedly done expertise. A special machine was brought from abroad to measure in tampery the hardness and wearability of the road bed. It has proven that these areas have been compromised. It's not important to transfer who did this to each other now, but to walk this fellow in the studios with this ash, I guess it wasn't made in his day or after. There's a different argument here. You said: there are state authorities for transparency and for control. That is why we at BSP have informed and alerted the Court of Auditors to include in its programme for next year, because it works planfully and to get to something, as soon as two or three years later, to include in its extraordinary programme for next year an audit of motorways in order to clarify the whole truth about how in the years these 3 billion and 200 that have entered this hub, as my colleague said, I will quote it, this money how, to whom and where they are going. Think that we really are not looking for a private interest with this recommendation. You may know better the companies that cover these requirements because you said there could be a private company, these companies look at them in the orders around the highways how they are tied up and see what happens. The most important thing is quality control. Thus, once we leave a company that absorbs the funds, it controls its quality and is responsible for it, I think that this is not correct and in the future there will be a lot of such examples. I'm just going to remind you of a sad, tragic incident. I'll remind you of the Constantinople Sea, the exit of Sofia, if you remember it, that's what they said. So think about it a little bit and really support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u126	Thank you, Mr. Genov. - What's the line? I can't see. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u127	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! As Mr. Ivanov rightly noted in his speech on the topic, a consistent political position of the Bulgarian Socialist Party is that public projects, work for the benefit of society, cleaning municipalities, creating roads, highways, viaducts and so on is nice to be carried out by state enterprises. We think so because we think that from the taxes of the people, from the taxes of the Bulgarians, from the taxes of Europeans it is not right for someone to earn. We believe that it is better only for the benefit of society, which pays labor, materials and depreciation and nothing more. I said: we don't think anyone should win, much less we think someone should steal. Unfortunately, however, you have managed to corrupt it in recent years with this very loophole in the Public Procurement Act. And as my colleagues said before me: you have made the exception rule, and by this rule you are embezzling enormous funds. Someone's drawers are filling up, coworkers. I'm not saying that to insult you. That is the truth, and you know it very well. The Bulgarian citizens are aware of that too. We're right up against it. Therefore, and related to our idea that the main road construction activity, as we speak at the moment, must be carried out by the state undertaking. That is why we propose that 90% of the activities related to this construction be carried out by the company itself entrusted with this work. We leave 10% for activities which are not profitable to be supported by state-owned enterprises. And that's why we leave it to those 10% to be able to hire an outside service. And I can give you an example, since we're talking about roads. In the construction of roads it is necessary to carry out explosive works, which is specific work and can be hired an external contractor to do this explosive work. But, colleagues, we can't do this with a budget of about 4 billion, as my colleagues have said before me. BGN, with the task of building 250 km of highway "Hemus" to build it and a number of other tasks in maintenance of road infrastructure, viaducts and so on to have 3 rollers, 9 engineers, 41 workers and 20 accountants. It is obvious from the presence of these 20 accountants that the company is rather not building, but accounting and through accounting operations is drained in different ways and the money goes not for construction, but as I said for filling someone's drawers. It's the same with what my colleagues said before me, with Montagues. When there were floods in Mysia and dam problems, we voted here with you 500 million. lv. for the establishment of a state-owned enterprise to build the dams. Further, the Council of Ministers, by decree, gave them an additional 13 million. BGN to finish some walls. What do we have in practice? Not a single built and finished wall so far. It's been three years now. At the same time, nearly 600 million. lv. The money of the Bulgarian taxpayers, no one knows where it is. That's what this company does. At the same time, the municipal companies, because I also mentioned them, to give you an example here in Sofia a municipal company for maintaining cleanliness for Sofia does not have one truck to drive the garbage. What's he doing? He gets money from the municipal budget and by overreaching, by hiring trucks he carries out this activity. It's all about accountants. I can give you many more examples. What do all these examples have in common, which my fellow Members have in mind? The common thing between them all is that they have boards of directors of three and five people, i.e. party feeders, where they are loyal to the party to receive money, without doing anything and without knowing the work for which they are appointed. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u128	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov. Finish your thought.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u129	And accountants to account for their work. That is the truth, and that is why we ask you to support our proposal so that these companies can really enter into their commitments. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u130	Are there any lines? I can't see. Statements? Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Colleagues on the left, I don't know what self-esteem you're coming up with, and yet again you're trying to undermine the government's efforts in recent years to develop such an essential part of our socio-economic life, namely the development of our road infrastructure. Colleague Ivanov mentioned a few years ago, when you were in charge, left a highway "Lyulin" - I remember very well - several times you found a first hole, left a big lump of dirt and that was it. The memory of how, you see, during communism, how much was being built. Yes, Todor Zhivkov made a highway to Botevgrad. And I remember as a child and as a student then how I traveled to Burgas 7.. 8 hours. And from Chirpan after you left, there was traffic jams. And I don't see the self-esteem you're going out with and talking about how you could do better. To tell you the truth, I don't believe you! And I don't believe you, not because we're just opponents, but because we remember very well what you left behind. In my opinion, the problem is that you are very angry that in 10 years Bulgaria from a backward country in this regard is starting to look like a relatively well developed European country. Because when you leave Sofia to Burgas, you get there in three hours, not seven or eight hours. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Because when you take the maritsa highway...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u132	Colleagues, may I ask for silence on the left?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u133	...to Istanbul for five hours. And you didn't do that. You didn't do it, and you're very angry. People see that and appreciate it. I'm convinced of that thing. As far as highways are concerned, I can give you other examples, but I don't want to, I don't need to. As far as your proposal is concerned, colleagues, if you at least bother to see how it is in other countries, which we usually quote and look for an example from them, you will find that many of them have similar state-owned companies. And it is often awarded precisely such large infrastructure sites, and it is of national importance that way. I will give you an example to convince you: even the tunnel under Montblanc is just like this made by a French company, a French state-owned company, a 100% state-owned company that builds this tunnel. And I think every one of us who's been able to get past it can see what kind of facility it's about. What are they really doing? They make two major infrastructure objects of vital importance that have to happen long before the years back. We're talking economics, business, income. We love it when there is a budget here only: give, give money to give. In order to give money, there must be economics, there must be business. So how are you going to go out in front of the people who live in the north of Bulgaria and tell them how we will increase their income without having a good infrastructure, whether it be highways or railway infrastructure, is any other infrastructure that can generate business and economics. What are they doing? They make the main two such objects. It's Vidin, Montana, Vratsa, one highway. And the other one is the Highway Hemus. And the government's commitment is to complete the highway by 2024. Of course, in this way, which is legal, because you are not correct in speaking, against the State and the Automagistries do exactly as it is commissioned and regulated in the Law. Incorrectly, you say that money has been distributed illegally to the Automation Centres, which is not true. In fact, it is a 100% state-owned state-owned company that implements these two very serious infrastructure sites, which should happen within a very short period of time if we want to make Northern Bulgaria look really like the southern part. Because one of the reasons why it's not so developed is because there's no good infrastructure. As to whether it is inhaus or not, fellow Members, these are your proposals. You wanted to do this thing when you ruled for the year and a half when you had the chance. That's no different. Check in other countries in what way it is. Each country always has such companies, whether they are 100% State participation or in any other form, but the state has control over such companies precisely for this reason, so that they can be entrusted with such serious national sites. For everything else, I agree that there must be public procurement and they are implemented both in terms of the maintenance of Republican infrastructure and for everything else. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Therefore, colleagues, do not, because on this particular subject you do not have much right to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u134	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. - What's the line? Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Nenkov, you said you didn't believe us that we were jealous of you. You must be jealous of both your partners and our partners of Bulgaria and across the ocean. Perhaps you are also jealous of the European Union, the European Commission, in which all reports say that corruption in Bulgaria has apocalyptic dimensions threatening state size. Both across the ocean and in Europe they say so! They must be jealous of you in some way. You must also be jealous of the Bulgarian Industrial Association, which I just quoted here about corruption schemes precisely for the construction of highways on your highways. Perhaps you are also jealous of all Bulgarian people who invent anecdotes about your highways and how to steal from them. This is the practice in Bulgaria and you know it very well. And that is why you do not want to accept this proposal of ours, because it will stop and break this vicious corruption chain, and to you this, as is said in non-literary Bulgarian language, does not weidis you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u136	Thank you. Mr. Genov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u137	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Nenkov, for me you broke the counter. Ten years you've managed, ten years you've been handing out these orders. Yes, our idea was wonderful, we supported this thing, but when an idea and an exception from the Law becomes a door in the field, measures need to be taken and when this article is corrupted and this way of awarding, I think that we should, as legislators and as responsible to Bulgarian citizens, put legislative mechanisms to the extent that it does not allow abuse and generation of corruption. Let's not make fun of the memory of the victims who died in heavy road accidents when this happened because of the road traffic. We have such examples, I don't want to quote them now and remember it. In the end, let the Court of Auditors carry out its audit and see how legitimate the activity of the........................................................................................................................ is the case?.......................................................................................................................... Is my time running out?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u138	You didn't run out of time, but it was unpleasant.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u139	Yeah, that's why I saved a lot of examples and said it when I finished it. That must be the result. The check that the Court of Auditors did, and indeed, if it does it correctly and by the rules, there will be a truth, because a moment ago you claimed that everything is legal and the whole Bulgarian public is under the impression that there are illegal things and that corruption is generated there.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u140	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Third line, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u141	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Nenkov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Because in several of the speeches here, the issue of whether there is a political memory will not go back, but I would like to remind you that this proposal does not only concern the road construction sector, but generally the inhouse in Bulgaria. I remember in 2014 the Oresharski government, when many of the ministers then wanted and insisted that this inhaus be a mass practice in their portfolios. However, I also remember a colleague who was a minister at that time and went to Brussels every month to report in writing to Brussels on his public procurement in the area he managed and in which there were nonstop violations and violations and violations and stopped all projects. But there is another thing here that I would like to draw attention to the introduction of Inhouse itself was at the request of a number of governments, including BSP, for the simple reason that they are the principals of many, many companies. For example, the Minister of Economy is the principal of over 2,000 enterprises. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And always the opposition, whoever it is, the first question to the minister is: how do you maintain these businesses, why don't the budget funds go to the enterprises that are from the minister's area? So I'm just amazed at times of abuse. And I would like to point out to you that the proposal that concerns is not just about construction. They want to end the whole practice of Inhouse, which concerns not only construction, it also concerns social services, it also concerns healthcare, it also concerns many, many other sectors, and many jobs that want to be taken away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u142	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. A hole, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u143	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! And when there's public procurement, there's no corruption?! Is that what you want me to explain?! [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] No, not that there's no abuse? Of course there is! There must be! But it doesn't in any way cancel the idea of the Inhouse award. On the contrary, there are investigative bodies and these authorities are the ones who need to determine whether there is corruption, whether there is no, is there no abuse or not? There's no way to fight in the chest and say that everything is wonderful everywhere. There aren't any! But I actually understand where the big problem is, where the dog is buried, as they say. Mr. Popov in his line said: "Your highways." That's the big problem. They're not ours, we didn't say they were our highways, they're highways and infrastructure sites, whether they're railways, whether they're highways, they're for the people, they're for the business to be able to develop, to have more jobs, to have higher incomes. And not here hypocritically, when the time came, as I mentioned earlier, about the budget, some billions that we don't have, that we don't have, that we give them away without having bothered to make the necessary conditions for this revenue to come. That's the truth and nothing else! And as long as you think it's ours or your highways, that's why I'm telling you you're angry, that's exactly why. You don't think these are ours, but people appreciate it, people appreciate it. We, and I am convinced of this thing, should simply not at this rate, at an even higher, faster pace to make Northern Bulgaria a good place for business and economics to have such a development that it deserves. Everything else is a big hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u144	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the Law. Vote 104 MPs: for 103, there is no abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs. Vote 108 MPs: 36, against 62, abstention 10. The offer is not accepted. Colleagues, I'm calling a 30-minute recess. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u145	Mrs. Ilieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u146	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 28, para. 2 is finally a comma and is added which is issued in accordance with art. 22, para. The following points are inserted after point 9 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 36, para. 1 the following additions are 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 is added at the end. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 6 Finally, the supposed agreements are added. 3. A t is created. 17: Seventeen. the information relating to market consultations carried out. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8, in which the word "deleted' is replaced by "repaired'. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 39a The following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In para. 1 the word "Accommodation" is replaced by "Accession" after the words "Qualification system" is added as well as when conducting project contests and the words "Accomplish with electronic means by using "supplied" are replaced by "supplied." 2. Allinei 2 and 3 are canceled. 3. A new para is being created. 4, 5 and 6: s (4) suppliers and business operators shall use the platform in: 1. preparation of decisions, notices, notices for collection of tenders and invitations to certain persons; 2. publication of the documents under art. 36, para. 1; 3. sending invitations; 4. request and provide clarification; 5. submission of applications for participation, offers and competition projects; 6. service of the decisions of the contracting entities in the cases laid down in the law; 7. exchange of information and documents in connection with consideration of applications for participation, offers and competition projects. (5) Contracting entities and business entities may use the platform under para. 1 and when planning, selection of candidates or participants, evaluation of tenders, conclusion of the contract, preparation and submission of applications under contracts, submission and acceptance of electronic invoices, preparation and sending of electronic complaints and, in other cases, according to the possibilities it provides. (6) Central purchasing bodies may use electronic award platforms other than the platform under para. 1, provided that they meet the requirements of para. 7 and provide the possibility of carrying out the actions under para. 4 necessary for the award of contracts through these platforms. The central purchasing bodies shall publish through the platform under para. 1 the decisions referred to in art. 22, para. 1, t. 1 and 2, as well as the notices referred to in Article 2. Art. 35 and art. 36, para. 1, t. 3 and 6, before they were published on their platforms. 4. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 7. 5. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 8 and in it after the words.................................................................................................. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the 6. Previously on AMC's... 6 and 7 become respectively. 9 and 10. 7. So far, the Al. 8 becomes para. 11 And in it the words are said. 6 and 7' are replaced by "al'. 9 and 10. 8. So far, the Al. 9 becomes para. 12. 9. So far, the Al. 10 becomes para. 13 and it in the text before t. 1 words "al." The following points are inserted after point 9 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011: 12. 10. So far, the Al. 11 becomes para. 14. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10. The Commission proposes to create a new § 11: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 56 the following amendments and additions are made: "1." In para. 2 the word "reviews" is replaced by "reviews" and after the word "sizes" is added. 2. Allinea 3 is canceled. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11, which shall become § 12: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 57 the following amendments and additions are made: "1." In para. 1 shall be added at the end when in the cases referred to in Article 1. 56, para. 2 considered that the measures taken were not sufficient to ensure the reliability of the applicant or participant. 2. A new para is being created. 5. . (5) The business entity shall be excluded from the list under para. 4 after the expiry of the period to which the exclusion warrant applies. 3. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 6................................................ The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12, which shall become § 13. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13, which shall become § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 70, para. 6 sentence 3 is amended as follows: "When the valuation indicator is related to a period, including for guarantee support, the contracting authority shall set minimum and/or maximum limits, taking into account the time required for the execution of the contract, in accordance with its complexity and requirements of the applicable regulatory acts.' The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 15.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u147	Are there any statements referred to in paragraphs 1 to 15 included? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 1 to 3 by importer; § 4 by version of the Commission; paragraphs 5 and 6 by importer; paragraphs 7, 8 and 9 by version of the Commission; § 10 by importer; new § 11 by proposal of the Commission; and paragraphs 11 to 14, and § 11 by new numbering, by version of the Commission; § 12 becomes § 13 by importer; and § 13 becomes § 14, and § 14 becomes § 15, respectively, edited by the Commission. Vote 88 MPs: for 74, against none, abstention 14. Paragraphs 1 to 14 by importer which becomes § 15 by the new numbering have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u148	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15, which shall become § 16, in the text prior to that. 1 after the word 2 the words "synthesis" shall be replaced by the text before that. 1.................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16, which shall become § 17. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 17, which shall become § 18: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 114, in a sentence first after the word "interest" a comma shall be placed and added to the procedures under Art. 114, first after the word "interest" shall be added. 18, para. 1, t. In the opening decision, the Commission expressed doubts as to whether the aid was compatible with the internal market in accordance with Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 18, which shall become § 19: "Seriously, I'm In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 116, para. 5 the following amendments shall be made: "1." Text before t. 1 is amended as follows: s (5) Amendment of a contract or a framework agreement shall be considered essential within the meaning of para. 1, t. 7 where it substantially changes the nature of the contract or framework agreement initially concluded, including where one or more of the following conditions are met: 2. point 2 is amended as follows: "2." the amendment changes the economic balance of the contract or framework agreement in favour of the contractor in a way that was not provided for in the original contract or framework agreement. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19, which shall become § 20. The Commission does not support the wording of the importer for § 20 and proposes to reject it. The Commission does not support the wording of the importer for § 21 and proposes to reject it. The Commission proposes to create a new § 21: .................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 142 the following amendments and additions are made: "1." A new para is being created. 4 and para. 5 and 6: s (4) The time limit for receiving tenders may be determined by agreement between the contracting authority and the persons entered in the qualification system, providing all persons with the same time limit for the preparation and submission of tenders. (5) When no agreement is reached under para. 4, the time limit shall be fixed by the contracting entity. (6) In the cases under para. The time limit for receiving tenders shall not be less than 10 days from the date on which the invitation to tender was sent. 2. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 7. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 23: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 155, para. 1 is created a new t. 2: "2." 30 days after the conclusion of a contract on the basis of art. 149, para. 1, t. 13. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 24. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 25. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 26: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 187 the following amendments and additions are made: "1." A new para is being created. 2: (2) In the advert under para. 1 The contracting entity may provide for an assessment of the technical and price proposals of the participants before examining the documents of compliance with the selection criteria, provided that the requirements of art. No. 104, para. 3. In such cases, the verification of grounds for exclusion and compliance with the selection criteria shall be carried out in a manner that is not affected by the results of the assessment of technical and price proposals. 2. So far, the Al. 2 becomes a new para. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u149	I shall open the deliberations referred to in paragraphs 15 to 26 by importer. Are there any speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote § 15, which shall become § 16 as amended by the Commission; § 16, which shall become § 17 by importer; § 17, which shall become § 18 by the version of the Commission; § 18 shall become § 19 by the version of the Commission; § 19, which shall become § 20 by importer; the rejection of § 20 by importer; the rejection of § 21; the creation of a new § 21 edited by the Commission; § 22 by importer; § 23 by the version of the Commission; § 24 and § 25 by importer; and § 26 by the version which you have just heard. Vote 95 MPs: 77, against none, abstention 18. The read-out paragraphs 15 to 26 have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u150	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 27. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 28. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 29. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 30: 30. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 199 the following amendments and additions are made: "1." In para. 3: (a) point 1 is repealed; (b) c. 4 a comma is finally placed and added when it is not sent through the platform under art. 39a, para. 1.................................................................................. 2. In para. 4 words. 1... 3.............................................................................................. 2.3 The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 31, and the figure The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 32: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 202 the following amendments and additions are made: "1." So far, text becomes para. 1. 2. The creation of para. 2: (2) The decision or the action by which the infringement is resolved shall be subject to appeal under this Chapter and the contracting authority shall not take advantage of the possibility under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 33. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 34. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 35: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 229 the following amendments and additions are made: "1." In para. 1: (a) c. 23, paragraph.................................................................................................... 13, para. 1, t. 13 point (b) and the comma in front of them shall be replaced by the following: Art. 13 (b) 15, para. 1, t. 1, 2, 5 and 6 (b) c. 24 the words "Definitions of pre-execution under art. 205, para. 3 and related decisions under art. 215, para. 5 of the Commission for the Protection of Competition and Competition shall be replaced by the decisions imposing a sanction under art. 215, para. 5. (c) c. 26 words. Each Member State shall ensure that the following conditions are met: 2. In para. A sentence 2 shall be created: The information shall be sent within the time limit and in the manner defined by the Executive Director of the Public Procurement Agency. 3. Paragraph 5 is amended as follows: By 31 January, the Commission for Protection of Competition shall send to the Public Procurement Agency the decisions entered into force under para. 1, t. 24 in the previous year. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 36: ................................ 36.................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 230 the following amendments shall be made: "1." In para. 1 t. 1 "5" is cancelled. 2. In para. 2 The words provide the information under para. 1, t. 2? 5? are replaced by?? provide proof of compliance with the requirements of art. 15, para. 1, t. Five and six. 3. Allinea 5 is canceled. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 37. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 38.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u151	I open the debate on paragraphs 27 to 38 inclusive. Statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the text of paragraphs 27, 28 and 29 by importer; the wording of paragraphs 30, 31, 32 by Commission version; the wording of Paragraph 33 and 34 by importer; paragraphs 35 and 36 by Commission version; and paragraphs 37 and 38 by importer. They voted 99 MPs: 79, none, abstention 20. Paragraphs 27 to 38 have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u152	Proposal of MP Krum Zarkov and group of MPs: screated § 38a: "Sixteen" and "sixteen" and "sixteen" and "sixteen" and "sixteen" and "sixteen" and "sixteen" and "sixteen" and "sixteen" and "sixteen" and "sixteen" and "sixteen" and "sixteen" and "sixteen" and "sixteen." In the additional provisions of § 2, t. 43 the words "Medical establishment of a commercial company whose capital is at least two thirds of private ownership, financed by more than 50 percent by state, regional or local authorities or other public bodies; or is subject to management control by those authorities; or has an administrative, management or supervisory body, most of the members of whom are appointed by state, regional or local authorities or other public bodies, and which has an industrial or commercial character, although meeting needs of general interest, is not a public-law organisations within the meaning of and for the purposes of the Public Procurement Act and the point after them are kept. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u153	I open the debates on new proposals § 38a by MP Krum Zarkov and a group of MPs. Here you are, Mr. Mihailov, for your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u154	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In order to explain to all of you the meaning of our proposal, I must remind you of an extremely unpleasant fact since the beginning of the year. Then, during a meeting of the Health Commission, the then governor of the National Health Insurance Fund announced data that were detected during the control of the Casa that certain medical institutions purchased and provided for payment to the National Health Insurance Fund medicines at prices which on average exceeded between 700 and 80% the majority of the contracts that were concluded in the country. Then this caused an extremely serious response. Our parliamentary group has issued a declaration on this occasion. The then Minister of Health promised and had such a proposal, which was discussed in the Council of Ministers. It was reported to the Prime Minister that these medical establishments would actually be based on a real law-making system placed under equal conditions to all others and that they would carry out public procurements for medicines and for all other activities carried out within the framework of their official relations with the contractors of different types of contracts. In just eight months, this proposal has been lost somewhere in the corridors of power, and we are now being offered a text that, in practice, enables the same hospitals not to perform public procurement again. That is, something is being done that is absolutely wrong, which is absolutely wrong, which puts the majority of health institutions in a disadvantaged position compared to those who can afford it, and, of course, the health consequences are not favourable. I don't want to go into a definition because we're discussing a specific point in a specific law right now. I would just like to share with all of you, who, I hope, are closely monitoring this PID now, that there is a European Union procedure in this particular direction towards the Republic of Bulgaria. I cannot explain, only a month ago here we discussed a similar bill in which medical institutions were defined as public institutions. Then explain with pathos how certain medical institutions, their managers must be elected by the Agency for Public Enterprises, see, which has nothing to do with healthcare! Now back in this work, I don't know what to call it, it's not law, it's some self-government for me, it comes back to the situation to quietly cancel, to cancel the need for all medical institutions, we're talking about the rights of medical institutions before the law that they have to be absolutely equal. This is now being bypassed again. At the end of my speech, I would like to tell you that with this legislation in the field of health, which we are implementing under the pressure of the ruling coalition in the last four years, we will never get quality health care. The problems are seen right now in the health system, they are seen by the whole nation and with similar types of changes in health care, which are in the interests of certain people, of certain circles, I would say, we are in no way facing the needs of the Bulgarian nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u155	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Bojankov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u156	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! A very similar debate with the one on the proposal for the Automagestrolls. Where again state resources, without orders, without competition, is drained. Paradoxically, but evidenced by documents is that it is about hundreds of percent, of times higher prices. And here perhaps the most disturbing thing is that during a health crisis, at a time when we expect a budget with a deficit, at a time when the state increases its debt, the same state and the same rulers do not see any problem And this is mentioned in the transcripts of the Council of Ministers, where the opinion of private hospitals is discussed. They, of course, like this method of work, have properly started this procedure and this needs to change. Miraculously along the route from the Council of Ministers to the National Assembly this text disappeared. This is an extremely disturbing, public scandal, becoming the subject of numerous media publications. My fellow Members and I are currently trying to correct this situation by giving you the exact same solution. And if we follow the logic of the Council of Ministers, you should accept it. The opposite means that you do not mind the funds of the Bulgarian citizens being drained during a crisis, and the worst for you is that you will have no argument from now on when you talk about the management of the Kovid crisis and the consequences of it, to express any opinion in support of the Bulgarian citizens if you do not now defend their interest. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u157	- What's the line? Please be quiet in the hall. Stop the altercations in the hall! There are no lines. Are there any other speeches on the proposed new paragraph? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Krum Zarkov and a group of MPs for the creation of a new § 38a, not supported by the Commission. They voted 99 MPs: 26, against 52, abstention 21. The proposal for a new paragraph has not been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u158	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 39. "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 40, in which the words "Paragraph 14" are replaced by "Paragraph 15." The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 41, and in it the words "Paragraph 18" are replaced by "Paragraph 19." The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 42: .............................................................................. Framework agreements concluded by sectoral contracting entities under the repealed Public Procurement Act (not yet published in the Official Journal of the European Union), No. ...) shall remain in operation until 30 June 2021 The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 43: ..................................................... The control of random choice under art. 232 of the draft documents entered into the Public Procurement Agency until the entry into force of this law shall be carried out in the current order with the participation of external experts. The Commission does not support the text of the importer for § 44 and proposes to reject it. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 45, which shall become § 44, and in it the words which it has issued under its application The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 46, which shall become § 45: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The law shall enter into force as from 1 January 2021, with the exception of § 9, paragraph 1. 3 concerning Art. 39a, para. 6, which shall enter into force from 1 January 2023
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u159	Thank you, Mrs. Ilieva. I shall open the deliberations referred to in paragraph 39 to 46 by importer, as well as by the name of the section "Transitional and final provisions'. You have the floor to speak. There aren't any. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote § 35 by importer, the name of the section "Transitional and final provisions', from § 40 to § 43 by the version of the Commission, the rejection of § 44 and the wording of § 45 by the version of the Commission, which shall become § 44, and the wording of § 46 again by the wording of the Commission, which shall become § 45. 100 MPs voted: 84, none, abstention 16. The read paragraphs proposed for voting have been adopted. This is also the end of the Public Procurement Act. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE LEGAL PERSONS WITH A UNSTAPANIC ADVANTAGE. Mrs. Ilieva, come in from the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u160	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! In addition, the Council of Ministers adopted the Law on the Law on the Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Non-Profit Legal Entities, No 002-01-51, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 October 2020, adopted on the first vote on 26 November 2020. The second vote. The Act amending the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Non-Profit Legal Entities. In principle, the Commission supports the text of the importer and proposes the following version of the name of the law: The Law for amendment of the Law on Non-Profit Legal Entities (promise, SG No. ...).................................................... The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of paragraph only: I'm the only one. In § 25, para. 1 of the transitional and final provisions of the Law amending the Law on Non-Profit Legal Entities the words....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u161	I open the debates on the name of the Law and on the only paragraph in it. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the name of the bill, as well as a single paragraph in the version of the Commission. 99 MPs voted: 95, none, abstention 4. The bill has been adopted and the name is the only paragraph. Moving on to the next bill from yesterday's program: FIRST VOICE OF LAWPROLECTING THE LAW FOR NOTARIANS AND NOTARial ACTION, No 002-01-55. Member of the Council of Ministers on 26 October 2020. The first reading. From the Committee on Legal Affairs, Mrs. Alexandrova, you are welcome to report the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u162	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a bill supplementing the Law on Notary and Notary Activities, No 002-01-55, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 October 2020. At its meeting on 2 December 2020, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a bill supplementing the Law on Notary and Notary Activities, No 002-01-55, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 October 2020. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Justice: Mr. Evgeni Stoyanov The bill was presented by Mr. Stoyanov, who pointed out that it aims to waive the requirement to provide a certificate of acquired legal capacity in the conduct of contests for notaries and private court contractors, respectively, when conducting the procedure for the entry of assistant notaries and an examination for assistant-private court contractors. Mr. Stoyanov noted that the Law on Notary and Notary Activities and the Law on Private Judicial Contractors provides for the requirement to provide a certificate of acquired legal capacity under the Law on the Judiciary. He added that the Ministry of Justice maintained an Electronic Register of Legal Certificates issued from 1 March 2011 and provided official access to this information. Mr. Stoyanov pointed out that the adoption of the Bill will reduce the administrative burden for citizens, with the provision of a certificate of acquired legal capacity in paper form only required when the certificate was issued before 1 March 2011. The discussion was attended by the MPs Alexander Ivanov, Smilyana Nieva and Christian Vigenin. Mr. Ivanov pointed out that the political party GERB parliamentary group will support the Bill as it will reduce the administrative burden for citizens. Ms. Nivva expressed her support for the bill. To Mr. Vigenin's question Mr. Stoyanov answered that there is currently no practical possibility to remove the requirement to provide a certificate of acquired paper-based legal capacity for certificates issued before 1 March 2011. Following the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs unanimously adopted with 18 votes for abstention and non-restraint proposed to the National Assembly that a Draft for Supplement to the Notary and Notary Activity Act, No 002-01-55, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 October 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u163	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. I'm opening the debate on the bill. Is there anyone who would like to speak? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Notary and Notary Activities, No 002-01-55, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 October 2020. 90 MPs voted: 88, none, abstention 2. The bill was passed at first reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u164	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u165	Mrs. Alexandrova, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u166	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since no proposals were made between first and second readings, I propose, and given this on the basis of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, the bill shall be subject to a second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u167	I put to the vote the procedural proposal to adopt a second reading of the Bill on Notary and Notary Activities. Vote 94 MPs: for 93, against no, abstention 1. The procedural proposal has been accepted. Mrs. Alexandrova, report for second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u168	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Act for Supplement to the Law on Notary and Notary Activities (prom., SG No. ...................................................................... ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 11, para. 2 after the words the Law on the Judicial Tribunal is added if the Law of Acquired was issued before 1 March 2011 and a comma is placed. Final provisions § 2. In the Law on Private Judicial Contractors (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 7, para. 2 after the word "governance', the title shall be added if the certificate of acquired legal capacity was issued before 1 March 2011 and a comma shall be placed. § 3. The Minister of Justice shall introduce regulations on the application of the Law on Private Judicial Contractors in accordance with that law within 3 months of its entry into force.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u169	Thank you. I open the debates on the name of the bill; on the name of the section, as well as paragraphs 1 to 3 inclusive. Are there any speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the name of the bill; the text of § 1 by importer; the name of the section They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. The bill was passed in a second vote. We move on to the next point, namely: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR RAIL TRANSPORT. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 2 November 2020. From the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, please come in, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u170	Thank you. If I may, a procedure for admission to the Chamber on the grounds of art. 49, para. 2, please allow Mr. Veliko Zanchev to be admitted to the Deputy Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u171	Can you repeat that I couldn't figure out exactly what the guy's name was?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u172	Great Zanchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u173	Zanchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u174	Zanchev!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u175	Yes, thank you. Put your mask on! Please, put your mask on! [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I'm not deaf, I heard! I've been told! A procedural proposal for admission in the hall of Mr. Veliko Zanchev. Vote 84 MPs: for 83, against no, abstention 1. The motion for admission to the Chamber has been accepted. Please, Mr. Great Zanchev, order him to take the chair appointed by the Quaestors. Here you are with the Commission Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u176	Thank you. ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Railway Transport Act No 002-01-63 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 November 2020. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 18 November 2020, a draft amending and supplementing the Rail Transport Act was discussed, No 002-01-63, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 November 2020. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Krasimira Stoyanova, Director of the Legal Department at the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, and Mrs. Vesela Daneva, Director of the Department of State Aid and Real Sector at the Ministry of Finance. The draft amending and supplementing the Rail Transport Act was presented to the members of the Commission by Mrs Stoyanova, who stated that part of the proposed amendments to the Railway Transport Act were related to the postponement of the application of certain provisions of Regulation (EC) No 1371/2007 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2007 on the rights and obligations of passengers using rail transport. The reasons for the bill are that the application of separate provisions of the Regulation, after their entry into force, would make it difficult for railway carriers or railway infrastructure manager in certain Member States. Therefore, on the basis of art. 2, § 4 of Regulation (EC) No 1371/2007 Member States may allow, on a transparent and non-discriminatory basis, temporary exemptions from the application of the provisions of the Regulation to internal rail services for a maximum period of 5 years, which may be renewed twice, for no more than 5 years each time. The bill shall propose a postponement for another 5 years, with effect from 4 December 2019, of the application of art. 8 paragraphs 2 and 3, Articles 13, 15.. 18, 21, § 1 of Regulation (EC) No 1371/2007. Greece, Ireland, Lithuania, Slovakia, Hungary and Romania have also benefited from the delay of certain provisions of the Regulation. Another part of the proposed amendments to the Railway Transport Act are related to the clarification of cases where the licence for carrying out the carriage of passengers and/or cargo is reviewed and the possibility of suspending the operation of the rail licence is introduced. The provisions of the Law relating to the application of administrative criminal proceedings to infringements relating to traffic safety and traffic security, including the introduction of the preliminary implementation of the administrative act issued by the Executive Director of the Railway Administration Executive Agency, shall also be reviewed. The provisions of the Rail Transport Act concerning the independence of the National Board for the investigation of accidents in air, water and rail transport as well as the vehicle requirements before being used on the rail network and the persons responsible for maintaining them are amended and supplemented when these functions are carried out by a railway undertaking or railway infrastructure manager. The Transitional and Final Provisions propose amendments and additions to the Public Enterprises Act. The provisions of the Law on the possibility of certain categories of persons having the right to participate in the management and control bodies of public undertakings, allowing members of the management and control bodies to be also the chief Secretaries of the National Assembly, the President of the Republic and of the Council of Ministers, the chief and administrative Secretaries of the executive administration, the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Permanent Secretary of Defence, the Heads of budgetary organisations or other authorised officials acting as bodies for financial management and control of funds from the European Union and others are amended. The removal of § 2, para 2, is also proposed. 4 of the Transitional and Final Provisions. The current provision provides for state-owned enterprises created by special laws on the basis of art. 62, para. 3 of the Commercial Law, which perform mostly public functions and policies, are reorganised into administrative structures in compliance with the current regulations or to be included in the consolidated fiscal programme as required by the Public Finance Act. It was explained by the importers that the proposal to amend the cited texts of the Public Enterprises Act was the result of an analysis carried out within the meaning of Paragraph 2, para. 2 in the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law. On the basis of this, it is established that individual undertakings are primarily engaged in public functions and policies and it is appropriate to maintain their legal organisational form as state undertakings without reorganising themselves into administrative structures or being included in the consolidated fiscal programme. Ms. Stoyanova explained that in the area of transport such state-owned enterprises are the State-owned company Those undertakings perform mainly public functions and policies, which are specified in the relevant laws governing the structure and functions of each of the undertakings, the Civil Aviation Act for the State Enterprise............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The reorganization of these undertakings into administrative structures would in no way improve the operation of the undertaking concerned, but would make it difficult on the contrary. The texts of the Draft Law relating to the postponement for another 5 years of the application of separate provisions of Regulation (EC) No 1371/2007 as well as the proposed amendments to the Public Enterprises Act were also the subject of discussion. During the debates the MPs said Georgi Svilenski and Ivan Valkov. Following the debates held on the Draft Law and the opinions expressed, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications with 11 votes..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u177	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. The next report is the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Railway Transport Act No 002-01-63 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 November 2020. At a regular meeting held on 2 December 2020, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Rail Transport Act, No 002-01-63, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 November 2020. The bill was presented by Mr. Veliko Zanchev Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. The meeting was attended by Mr. Veselin Vassilev Executive Director of the Railway Administration Executive Agency. The importers point out that the Bill provides for several groups of amendments, including changes relating to the postponement of the application of part of the provisions of Regulation (EC) No 1371/2007 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2007 on the rights and obligations of passengers using rail. The reasons state that the Regulation takes into account that railway carriers or railway infrastructure manager in certain Member States may experience difficulties in implementing the provisions of the Regulation in their entirety. In this regard, on the basis of Article 2 (4) of Regulation (EC) No 1371/2007, Member States may allow temporary exemptions on a transparent and non-discriminatory basis from the application of the provisions of the Regulation to internal rail services for a maximum period of 5 years, which may be renewed twice for no more than 5 years each time. The Republic of Bulgaria has taken advantage of the possibility of delaying the application of certain provisions of Regulation (EC) No 1371/2007 on the basis of Article 2 (4) thereof. The second five-year period in which part of the provisions of Regulation (EC) No 1371/2007 were postponed expired on 3 December 2019. In this regard, an analysis of the proposals of the railway carrier "BDZ"...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 139 and 140 of the Rail Transport Act of the railway carrier and infrastructure manager respectively in the event of failure to comply with the relevant provisions of Regulation (EC) No 1371/2007. The importers propose an extension for another 5 years from 4 December 2019 of the postponement of the application of art. Article 8 (2) and (3) 13, 15.. 18, 21 (1) of Regulation (EC) No 1371/2007. The Transitional and Final Provisions propose amendments and additions to the Public Enterprises Act. The provisions of the Law on the possibility of certain categories of persons having the right to participate in the management and control bodies of public undertakings, allowing members of the management and control bodies to be also the chief Secretaries of the National Assembly, the President of the Republic and of the Council of Ministers, the chief and administrative Secretaries of the executive administration, the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Permanent Secretary of Defence, the Heads of budgetary organisations or other authorised officials acting as bodies for financial management and control of funds from the European Union and others are amended. The removal of § 2, para 2, is also proposed. 4 of the Transitional and Final Provisions. The current provision provides for state-owned enterprises created by special laws on the basis of art. 62, para. 3 of the Commercial Law, which perform mostly public functions and policies, are reorganised into administrative structures in compliance with the current regulations or to be included in the consolidated fiscal programme as required by the Public Finance Act. It is pointed out that the proposal to amend these texts from the Public Enterprises Act was the result of an analysis carried out within the meaning of Paragraph 2, para. 2 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law. On the basis of this, it is established that individual undertakings are primarily engaged in public functions and policies and it is appropriate to maintain their legal organisational form as state undertakings without reorganising themselves into administrative structures or being included in the consolidated fiscal programme. According to the text of the reasons in the field of transport, such state-owned enterprises are the State-owned company "Air Traffic Guide", the State-owned company "Port Infrastructure" and the National Company "Railway Infrastructure." In the subsequent discussion, the President of the Commission Mr. Dragomir Stoynev asked for an explanation from Deputy Minister Zanchev about the reasons requiring re-delaying the implementation of the provisions of the Regulation. Regarding the amendments to the Law on Public Enterprises provided for in the Transitional and Final Provisions, Mr. Stoynev pointed out that these changes aimed at people in senior management positions in the state administration to participate in the management of state companies. The discussion on the topic included the representative Mr. Ivan Ivanov, who also expressed doubts about the objectivity of the procedures. As a result of the three-vote vote held after the discussion, 3 votes against abstentions and 1 vote abstentions, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds suggests that the National Assembly should not adopt a draft amendment and supplement to the Rail Transport Act, No 002-01-63, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 November 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u179	Thank you, Mrs. Vasileva. I'm opening the debate. Mr. Svilensky, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! At your attention is proposed a bill amending the Rail Transport Act, which is one of the laws that we claim this Parliament should not work on. A bill from which, once you accept it in a few minutes, no Bulgarian citizen will be satisfied. This, by the way, is also the opinion, as we have seen, of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, that the Law should not be adopted. You heard him, didn't you?! The Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds for European Affairs is proposed to postpone the regulation for another five years, that is to say, the possible deadline is 10 years. I hope you will listen to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. What's this about? It is about the rights and obligations of Bulgarian citizens. These regulations are therefore European, so we have become a member of the European Union to respect them and to improve the quality of service, to protect the rights of Bulgarian citizens, and in this case we postpone them for another five years. That is, five more years Bulgarian citizens will not be European citizens, five more years will be hanging in the train stations, five more years will not be regular trains, five more years will be riding in broken trains, five more years will probably wait in the winter whether a train will come or not. All of this is thanks to these delays and the lack of willpower in management to change the quality of service, to purchase new rolling stock, to repair what there is to be able to implement European regulations. However, you, colleagues from the Citizens for the European Development of Bulgaria, want to be Citizens to postpone the European development of Bulgaria. Five more years, you tell the Bulgarian citizens, wait. However, honourable Members, in 2024 the contract of the national carrier expires and if we continue to postpone it and you postpone it because we are now at the end of 2020, in 2024 there will be no Bulgarian railway to drive Bulgarian citizens. That's what this is about. On the second issue, which you will decide today, the chief secretaries to take part in the management of public undertakings, state-owned companies. And I wonder who we're helping with this case? Is it to the public undertakings that are trading companies or to the general secretaries? I would agree to support it if this is in favour of businesses if it is in favour of state-owned companies. However, the chief secretaries supposed to the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications are one and the companies are more than five. Which company exactly will this Secretary-General help? The Air Traffic Management Department? The National Company's Railway Infrastructure? On BDZ? How exactly will he choose which company he will be a member of the Board of Directors? Or where the biggest salary is! [[Reply by MP.]] Is that right? That means the Secretary General will have to appear at a contest. By the way, under the Public Enterprises Act, I gave an example in the Commission, I will give it to you as well. The composition of such a committee consists, for example, in this case the Chairman is Mr. Zanchev Deputy Minister, the Director of the Legal Department, the Director of the Directorate of Resources and the Director of the Financial Directorate. I ask: in your opinion, colleagues, will this Secretary-General not win the contest? And if really managers, experts, professionals who have vision have a plan that has an idea for the development of the state company, who will win this contest in which the Secretary-General is a candidate? You're pre-eminent to the winner! What Mr. Borisov did when he came to power and made everyone get their bonuses back, if you remember how many million were then, I no longer remember. Now why are you doing it back? Why, back at the end of the term of office, when the term of office of this government expires, are you returning something that has been denied by you, denied by the Bulgarian citizens, accepted by society? First, you gave them back their right to receive remuneration, now you're giving them back their right to participate. I mean, whatever it was, the same thing will go on, only the bonuses this time won't come back, but they'll stay in the pockets of these secretary generals. It's okay, let people get money, no matter what. But I say again: the purpose of the Public Enterprises Act is effective management by managers, not by party appointments. I'm not going to say the word "kalines," I don't want to, because there are both honest and honest people who deserve to work and carry out this work, but they need to decide whether they want to be chief secretaries or want to be directors. You can't give every trading company one secretary. Because of these motives, and perhaps others, will say that we will not support this bill. We believe that it is extremely inappropriate, neither is it the time now, nor is it the place, nor do we encourage the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Transport to meet their commitments to improve the quality service of Bulgarian citizens. Again I say to you: an example of a law that is harmful and which is not useful for Bulgarian citizens. It has nothing to do with either the Kosovo crisis or improving the status of Bulgarian citizens. My appeal to you, colleagues, is: listen, listen to the opinion of the Committee on European Affairs, for which a European regulation requires this view of this bill, and reject this bill at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u181	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Are there any lines? I don't see anyone who wants to. Mrs. Gancheva, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u182	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! The draft Law amending and supplementing the Railway Transport Act, as it is written in the reasons, includes several groups of amendments. The first group of amendments relate to the postponement of the application of some of the provisions of Regulation 1371/2007 and the obligations of passengers using rail transport concerning them. We are talking about certain commitments of railway undertakings and the infrastructure manager, offering to postpone these obligations by another five years. Member States have a different approach with regard to the postponement of these obligations, along with Bulgaria, Ireland, Lithuania, Poland, Romania and Hungary also postpone the application of these provisions for the second time. In short, we are talking about provisions relating to the following: informing passengers who use rail transport; restoring the value of the ticket when the train is delayed; setting up a certain organisation, both technical and technological, for the use of rail transport by disabled people. We are talking here about two main reasons: one is the Repair Program and the other is the Investment Program. As regards the Repair Programme, it relates to the repair of locomotives and the repair of railway infrastructure, and the Investment is related to the purchase of new rolling stock. These are realities that can't happen within half a year, a year and so on. It requires a slightly larger period of time for which we need to be prepared. The current management of theory and practice does not bear this responsibility, and I think that this proposal of the Council of Ministers is reasonable. And this is precisely in this connection because they are not ready and cannot be ready in this period of time when they need to implement their investment programme and their repair programmes. The second group of changes are related to the clarification of cases where a licence to carry out the carriage of passengers and freight is reviewed. The Council of Ministers proposes amendments relating to the clarification of texts relating to the authority investigating accidents in rail transport. The functions of the railway administration, as we all know, are also regulated in detail to carry out a post-licensing check, and not only at the time of its issue, to suspend irregularities, to give motivated proposals to withdraw the licence or to terminate it. These are briefly the changes that are related to the Railway Transport Act. The Transitional and Final Provisions, together with these amendments, propose amendments and additions to the Law on Public Enterprises, which also have reasons for which I will explain briefly. At present, the Public Enterprises Act divides public undertakings into micro, small, medium and large. In accordance with art. 9 of the Law, the main form of commercial companies with State participation in capital is a public limited company and the legal form of a limited liability company is eligible only for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. In other words, where a State undertaking is defined as large, the only legal form in which it can operate is a public limited liability company. Regardless of whether the entity is large, it may choose a legal organisational form in which it will operate, making it necessary to specify this to be admissible only for subsidiaries. Currently, Holding is a holding structure with two subsidiaries of BDZ, which is a limited liability company and BDZ, which is also a limited liability company. The Holding is currently a company managed by the Board of Directors of three people, with both subsidiaries with limited liability and their management being carried out by two managers. In other words, at the moment the Bulgarian railways as such I mean the carrier, not the infrastructure is managed by five people: three people holding and two managers. The application of the provisions of the Law requires that, as well as the BDZ, travel services and BDZ, freight services are large undertakings within the meaning of the Law, also to be converted into public limited liability companies into a group of five persons, which means that the railway will be headed by 15 people in the future. This would not lead to more added value in the management of these enterprises, as the qualification of those managing them is important, not their number. The application is the main legal form of the subsidiaries to be able to be said: to be, but not necessarily, a limited liability company, which implies a manager as a management body of the subsidiaries. In short, these are the changes that this bill proposes. We from the Political Party GERB will support it. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I ask for a procedure to extend the working time until the vote on this point.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u183	Thank you. Is there a reverse offer? Actually, no, the line has to go by then. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u184	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear colleague Gancheva, I was hoping that you would protect the Bill and not tell what is offered in it, because the House needs arguments as to why it should support it. And you, saying what's being suggested, said why not support it. I will now try to explain within the limits of my rule of law. You say that one of the reasons for delaying the Regulation is the company's Repair Investment Programme, for which the last management is not guilty. However, honourable Members, we are talking 8th year about Repair and Investment Program in this Parliament, and GERB is managing 11. Only four years we have been lying to those working in this company, and you are lying that they will have some 500 million of the concession at Sofia airport. Well, where's the $600 million, and how long are you gonna lie to them that they're gonna go to them? That is, the Repair and Investment Programme is not the fault of Parliament, it is the government's fault. We've given legal whatever we need to have the foundation. The fact that they can't make their orders, the fact that they're interrupted in scandals, they're constantly complaining about being corrupted, so we're not guilty, there's other guilty people, go to them. You say the other reason why it is required: train delays, lack of facilities for disabled people, return of the amounts for a poor service from the tickets. This is why you want to deprive Bulgarian citizens to be able to receive it, these are their rights as European citizens, you send them after another 5 years.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u185	Your time is up!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u186	And lastly, Mr. Chairman, I apologize for this from three to five people. But you passed the Public Enterprises Act, didn't you? I thought the director and the Deputy Minister or the Minister of Transport said the Holding had to close down and become the EAD. They said that a year ago! What happened from this one year that now the Holding won't close and stay with the governors? Thank you. I'm really asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u187	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Are there any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u188	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear Mrs. Gancheva, in the form of a line with the agreement that Mrs. Gancheva presented exactly the ideas of the Bill, but let's say the hidden part, or what we need to discuss. Actually, the law is important. With it and with these changes that are envisaged there, we really need to discuss, understand and draw the approach from here on out, because, on the one hand, we are indeed delaying the provisions of Regulation 1371/2007, on the other hand, there are specific rights and obligations for rail passengers. There is a need for us to discuss when they would find an application not only to vote on them, but also to be implemented because the topic of accessibility and connectivity is a topic that has been up to date for more than 20 years. And today, on this day, these are the rights of the citizens that we have to protect. So I wish this topic would open up and we could really say in the next programming period: yes, rail transport is an alternative, railway transport is an environmental and railway transport is a convenience for all Bulgarian citizens and all European citizens. The investment in it, and we say: it is a top priority mandatory, but this should happen with a clear programme. And last but not least, we will not support the Law for another reason. It became clear to the Commission and to the meeting that, in fact, two ministries contradict each other in terms of the approach for public undertakings. There is no way we can support the Law when the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Transport argued about the approach and are not really united in their position...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u189	Your time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u190	Thank you. ...in the position of what public state enterprises should look like. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u191	Thank you. Is there a third line? I don't see anyone who wants to. Are you going to use a hole? No. Thank you. There is a procedure for extending the time until the agenda item is completed. Does anyone have any desire to make a counteroffer? I won't. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. They voted 93 MPs: 76 against 7, abstention 10. The proposal to extend working hours has been accepted. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u192	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will take into account the proposals in the Transitional and Final Provisions in the Public Enterprises Act. Colleagues from GERB, I feel that this Law on Public Enterprises has become your most, most, favorite law. Over the past five years, BSP has insisted that there should be successive amendments to the Public Enterprises Act so as to make it impossible for party personnel who are not prepared to be appointed in the management of state enterprises. You have stubbornly rejected, as I have said, our proposals for many years. One of the conditions of the European Union to allow us to access ERM II was the adoption of a Law on Public Enterprises. You had nowhere to go. You passed this law. Since then, however, this is the third time you have changed it, and it is in order to adjust it so that, as I said, the right party footage can be arranged. The proposal in the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law, which we are currently considering, is precisely in this direction, the main secretaries of the ministries, i.e. the faithful party staff, to receive another salary, and that is, notice, not a minimum salary, but above the maximum. The rest of Mr. Svilensky explained it before me. Colleagues, not once or twice we have commented with you the low rating of the National Assembly. In a parliamentary republic, the leading institution of parliament, with the lowest rating! Why is that? Today's December 10th is a clear illustration of why this is so. What have we done today for the citizens? You did not allow 270 thousand Bulgarian citizens unjustly taken away their opportunity to vote and to choose their own mayors and it remained that they should be appointed. For those in charge, you rejected our proposals to avoid the possibility without public procurement and to circumvent the laws of...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u193	Mr. Prodanov, to bring you back to the discussion.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u194	I am all about the issue under discussion, Mr. Chairman. What we now accept as the last law, the faithful party staff, the chief secretaries of the ministries, to take another salary. This is the end of the Bulgarian National Assembly today for the citizens zero, for the ruling two. That's the truth. That's why it's going to be like this, and that's why it's the legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u195	Thank you. Are there lines? We continue with the speeches. Mr. Valkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u196	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! I will focus on why we should support the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Railway Transport Act and why, basically, this proposal, which was made by the Ministry of Transport and through the Council of Ministers, has entered this bill, has been postponed by five years of the regulation. The main reason we all know is that both the infrastructure manager and the carrier are short on finances. There is no way to follow these schedules, given that there is currently a serious, large-scale, more than ten years of reconstruction and modernisation of our railway infrastructure, which is currently in the order of about 25 " 26%' reconstructed. In the years to come, we can reach a maximum of 34 years of modernization, provided that we use all the funds under the Operational Programme "Transport and Transport Infrastructure." With the other programme to which Europe is linked, we can reach 40% and only then can we make some accounts and implement the schedules that are currently, as you know, implemented not only by rail rolling stock, but also by road. This is something for which there is no way and how preliminary estimates can be made and they can be carried out, which means that companies cannot financially endure in this situation. Here I heard words that almost Bulgarian citizens are not European citizens. Are the citizens of Poland, Hungary, Romania, Lithuania, Estonia, Greece, Ireland also not European citizens who have postponed the regulation for the second time, as we want to do? Why would they do that? Because they experience the same shortcomings because most of the countries in the Eastern Block cannot be financed in this type of activity. Therefore, even the European legislator has given twice every country which cannot meet these criteria to postpone them. Therefore, I think it is right for these five years to be voted by the National Assembly. Agree that one of the main lines, e.g. the September section, there are only 11 tunnels that are currently being made, and some are not yet being made. That's 41 kilometers of tunnels. How can during these serious renovation activities, which will most likely be carried out for 3 years, the schedules to be respected by the Bulgarian state railways and the railway road by the infrastructure manager, respectively, meet the requirements? Well, they'll just go bankrupt financially or we'll go bankrupt. You want to run the country next year, don't you?! Then I will ask you: how will you return this law and how will you pay the citizens? [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] And I hope it doesn't happen. I therefore believe that this is a true and correct management decision. We do not need to talk about politics only here, and from a technical and technological point of view, I think that the MPs should support this proposal. With regard to the other proposals made in the Transitional and Final Provisions. There has been a serious debate in the Commission regarding the Secretary-General. Obviously, this is a problem which, between first and second reading, will find its correct solution, as all the positive and negative sides of this proposal will be taken into account, because, apart from the chief secretaries, under the legislation, all other administrative posts can carry out this position and, in fact, the highest administrative position, i.e. the Secretary-General can't, but this thing can be carried out by the directors of the directorates. A moment ago Mr. Svilensky gave an example of how such a commission was formed, in which more than half were directorates of directorates. Under current legislation, they are entitled and not entitled to the Secretary-General. So this issue is a discussion, and I believe that the people's representation will find the right answer in this regard. On the proposal for state-owned enterprises in the field of transport, namely the Air Traffic Management, Port Infrastructure and NRIC to remain as state-owned enterprises and remain in their current state-owned and legal situation. I'll tell you why I think this is right. Firstly, because they are formed on a very different principle and there their revenue-distribution part under the Public Enterprises Act must, if they remain as such, enter into the consolidated framework, which means that they will come into conflict with the way the acts they work with are formed. I give an example with the Air Traffic Management Unit, which collects two charges. One is the Aeronautical Service and the other is the Flying Fee. These fees, ladies and gentlemen, are not determined by the Bulgarian or by our legislation, they are determined by the European legislation, by the European Commission. In fact, you should know that the Flying fee is not collected by the R&D, but is collected by the R&D and is then translated into RVD. And a lev of this money, if it does not go to the activity that it performs "Air traffic management" must then be returned to the European Commission. You do realize that's not gonna happen, right? In the same way are things with the National Railway Infrastructure Company, where fees are formed mainly by EU pacts. You know, every fee has to be cost-oriented. It is in the same way for the State-owned enterprise Port Infrastructure, where, under the Law on Maritime Spaces, inland waterways and the ports of the Republic of Bulgaria, the fees must be independent when determined by the State-owned enterprise Port Infrastructure, that is to say, they must be determined, spent and collected under our legislation. From this point of view, I think it is right that this proposal, which has been made with regard to these undertakings staying as state enterprises and not entering the consolidated state framework. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u197	Thank you, dear Mr. Valkov. Are there any lines? Line, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u198	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Maybe I will break the Rules a little bit, because the line should be a disagreement, but I will agree with Mr. Valkov and thank him for saying that the reason for the delay is the carefree ten-year governance of the sector. He said there was no money to buy trains, no money to repair the railway. There's no money to fix! That is to say, honourable Members, when you claim ten years that rail transport is a priority, it has now become clear to everyone that rail transport has never been a priority in those ten years, and perhaps back in time, of the government at the moment. Because not having money to repair, not having money to buy new trains, not preparing the projects and going out to say, "Let's postpone the legislation and regulations" shows complete carelessness to the citizens who have broadcast you to manage them. Many times in the Transport Commission has been said and we have stated a desire to be the priority of the state.. the railways, but a priority, unfortunately, are the places where the drawers are easier to fill.. Highways, roads and other things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u199	Thank you. Mr. Ivanov, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u200	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Valkov, Mr. Svilensky claimed to have agreed with you, but allow me to disagree with you. Mr. Valkov, in your speech you should have started with: what was the heritage 2009 of the Bulgarian State Railways. Seven hundred million, colleagues! Seven hundred million, which the Bulgarian state had to restore to the Bulgarian State Railways. This money is now provided, almost all the money is paid out, and that is why we start with the investment program, Mr. Valkov. This is something extremely important that you should have mentioned at the beginning of your speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u201	Thank you. Another line? I can't see. Mr. Valkov, you have the floor for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u202	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, thank you for your lines. Mr. Ivanov, this is just as you said with a heavy inheritance we took over the government. About 780 million will correct you for the sector, at all for the railway sector. Mr. Svilenski, more or less, but so far they have been used in the order of about 2.4 billion. lv. in repairs, working on modernization of railway infrastructure. I am talking mainly on the railway road, as in terms of rolling stock, as you know, mostly repairs have been carried out and there was only one batch of wagons that were delivered by the previous government. But let us not forget that we have another, how can I say, bequeathed by you, 17 wagons that are still in Hungary, for which the repair has been paid more than two thirds and so on. But we are not here at the moment to take into account what has happened in the past, but how to do so that this sector, which has always suffered from a shortage of funds, not only in the last 10 years, but in principle from the moment of the commitment of a railway carrier and railway infrastructure, has always been a shortage of funds since 2005 to 2007. For this reason, at the moment, after upgrading and reconstructing our lines, God forbid, after 4.5 years, nearly 50% of them meet the European requirements and, as the investment programme is set for 16 new trains and for new wagons, in the next 2.5 years, we will have the opportunity to go on the European market for passenger transport and indeed what we have been talking for so many years to become a fact. Therefore, my appeal to you as MPs is to vote on the amendments presented or the Bill at first reading. And, as I told you, I am ready to discuss any of these changes with regard to what has been done in the Law, and if necessary, changes can be made between first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u203	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u204	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I had no intention of speaking in this debate. But given that so many untruths were told from this tribune about what happened to the Bulgarian railways in the last 10 years, I could not help but take the floor. We can say that it has nothing to do with it and can not be made such a comparison between the service provided by the Bulgarian State Railways to the Bulgarian citizens today, with the one they provided 10 years ago. It's like comparing a model of some West German car brand since 1990 with the one from 2019. It's not a serious comparison. Because the volume of the service that BDZ performed 10 years ago was quite different from the one that is now being provided. In those 10 years we saw several different guides that changed in BDZ. I'll ask you, Mr. Valkov: why did you change this manual that cleared BDZ's debts? BDZ has no debts. Yes, maybe the financial situation is better, but there is no activity! This undertaking lives from the state subsidy and not from the actual activity it carries out. This promise of modernization of the State Railways we listen to from you at least 6 years. How many times have the incidents that have occurred with the rolling stock of the State Railways increased? How many locomotives set themselves on fire? How many times have there been reports and publications in various editions about the quality with which repairs are being carried out or rather the non-reports with which repairs and maintenance of the rolling stock of the State Railways are being carried out? Let's not make such comparisons, let's tell the truth as this enterprise is literally bled out and has nothing to do with what it was 10 years ago! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-10.u205	Thank you, Mr. Danchev. Are there any lines? I won't. Statements? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the bill amending and supplementing the Rail Transport Act, No 002-01-63, submitted by the Council of Ministers. 90 MPs voted: 68, against 20, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Parliamentary control messages for 11 December 2020: 1. Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva will answer 4 questions from the MPs Valeri Zablyanov, Krasimir Yankov, Nikolay Ivanov, Dimitar Stoyanov, Georgi Andreyev, Lalo Kirilov and Chavdar Velinov; Anton Kutev and Zhelyo Boychev; Christian Vigenin; and Anton Kutev and Philip Popov and 2 questions from the MPs Alexander Paunov; and Krasimir Jankov, Georgi Andreev, Dimitar Stoyanov, Lalo Kirilov, Nikolay Ivanov and Chavdar Velinov. 2. Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will respond to 1 question from the MPs Nikolai Ivanov and Vasil Antonov. 3. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova will answer 1 question from the MP Vasil Antonov and 2 questions from the MPs Georgi Svilenski, Manol Genov and Dimitar Danchev; and Pavel Shopov. 4. The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva will answer 1 question from the National Representative Dimitar Danchev. 5. Justice Minister Desislava Ahladova will answer 1 question from the MP Hristo Gazhev. 6. The Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will answer 4 questions from the MPs Donka Simeonova; Veska Nencheva and Donka Simeonova; Anna Slavova and Evdokiya Asenova; and Polina Shishkova and Veska Nencheva. 7. The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov will answer 1 question from the MP Rumen Gechev. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the MNS, delaying responses by seven days have requested: - Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov to 2 questions from the MPs Kristina Sidorova and Violeta Zheleva; and Anastas Popdimitrov and Nona Yotova; and to 4 questions with a written answer from the MPs Georgi Gokov and Georgi Yordanov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova, 1 question from the National Representative Dora Yankova; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva on 4 questions with a written answer from the MPs Dora Yankova 2 questions; and Nadia Klisurska-Zekova 2 questions; - Minister of Culture Boyl Banov to 2 questions from the MPs Polina Shishkova and Anastas Popdimitrov; and Polina Shishkova. For lack of respectable reasons, Members of the National Assembly shall postpone the responses to: - one question from the MP Krum Zarkov to the Minister of Justice Desislava Ahladova; - a question from the MP Dzhevdet Chakarov to the Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov; - a question from the National Representative Dora Yankova to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova. Due to the use of annual leave in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva will not participate. The next regular plenary session on 11 December 2020, according to the adopted Work Programme. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
