ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[Noise.]] Colleagues, please remain silent, because I would like to mark today a very important day. Dear Members of Parliament, today is the 30th anniversary of the Seventh Grand National Assembly. The period of time that has passed may be defined as short or prolonged depending on what archin we measure it with from a historical point of view or with human life, but in any case we have reason to look back to see what path we have gone, where we are going and where we are going. After decades of totalitarianism and suppression of citizens, the withdrawal of their fundamental rights and freedoms with the Seventh Grand National Assembly, parliamentary democracy in Bulgaria has been restored. The task of the Grand National Assembly is clearly formulated by his interim president, Joseph Petrov, who stated at the opening of the solemn meeting in Veliko Tarnovo: "This Grand National Assembly is called by history to pour out the violins of the new Bulgarian state. It is called to work out the basic law of the Constitution, which will be the starting point for the creation of a new, free, independent, democratic and rule of law Bulgarian state. The aim of this Parliament is through the adoption of the Basic Law to impose new public, economic and management democratic norms. Adopted on 12 July 1991, the Constitution guarantees the fundamental rights of citizens and defines the organisation of state power. Thanks to the fourth Bulgarian Constitution the necessary conditions for integration of Bulgaria into Euro-Atlantic structures are created. Our country becomes part of the democratic world, a correct, equal and predictable partner in international relations. Today we can say that the adopted by the Seventh Grand National Assembly Constitution managed to give security to Bulgarian citizens and to ensure democratic progress and development of the country. We continue with the first item of today's agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ACCEPT PROCEEDING PROCEDURAL RULES FOR CONDITIONS AND PROCUREMENT OF CANDIDATES FOR THE COMMISSION'S PRESIDENT OF ENERGY AND WATER REGULATION, PRESENTATION AND PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF DOCUMENTS AND RECOGNITION OF CANDIDATES IN THE COMMISSION'S ENERGY AND WATER REGULATION PROCEDURE Importer (s) of the Energy Commission on 8 July 2020 The Communication from the Court of Auditors by letter No 024-00-2 of 8 July 2020 was submitted to the National Assembly a list of the completed financial audits of the annual financial statements during the period January 2020. 30 June 2020. The material is made available to the Committee on Budget and Finance. Audit reports on financial audits carried out have been published on the Court of Auditors' website. Please, Mr. Nikolov, introduce us to the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on the adoption of Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for Chairman of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Energy Commission and the procedure for election by the National Assembly At its regular meeting held on 8 July 2020, the Energy Commission discussed and voted on the abovementioned Rules of Procedure. As regards the withdrawal of the only candidate for the appointment of the Chair of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, No 052-00-3 of 6 July 2020, and in relation to this. 11 of Section IV, etc. 10 of Section V of the National Assembly's Decision adopting Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for the proposal of President and Members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission discussed and voted on Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for the proposal of candidates for Chairman of the Commission for Energy and Water Regulation, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Energy Commission, as well as the procedure for selection by the National Assembly. After the discussion was concluded and on the basis of the vote held, the Energy Committee with 13 votes for the Council, without the opposition and the abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to examine and adopt the following draft decision: Project! DECISION adopting Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for the Chair of the Commission for Energy and Water Regulation, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Energy and the procedure for election by the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to art. 11, para. 2 of the Energy Act and Article 2 of the Energy Act. 93, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, p. 11 of Section IV, etc. 10 of Section V of the National Assembly Decision adopting the Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for the proposal of a President and members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, outside the elected members pursuant to § 41 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act (inc., SG No. No. 17 of 2015, Dop., No. 48 from 2015), presentation and public disclosure of documents and their hearing in the Energy Committee, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly adopted on 19 June 2020. (DV, No. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No HAS DECIDED It shall adopt Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for the Chair of the Commission for Energy and Water Regulation, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Energy, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly. I. Proposal to the Chair of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission and the submission of documents 1. Proposals for the Chair of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission shall be made by Members of Parliament or by parliamentary groups. The proposals shall be submitted in writing to the Energy Commission through the President of the National Assembly within 5 days of the adoption of these rules. 2. The proposals shall contain written reasons to justify the good professional reputation of the applicant concerned. The proposal shall be accompanied by: (a) written consent of the applicant according to the template of Annex 1 to the decision; (b) Declaration under art. 12, para. 1 of the Energy Act, that the candidate is a decommissioned Bulgarian citizen "Annex No 2 to the Decision; (c) written consent of the applicant under art. 27, para. 2 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and Announcement of Membership of Bulgarian Citizens to State Security and the Intelligence Services of the Bulgarian People's Army according to the model Annex 3 to the Decision; (d) a detailed CV; (e) certified by the applicant a copy of a diploma for completed higher education with an educational-qualification degree of Master. (f) documents certifying that the applicant meets the requirement for professional internship under art. 12, para. 1, t. 2 point (e) in relation to § 1, point (e) 59 or 59a of the Energy Act; 3. The circumstances of art. 12, para. 1, t. 3 of the Energy Act is established by the administration of the National Assembly. II. Public disclosure of documents 1. The proposals together with the documents attached to them shall be published on the specialized thematic site on the website of the National Assembly no later than 5 days before the hearing. 2. The publication of the proposals and documents shall be carried out in compliance with the Personal Data Protection Act. 3. Non-profit legal entities registered for public use activities and professional organisations may submit opinions to the Committee on Energy on the proposed candidates not later than three days before the hearing of the candidates, including questions to be asked. 4. The mass media may send to the Commission on energy issues to the candidates to be assigned to them. 5. Anonymous opinions and alerts shall not be considered. 6. The opinions and questions are sent by mail to the city of Sofia, Knyaz Aleksandar I "No 1, Energy Commission," or by e-mail: komisia_energetika@parliament.bg. The opinions and questions are published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly, subject to the Personal Data Protection Act and the Classified Information Protection Act. III. Perform a preliminary check under the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army 1. Candidates shall be checked for belonging to the bodies referred to in art. 1 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The request for prior verification under art. 27, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army are made by the Chairman of the Energy Commission. 2. The results of the verification shall be published on the specialized thematic site on the website of the National Assembly. IV. Hearing of candidates 1. Before listening to the proposed candidates, the Energy Commission shall verify the documents submitted and whether the candidate concerned meets the requirements of the Chair of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. 2. The hearing of the admitted candidates shall be held in an open meeting of the Energy Committee, which shall be broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. 3. The candidates shall be submitted by the importers of the proposals in alphabetical order of the names of the applicants within two minutes of a candidate. The presentation also includes details of specific preparation, motivation, public reputation and public support for the applicant. 4. Personal presentation of candidates and their concept of the Commission's energy and water regulation activities as a regulatory authority.................................................................................................. 5. The Energy Committee shall hold debates on the proposals made. The Members of the National Assembly shall place their questions separately to the candidates in alphabetical order of the names of the candidates................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Upon completion of the questions asked to each candidate by all Members of the National Assembly, he shall answer within 10 minutes. 6. The President of the Energy Commission shall, in summary, present the opinions and ask the questions of the persons referred to in Article 1. 93, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, to which no reply has been received within two minutes each. 7. The applicant's reply to the submitted opinions and the questions raised within 5 minutes. 8. The Commission may request additional information from both the applicant and the relevant competent authority. 9. A full stenographic protocol is drawn up from the hearing, which is published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly. 10. The Commission shall draw up within the meaning of art. 93, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a report from the hearing to which a list of candidates involved in the hearing is attached, arranged in alphabetical order on their own names and submitted it to the National Assembly. The report shall be accompanied by a draft decision to elect the Chair of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission for each of the candidates. 11. The refusal of a candidate to participate in the hearing or its withdrawal from the importer shall not suspend the procedure with regard to other candidates. V. Election of the Chairman of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission by the National Assembly 1. The sitting is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. The proposed candidates are present at the meeting by decision of the National Assembly. 2. The National Assembly shall hear the report of the Energy Committee. 3. Each candidate shall be represented by the applicant within two minutes. 4. Debate on the nominations under the Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly shall be held. 5. The voting of the candidates shall be individually and clearly through the computerised voting system in alphabetical order of the applicant's own names, unless the National Assembly decides otherwise. 6. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. If several candidates have received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly, the candidate who received the most votes is elected. 7. Where none of the candidates receives the necessary votes, a re-vote shall be held in which the two candidates who have received the most votes for................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 8. If none of the candidates receives the necessary votes in the second vote, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. 9. When a candidate refuses to participate in the election before voting on his candidacy by the National Assembly and he is the only candidate, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new procedure for the election of the Chair of the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory. 10. If there is no candidate for Chairman of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. VI. Obligation to declare incompatibility under art. 35, para. 1, t. 1 and a change in the declared circumstances under art. 35, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on Countering Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property 1. Upon completion of the selection procedure under Section V, the elected President of the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory shall submit a declaration of incompatibility under art. 35, para. 1, t. 1 of the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property in connection with art. 12, para. 2 and 3 of the Energy Act in accordance with Annex 4 to the Decision. 2. In the event of a change in the declared circumstances of the declaration referred to in point (a) of paragraph 1, the customs authorities of the Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the European Union of the other Member States of the European Union of the other Member States of the European Union of the European Union and of the other Member States of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union, of the one part, of the one part, of the other part, of the other part, of the European Union, of the other part, of the European Union, of the other part, of the other part, of the European Union, of the other part, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the one part, of the other part, of the other part, and of the other part, of the Republic of the other The declarations and annexes to the Decision shall follow.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u3	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. My fellow Members, I am opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I will put to the vote the submitted draft decision adopting the Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for the Chair of the Commission for Energy and Water Regulation, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing candidates in the Energy Commission, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly, together with the irrevocable annexes to the decision of one to five. They voted 132 MPs: 132, no opposition and no abstentions. The proposed draft decision has been adopted. Honourable Members, this concludes the legislative part of the sitting. We will continue with parliamentary control at 11:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u4	Honourable Members, we shall continue the sitting with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. I see that there is a desire for a speech from the Parliamentary Group of the United Patriarchs on a matter off the agenda. Mr. Bogdanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u5	Declaration by the Parliamentary Group of the United Patriarchs: Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today, a Turkish court is expected to decide whether the conversion of the former temple of St. Sofia in Istanbul into a museum in 1934 is illegal. This decision opens the way for the re-pronouncement of the Orthodox cathedral in a mosque. Built in the sixth century, during the Emperor of the Eastern Roman Empire, the Justinian Great, known as Byzantium, has been a central temple in the Orthodox world for 900 years. In 1453 the Ottoman Sultan Mehmed II took Constantinople and turned the Byzantine Church into a mosque. In 1934, Turkey's President Mustafa Kemal Ataturk declared the temple a museum. Today the cathedral of St. Sofia is part of UNESCO's world cultural heritage and is one of the most visited monuments in Turkey. It preserved the elements of both periods of its existence as an Orthodox Christian temple during the Byzantine Empire and as a mosque during the Ottoman Empire. Various Turkish groups have long struggled for the conversion of St. Sofia to a mosque, saying it would better reflect Turkey's status as an extremely Muslim country. This cultural heritage, achieved by Ataturk, is about to be liquidated after the association brings a case to a Turkish court, arguing that the St. Sofia is owned by Sultan Mehmed II and it should be a mosque. The concerns of the upcoming decision have already expressed representatives of the authorities in both the Orthodox European countries and the overseas countries. The Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew emphasized that the conversion of the Holy Sophia into a mosque would disappoint Christians and divide the East and West. The patriarch of the Russian Orthodox Church insisted that this would endanger Christianity. US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and the Greek government also urged Turkey to maintain the museum status of the cathedral. The Turkish authorities' official statement was expressed by President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. He reacted extremely strongly to the positions he described as the attack on Turkey's sovereignty. His criticisms against Ataturk about turning the temple into a museum reveal the true aims of the ruling Islamist Justice and Development Party. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Parliamentary Group of........................................ We condemn the re-entry of the largest Orthodox Christian monument of St. Sofia into a mosque. We accept this approach as non-European, drawing dividing lines and creating civilisational faults, reminiscent of the dark times of medieval Crusades and mass Islam. We condemn this approach demonstrated by a state claiming to be accepted as a member of the European Union. We call on the entire cultural community to oppose the defamation of St. Sofia, and the Turkish state to immediately stop this shameful act, another rude demonstration of Erdogan's Islamist claims threatening the security of the Balkans in Europe and the Middle East. [[Applause by the United Patriarchs.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u6	Thank you, Mr. Bogdanov. We're continuing parliamentary control. Written answers for service by: - Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova on a question from the MPs Atanas Kostadinov and Lyubomir Bonev; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Georgi Stoilov; - Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov on a question of the MPs Atanas Kostadinov and Lubomir Bonev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the MPs Atanas Kostadinov and Lyubomir Bonev; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva on two issues from the National Representative Rumen Georgiev; - Minister of Culture Boyl Banov on a question from the MPs Georgi Gokov and Nona Yotova; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Irena Anastasova; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a question from the National Representative Yavor Bojankov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Mariana Nikolova on two issues from the MP Nadia Klisurska-Zekova; - Minister of Economics Emil Karanikolov on a question from the National Representative Violeta Zheleva; - Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov on a question from the National Representative Ivan Ivanov. New questions for the period from 3 to 9 July 2020. There has been a question by the MP Dora Yankova, Desislav Taskov and Kristina Sidorova to Kiril Ananiev about the government's policy to reduce the duties of state and municipal hospitals. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 17 July 2020. The first question is to Mariana Nikolova "Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy," to a question of the National Representative Nadia Klisurska-Zekova on the National Programme for Prevention of Violence and Abuse of Children and the lack of a plan for 2019. Here you are, Mrs. Zhekova, for the presentation of your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u7	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! The number of children victims of violence grows every year. Last year alone, the signals from the Departments of the Child Protection are over 1100. Aggression is not only physical, but is exerting emotional and sexual harassment on children. Unfortunately, at the moment, there has been no declaration by the management of a single basis for registering the cases of children victims of violence. I am now given a written answer that such a pilot system will be introduced in 2021. The ball will be transferred for next year. Unfortunately, the prosecution also has statistics on violence against children. The cases for last year are over 4,000. There is a programme for prevention of violence against children 2017 - 2020. Children are often victims of violence because of their immaturity and inexperience. It is the duty of parents, carers, institutions to ensure respect for their rights, to assist in obtaining protection, which will create a secure and secure environment in which they will develop according to their capabilities and individual needs. Today's reality and surroundings affect the development and well-being of children. Violence is part of our surroundings. The prevention of all forms of violence must be one of the priority areas of the state in child protection policy. This programme sets out challenges related to updating and adapting the national legal framework in the area of child protection, including for children in conflict with the law, in accordance with international regulations, standards and directives in this area. But what is being done so far? Not only children who have suffered violence, but also children who have committed violence must have guaranteed access to support services...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u8	Get to the point now.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u9	...in order to avoid further negative consequences. In this programme there are indicators of implementation, there is also such an adopted plan, which is for the first two years, for 2017. Unfortunately, there is a plan for 2019 - 2020 that has not been adopted on the public consultation portal. I ask my question, Madam Vice Prime Minister: what is the reason why such a plan is missing? This is contrary to the strategic documents for prevention of violence. What measures do you intend to take in this direction?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u10	Thank you. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u11	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Klisurska, on the occasion of your question, I provide the following information: The report on the implementation of the Action Plan for 2018 and the Project for Action Plan for the period 2019 - 2020 to the National Programme for the Prevention of Violence and Abuse of Children 2017 - 2020, after approval by the members of the National Council for Child Protection at a meeting held on 14 February 2019, were published on the Public Consultation Portal for Public Discussion. In view of the many unsubstantiated comments received from various citizens and organizations against the draft National Strategy for the Child, identical to those of the National Programme for Child Protection for 2019, no follow-up action has been taken to submit to the Council of Ministers. Despite the difficulties and challenges in 2019 and this year, a number of actions have been taken towards the prevention of violence. Interested parties are involved in supporting children and their families, including during the country's emergency situation, as part of the measures and activities are as follows: Updating a number of methodological guides and practical guidelines for action that workers in secondary education institutions should take in the event of an incident of violence. Safety rules for children and students in the computer network, in kindergarten, in school and on the Internet. Working on updating practical guidelines for workers in the educational system for supporting the child in separation and conflict situations between parents, as well as a methodological guide to working on children at risk of parental alienation. All documents shall be agreed with the responsible institutions. A section has been created: "Ask here CIVID-19" on the website of the State Agency for Questions on the Children's side and the persons taking care of them, on the topic of the pandemic, to which to receive competent answers from psychologists. The management of the National Telephone Line for Children 116 111 changed. It is now even more effective and is available to all children and their families. Psychologists listen, support, direct callers on all matters that interest them. In case of risk data for a child, immediately contact the child protection authorities for examination and taking measures and actions for protection, and the State Agency shall monitor the measures taken until the risk to the child has been eliminated. Rules have been established for carrying out innovative remote checks to respect the rights of the child by the State Agency for Child Protection during the emergency situation. The rules for the organisation and conduct of crisis intervention with the possibility of remote intervention shall be completed as necessary. On the website of the State Agency for Child Protection are published the coordinates of the Directorate-General for Organized Crime and the Centre for Safe Internet to provide assistance and support to prevent cyber harassment and harmful Internet influence. On the official website of the State Agency are announced rules on the safe conduct of children on the Internet. Work is being done to coordinate and engage responsible institutions with activities and initiatives to prevent and reduce cases of violence against children. It is also working to raise the awareness of children and their families about the means of alerting, the functions and powers of the child protection authorities in order to improve their service and well-being.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Nikolova. Mrs. Zhekova, you're entitled to a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u13	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Deputy Prime Minister, what you have read to me about the actions taken by you and the departments for child protection, I believe they are extremely insufficient because what we have been reading since the last month: children who died in a fire, children who died at sea, children who entered the home of an elderly man and forcibly took money. This is the statistics over the last month for children whose life has been lost or changed forever. Over 2,200 children are victims of crimes. The signs of child abuse received in the Departments of Child Protection are over 1100. Why is this happening, and why are we losing our children, who we say are our future? The simple answer to this question is: because the state systems concerning children and family do not work effectively. You didn't say anything about poverty, Madame Deputy Prime Minister. She is monstrous among the children. She has children who are starving, there are children who are malnourished, every fourth child does not have books, every third child cannot go to sea or elsewhere for at least one week of the year, nor participate in school excursions, 17% of the children can not even celebrate their birthdays. What does this 16-year-old kid mean for the first time in his life to get a gift balloon? Behind the statistics are the fates of children like those who are no longer among us. The totality between them is the inactivity of the state or the lack of adequacy. Her inability to put the topics for children and families in the focus of her work. The results are because the protection departments for the child work people on minimum wage, and this is extremely difficult work. That's a direction to think about. What I would like to mention in conclusion is what is going on with the interdepartmental group, which you declared in July last year -- a year has already passed since then -- and which had to develop a draft law on diversion from criminal proceedings and the imposition of educational measures on minors. Because in this National Program, as you mentioned, which has no plan, there is also work on a bill that is related to children in conflict with the law, and at the moment there is no effective real action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Zhekova. Will you use your right to the back? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u15	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Klisurska, along with what I have said, I would also like to add to the work with the local government that has taken place. Research and analytical activities shall be carried out in order to carry out an objective assessment of the situation. I would like to inform you that in connection with the pandemic of the State Agency for Child Protection, letters have been sent to the mayors of all municipalities in the country, which appeal for increased vigilance towards the mental and physical health of children and with emphasis on the heads of the resident services for children. Letters were also prepared to the mayors of municipalities to share difficulties and challenges, to share good practices, to communicate remotely with their parents, relatives, relatives and other relevant people in terms of overcoming the negative consequences of the maintained social distance. There have been developed and polled about the difficulties caused by social isolation and distance, with surveys sent to 316 social services for children of resident type and specialized institutions. The analysis of the data received indicates that the teams have had difficulties in working with children and have stated the need for psychological support, the provision of technical tools and pedagogical specialists in distance training, more community support, increased funding for social services and others. The results of the study have been informed by the responsible institutions and mayors of municipalities, and subsequently we continue to work on the development of a legislative framework and specialized revision legislation where specific problems have been identified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Nikolova. We are moving on to questions to the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev. The first question will be the MP Georgi Mihailov on the construction of the National Children's Hospital. Here you go, Mr. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I carefully read the transcript of the parliamentary control on 5 July, on which we raised the question of the construction of the National Children's Hospital. Then we received from you the corresponding answer that everyone can see in the transcripts of the National Assembly. My question to you is: how are things right now on this subject, and I will further develop my thesis in the supplementary issues? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u18	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u19	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Mihailov, the construction of the National Multiprofile Children's Hospital is one of the priorities I set myself as Minister of Health. In January 2019 a working group was formed at the Ministry of Health to prepare the structure and plan for the deployment of clinics and wards for the establishment of the hospital. The working group prepared the structure of the National Multiprofile Children's Hospital, which is included as part of the Technical Order. In July 2019 the public contract for the selection of contractor for construction, i.e. design, construction and copyright supervision of the National Multiprofile Children's Hospital was launched in which the above circumstances were collected. In the terms laid down in the Public Procurement Act, the Chamber of Architects in Bulgaria appealed to the Commission for Protection of Competition the decision of the Minister of Health for the opening of the above-mentioned contract. The complaint was left without respect by the KPC as unfounded and the decision of the KPC was confirmed by the Supreme Administrative Court. Three offers were submitted under the contract. By my decision of 17 January 2020, a public procurement contractor was appointed. The decision was appealed to the KPC by the second-placed participant. Following the completion of the appeal procedures provided for in the Law on 2 April 2020, a contract was concluded with the selected contractor................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The selected contractor has indicated in its technical proposal that, in addition to the constructive investigation prepared by the contracting entity, he will carry out further investigations of the existing situation of the construction and based on all the information collected and provided, note Professor Mihaylov will propose the best and most justified constructive solution of the construction, including construction reconstruction activities, strengthening and/or building a new structure with the aim of bringing the same state to the EUROCOD. In the light of the foregoing, we have already expressed a general agreement on the demolition of the existing construction, discussing at present the possibility that this could be done and reflected in the contract with the contractor without changing the financial parameters of the contract. In connection with the commitment made by the Ministry of Health to set up a Public Council to include representatives of civil and professional organisations, the Ministry of Health prepared a draft decision to establish a public advisory board to the Minister of Health, as well as rules on the organisation and activities of the Public Council to provide expert assistance in building the hospital, which were sent to all stakeholders. A meeting will be held next week with the participation of civil and professional organisations to discuss prepared projects. Within the framework of this dialogue, we expect to receive the agreement of the National Citizens' Initiative for a real children's hospital on the structure and organization of the work of the Public Council in order to begin the realization of the work on demolishing the building and building the new hospital. At this stage, the representatives of the Initiative do not support our proposed approach to work and express their vision to start building a new children's hospital from the beginning, namely the termination of the contract with the selected current contractor of the project, the award of a new assignment to start with an international competition for design, finding new terrain and so on. We are currently preparing an analysis of children's healthcare in the country, as well as a presentation of the scope and structure of the new children's hospital, which we will present at the next meeting with the representatives of the Initiative. We trust that we will reach agreement and dialogue to continue the construction of the children's hospital under conditions of complete transparency and control by the Public Council. And I'm graduating. In addition, the Ministry of Health has prepared a draft of documents to be examined by the Council of Ministers and at this stage are in the process of co-ordination for the establishment of a commercial company with the subject of activity. The establishment of a National Children's Hospital, owned by the Ministry of Health. The company will coordinate and monitor the future construction of the medical establishment, thus achieving greater efficiency in the work and control over the implementation of the task.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u20	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Note that the scheduled response time is three minutes. Mr. Mikhailov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I hope that you will also be tolerant to me, as to Minister Ananiev on discussing this extremely important topic for the state. I am very familiar, Minister Ananiev, with what you have shared and with the activities of the National Initiative for a real children's hospital. I think the effort on both sides is serious. They differ for the moment, but I accept their idea, which they shared in a conversation with me that it is possible for such a national site to be established a National Centre for Management of the Site, which will be subject to submission of the Council of Ministers, as it is a strategic direction of Bulgarian healthcare. In this sense, expressing some amazement, although I see that you have a draft decision that this public council has not yet been established, I think that the Public Council should be supportive of the National Management Centre, which should be structured by specialists dealing with similar types of construction. I just want to say that you probably know this as Minister of Health that there is a special management in France that deals with the construction of health establishments, as this is an extremely specific way of building. It requires very thorough knowledge. It requires an actual job to know the needs of healthcare in a particular direction of the country. I therefore call on you, indeed, what you have shared with me here and to all the honourable Members of this House, that this meeting between you not become an arena of conflict, because this Initiative for a new children's hospital has proved its qualities. Her proposal, which was also our proposal, was finally accepted not to use this old structure, which contains a number of problems for which I do not want to concern the honourable Chamber because we have lost another four years, Minister. Now the construction of such a medical establishment, by our professional visions as doctors, we are not, of course, builders and architects, will take years. It will not happen for a year, that is, we have a very serious task to do in the eyes of the entire nation and let there be no opposition in this serious task, but really listening to the words of this initiative, as it is guided by people who have serious ideas about the construction of such establishments. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u22	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Would you like to use the backrest, Mr. Minister? Please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u23	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Professor Mihailov, I fully agree with you that leading specialists in individual children's specialties should enter this Public Council, which will give the best suggestions or assessments on how the process of building the children's hospital is going. In this process, of course, the Initiative will also participate throughout the period. I cannot agree, and you will understand me because you have been the head of a medical facility, that I must terminate the contract, which has gone through all the necessary procedure and has been proven to have no violations in this procedure and start the procedure again with a search for a new place, with an announcement of an international competition and so on. This means that from here to the rest of my life I must not leave the courtroom, because none of the procedures we have conducted are illegal. All judicial authorities say that this is a very legal procedure and it must continue, that is, with the Prime Minister, together with the Initiative, we have made two commitments. One commitment is to destroy this building and on the latest project to build a new multi-profile children's hospital. And the second thing is to create such a public council to participate, to recommend, to control the implementation of this project, so that what we have taken before the Initiative, we will fulfill it. They'll be with us at this public council all the time. Their opinion will be heard, the opinion of their specialists, as you say, so I see no concern that there will be any breach of procedure or failure to build the hospital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u24	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question to the Minister of Health Mr. Kiril Ananiev is from the MPs Nadia Klisurska-Zekova and Ilian Angelov Timchev regarding problems in the Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment Velingrad in relation to the treatment of patients with COVID-19.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u25	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! At the end of last month, the medics from the municipal hospital in Velingrad threatened to resign collectively. What are they saying? We are disappointed by the way we receive differing guidelines and orders for the treatment of patients with COVID-19 from the Ministry of Health. The hospital treats sick people from several municipalities of Velingrad, Rakitovo, Sarnitsa, and the capacity and resource at its disposal is limited to treating patients with COVID-19. Nevertheless, the hospital accepts and treats them. However, there is a real danger that the virus will ignite. This is a resort town and the hospital does not meet the sanitary and hygienic conditions for treating patients with coronavirus because doctors are few. They provide advice in other wards as well. After the scandal, and he arose because a patient had to wait and not receive adequate support, the private hospital in Velingrad said it was ready to take patient cases. Dear Minister, the epidemic situation is being complicated right now. Most likely the difficulties facing hospitals, because not only the hospital in Velingrad, but also the hospital in Silistra, had the same problem, most likely such problems will arise and the adequacy of the Ministry is extremely important because, whatever is happening in the health sector, people should not remain without adequate medical care. In this regard, my question to you is: what measures and activities will the Ministry of Health take so that there will be no more similar problems in both Velingrad and other hospitals?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u27	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dear Mrs. Klisurska, Dear Mr. Timchev! At a meeting of Pazardzhik Regional Operational Headquarters, held on 25 June 2020, Dr. Zeko Chesmedzhiev was heard, managing director of the University Hospital "Velingrad" Ltd., who assured the members of the Headquarters that there were no resignations of the staff of the medical establishment. According to him, the hospital is functioning normally. Patients are admitted including with suspicions of COVID-19. Sufficient quantities of personal protective equipment are provided. The monthly salaries of the employees have been paid. Since the beginning of the declared pandemic in the hospital Velingrad, systematic checks have been carried out by RZI Pazardzhik, and organizational methodological assistance has been provided in relation to the state of emergency and the emergency epidemic situation in the country. Recommendations have been given for strict compliance with the algorithm of behaviour in persons suspected and confirmed for COVID-19, as well as for the provision of personal protective equipment and sufficient amount of disinfectants. The RHI shall be informed on a daily basis of available and necessary personal protective equipment and disinfectants and shall supply the medical establishment with them as necessary. The RGI shall carry out checks on compliance with the anti-epidemic requirements of the COVID compartment, the internal compartment and the neurological compartment, and specific instructions have been given on the basis of findings. The monitoring of the implementation of the recommendations shall be subject to ex post checks, including those carried out at the latest 8 July 2020. Currently, the total number of hospitalized with COVID-19 in Pazardzhik district are 39, with six of them being treated in Velingrad Hospital. The leaders of the other medical institutions, members of the Headquarters, expressed readiness for assistance and assistance in receiving and treating patients from the Velingrad region with COVID-19. Hospitals with COVID-19 from the Velingrad region are currently being treated in the hospital town of Pazardzhik, Hospital "Prof. Dimitar Ranev "Peshtera" city, Hospital "Higiya" JSC, University Hospital "Pulmed" city of Plovdiv, Hospital "Zdrave" city of Pazardzhik, Hospital "Uni Hospital" city Panagyurishte. Emergency patients with other diseases are served by both Velingrad Hospital and the University Hospital. At a meeting of the Regional Operations Headquarters held on 1 July 2020, the personnel problem was also discussed after confirmation of a positive result for the CIVID-19 of a doctor and nurse from the internal ward, which requires the manager to undertake a reorganization of the work in the ward, with subsequent coordination with the RHIF town of Pazardzhik in order to ensure continuous reception and treatment of patients. There is also the issue of insufficient control by the head of the medical institution regarding compliance with the provisions on anti-epidemic measures, the admission of escorts to the hospital despite the ban and the use of personal protective equipment by the staff. It is the responsibility of each head to organise, manage and control the activities of the hospital entrusted to him. The problems of Velingrad Hospital should be notified in a timely manner to the General Assembly of Velingrad, the mayor of Velingrad municipality and the institutions controlling the medical establishment. I would like to assure you that regardless of the tension that has been created in the media space, the hospital is working normally, they continue to receive and treat patients, including the CIVID-19 and the RZI, the town of Pazardzhik, will continue to control the work of the medical establishment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u28	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Would you like to use a line? Mr. Timchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u29	Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, I expected here from this tribune you to recognize the following: from the beginning of the epidemic situation in Bulgaria with the CIVID-19 the private hospitals in Bulgaria refuse to hospitalize the sick and to serve them. And it's not just a problem in Velingrad, it's a national problem! You should have said from this tribune that only state and municipal health care deal with this pandemic, and at the same time doctors from municipal hospitals are not prepared to cope and treat the patients with the CIVID infection. There are no criteria for hospitalization of the sick. That's how hospitals are burdened, and others aren't. It has come to you to call on private hospitals to enter into action. You've come to the point of making remarks to individual hospitals, which, by gasping from the rush of patients, introduced the unacceptable criterion for patients to enter with a preliminary PCR test that is paid by patients. [[(Reply from Minister Kiril Ananiev:]] How could it not be true if it's true? [[Reply from Minister Kiril Ananiev: "Don't lie! "]] You charged municipal hospitals with their own account to find compartments for a COVID infection without having the equipment, without having the staff to deal with it. Not to mention that at national level, there are no infectiouss, so-called Republican specialists who come on site and consult the complicated cases. This makes sick and admitted to a municipal hospital, as it cannot cope, be dehospitalized and hospitalized elsewhere. Not to mention that by the time they are hospitalized, patients are footballed from one hospital to another and tragic cases occur. Create criteria! There are admitted patients who are only carriers of the infection. The hospital almost protects their fear. You have also increased the cost of the clinical path, and you are talking about high standards and quality of service. Until the end of your term, you will not do the so-called... [[Reply from Minister Kiril Ananiev: "Come on, read it! "]] I'm not reading it! That's the truth. Normalize the system and make such an organization because both doctors and patients in Bulgaria will continue to suffer. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u30	Thank you, Mr. Timchev. Mr. Minister's doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u31	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Timchev, from this tribune only truths should be said, not things that are pleasing to be heard by some of the parties here in the Chamber. Don't insult the Bulgarian doctors not only doctors, but also medical staff in municipal hospitals. There is a protocol to treat all Bulgarian citizens who have entered any medical facility so that they can be treated by the coronavirus first. Secondly, all hospitals, including municipal hospitals, are fully equipped with the necessary anti-epidemic and protective means so that staff are not put at risk by the disease. What you just said. You don't seem to be reading my orders. We introduced with my order a regime in which, after the tenth day, if the patient is feeling well or whether he is still carrying a coronavirus, he can go to home quarantine and continue to be treated because he is in a mild condition. In this way we create conditions for our medical institutions to really accept for treatment those who are in medium or very difficult condition. All the others can be quarantined and complete their treatment at home. In addition, given the complexity and ignorance of this new virus, we started off at a much lower price on the clinical path Next week we will sign an annex to the National Framework Treaty and we will increase the price of the clinical path double, and not only on this path, but also on all infectious pathways, and they are six in number. This, of course, is a new process for us, a new disease for us. You see what happened in other countries as well. I think we're responding quite adequately to the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u32	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. A declaration on behalf of a group. Mrs. Ninova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u33	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen ministers, honourable Bulgarian citizens! Yesterday, something unprecedented happened at the Presidential Institution. Severely armed representatives of the law enforcement authorities, as well as the prominent actions of the judicial authorities, are a blow to the rule of law, the Constitution and the rule of law in the country. Today, Prime Minister Borisov transferred responsibility for what is happening in the country to the NSO. Too simple, Prime Minister! The responsibility for what is happening in Bulgaria is yours! Ten-year-old headquarters! For these years in various coalition formats, but with a leading force political party GERB, statehood has been broken down. The institutions do not work, Bulgaria is among the most corrupt countries in Europe, in Bulgaria poverty and inequalities are the highest. Our children are getting further and further down the charts in literacy. Demographic disaster is a fact. You've put us in the humiliating 111th place in freedom of expression. You've turned our beautiful nature into the dump of Europe and the world. But most of all, you have created a mafia-olligarchic model of government and anyone who opposes this model is hunted, fired, persecuted and compromised. You hold the people in submission and rule with fear, but fear gives no future. He can guarantee dictatorship, but he doesn't give perspective. And this is what we want: a normal life and perspective for the development of Bulgaria and every Bulgarian. Yesterday, thousands of people came out to say that this can't go on like this. We congratulate them on the courage and the will together to restore statehood and stop the mafia in Bulgaria. I would like, on behalf of the Bulgarian Socialist Party, from the parliamentary group of Coalition BSP for Bulgaria, to state here openly so that there will be no speculation, talk of coup and not allow yourself to pursue people in the country. That is why I am doing this from the parliamentary tribune directly, openly and fully aware of the responsibility I bear: thousands of our members and sympathizers, coalition partners, people who have nothing to do with BSP, since yesterday, have declared a desire and willingness to participate in protests throughout the country. Not just to protect the President, but to save Bulgaria. And we will! Yesterday we were banned from holding our traditional meeting of the Left on top of Buzludzha. [[Noise and lines.]] Okay, we'll do it on the yellow pavement in Sofia in front of the Council of Ministers. We'll do it as a national rally. [[Lowered applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u34	Order, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u35	And let all those wishing to change, regardless of their party interests, unite together - it is not about our party ratings or personal ratings - but about Bulgaria, dear Bulgarians. We, the parliamentary group of Coalition BSP for Bulgaria, have one advantage over all of you who are outside expressing your will. We are a parliamentary represented party and will use all mechanisms of law and parliamentaryism in Bulgaria. We are putting a vote of no confidence here in Parliament, and we believe in your support outside of it on this day. We address you, honourable MPs! Think about the mathematical sum of one hundred twenty-one here inside, or the energy of thousands outside; the expensive personal parliamentary place for a few more months, or the years future for Bulgaria and the prosperity of the people! And since yesterday we celebrated the anniversary of the 170th anniversary of Ivan Vazov's birth, I will end with his words, whatever you do: [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u36	Thank you. Declaration on behalf of AG of GERB. Here you go, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u37	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In recent days we have witnessed provocation, but also confusion in the Bulgarian society, which is the result of this provocation. A few days ago NSO's guards acted extremely inadequately against Bulgarian citizens, some of them political activists, party leader. I repeat, the NSO, which is subordinate to the president, whose director and boss is his personal proposal, and that is why this man has not yet resigned. We have witnessed that the supporters of the President in their protest against the President-controlled NSO have organised a protest against the government, which has no bearing on either NSO or if there is, it is minimal, nor on the guards and employees of the NSO, who have defied the Bulgarian flag and who behaved inadequately a few days ago. As a result of these scenes, the Bulgarian President yesterday allowed himself a language which no Bulgarian President and Head of State has allowed himself in the 1300-year history of the country. The president was chanting, "Mouthy, out!" without saying who the goons are. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Okay, thank you, we're the goons. The President called a million Bulgarian citizens goons! And we are no longer able to contain these one million people! We refuse to stop them anymore! For three years these people have endured insults, endured all kinds of provocations and epithets! We are unable to contain them any longer, and we refuse to do so! Today we will also protest, but not against the President! We guarantee the European path of Bulgaria! We are a guarantee that the Mafia will not regain the country as is the slogan of one of your sympathizers who has been hiding in Dubai for several months and has been calling for courage, but is afraid to come here and along with you to wave the flag of the revolution. We oppose Bulgaria's diversion from the European path, but we are concerned about something else: the economic crisis related to the coronavirus will escalate autumn and winter. Every day lost in political instability, in early elections, for which you are not ready yourself, in dividing society and opposition of Bulgarian citizens, will cost very dearly to every Bulgarian citizen. You don't think about people. You're thinking of yourself, even though your account is wrong! Because if there's an election tomorrow, you'll lose them. [[Applause from GERB.]] And you will lose them because the majority of Bulgarian citizens do not believe you. They don't believe you're concerned! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u38	Order, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u39	If you were concerned, you wouldn't be doing what you're doing! Protecting the President does not mean that the Presidency.. all employees and people who are part of the political team of the President must be untouchable to the prosecution. Those times are over! There are no untouchables! When you received a judgment and this judgment was obtained informally before it was officially published on the court's page, you have to answer how and with what motives you took it and sent it to a businessman. When someone accidentally left documents in your register for you at the National Intelligence Service, you have to answer where you got them and who you were going to give them to. These are very serious things! And we don't comment here on either the prosecution's investigation or the way they came in to search these people's offices. We need to set a very clear line. Bulgaria is a democratic state and it must be governed by politicians, and by politicians who have won the majority of the trust of Bulgarian citizens. There will certainly be dissatisfied. And there's nothing wrong with that. It's part of democracy. However, when someone is trying to gain power through the back door, not through the elections, not through gaining the confidence of the citizens, but through some attempts at revolutions to divert the country from its efforts to overcome the economic crisis, to overcome all the other challenges that are around us when talking about how in Serbia it was very good, because there the police have beaten the protesters, they have to think. That's not good! This means that this society is extremely divided, that people are frozen among themselves, that they are divided into solid cores. And if you want to achieve this in Bulgaria, we are against it! We don't want people hating each other. [[Applause from GERB.]] We do not want to instigate anyone against the BSP or against any other political power, but we are unable, I repeat, to hold our people back, because our people were told by the Bulgarian President that they were mutes and he said: "Out! Out where? Where do they go?! These people live in Bulgaria and have exactly the same rights as the Bulgarian President except that they have no immunity. [[Applause from GERB.]] These people deserve the respect of the Bulgarian Head of State and he must offer his apologies because he insulted them.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u40	Ours and yours?! TOMA BIKOV: Our voters. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I'm not responsible for your constituents! But our voters are a million people and these people are part of Bulgaria. I hope, as we respect your sympathizers, our sympathizers will be respected by you! I call on you to make every effort together tonight not to go to excesses and provocations! Let each one express his views as he sees fit and within the framework of the law. Thank you. [[Woman cheering from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u41	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Mr. Kutev, please come in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u42	Dear Mr. Chairman, the situation has obviously been the least nervous since yesterday, judging by the two declarations we have heard here. I do not think that we are in a situation that could be resolved along the way of parliamentary declarations. It seems to me that for one reason or another, we have a situation in which, obviously, when some groups of people oppose others... I personally have experience with counter-protests. I want to tell you that they are quite unsuccessful. Let's see how it goes tonight. However, the very fact that this is happening in our society means that we must take action. Those measures will not happen during the declarations. I don't know what the measures that parliament is...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u43	What's the procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u44	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u45	That's exactly what I'm doing right now, Mrs. Daritkova. Don't be angry, calm down! You'll fall out of power sooner or later, then we'll be there, talking the other way around. Easy, easy! [[Noise, lines, laughter from BSP for Bulgaria.]] These measures I do not know what measures should be taken, but one part of the measures, in my opinion, is the National Assembly... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u46	What do you have for me, Mr. Kutev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u47	I'm just calling you. One part of the measures is the National Assembly to perform its role as the main body in the Republic of Bulgaria. We are a republic with parliamentary rule!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u48	It's a second declaration!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u49	One big part... It's not a second declaration. Don't call from the spot!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u50	How can it not be a second declaration?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u51	A large part of the problems we have seen in recent days are provoked by the actions of the Attorney General. Obviously, there's no... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u52	This is not the way to lead!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u53	Mr. Kutev, I'll take your word for it! I don't hear any procedure so far. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u54	Don't take my word for it! The procedure is for you. [[Noise and lines.]] I suggest you, as President of the National Assembly, use your powers under Chapter X of the Rules and challenge a hearing of the Prosecutor General as soon as possible. Because, I say again, a lot of the problems that make these declarations...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u55	This is not a procedure in the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u56	Yes, it is! You must challenge Chapter X according to this conversation! The Attorney General can only be heard in the National Assembly...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u57	Of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u58	Your time is up!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u59	And you... Let's get this over with. And you're the one who has to call him. So I demand that you organise a hearing of the Attorney General on the powers he has, exceeds or does not exceed, depending on what and how the National Assembly will evaluate it. You must call him as soon as possible. Thank you. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u60	Thank you. It wasn't a procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u61	No, it wasn't! If you don't call him, we'll call him.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u62	That was some kind of joint offer. [[Noise and lines.]] No remark was made, no recommendations for the manner of conduct. Keep in mind that next time I'll probably interrupt you from the beginning. We are continuing with the last question to the Minister of Health Mr. Kiril Ananiev. He is from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova regarding the delay in the results of the tests for coronavirus testing. Mrs. Sidorova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u63	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! For four months now, our country has been in an unprecedented situation, namely the pandemic of a coronavirus. Thousands of tests are done every day. However, mass in the country became cases of delayed results or of results that did not reach the people being tested. And if, at the beginning of the pandemic, you understand the month of April, slowing down a PCR test with 48 hours maybe it seemed, let's say, more normal because it was the beginning of the pandemic after all, our country had not been organized, July, on the fourth month, this already seems more than odd. I will not talk about the shock that Bulgarian citizens are experiencing, waiting 48 hours and more about whether they are carriers of the virus or not. In the country, especially where there are no reference laboratories, and in some of the district cities, the results arrive at seventy-two hours. It's three days of suffering and wondering what's going on, whether you're sick or not? I will also leave you with the risk assessment that such an organization carries, because three days of virus carriers are free to walk everywhere. And for these cases, we have not one signal in the media space. I myself, when I was tested, 72 hours didn't come my score. That's a funny excuse, or rather the message: if your score is negative, we won't be looking for you, we won't be calling you. This is ridiculous, understand it! You can't have a man who has to go to the hospital, wait two days and not know if he's sick or not! In this regard, my question to you is: what is the delay in coronavirus testing and the weaknesses in communicating and informing individuals who have done the test? How real do you think achieving the necessary good organization and ending this real nightmare for people is?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u64	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sidorova. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u65	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Sidorova, regarding the question I would like to inform you of the following. First of all, the time from sampling to delivery in the laboratory, carrying out a PCR test and communicating the results depends on one major factor: whether the laboratory that will perform the test is in the same place or not. If the laboratory is in the same locality, the duration of the process varies most often in the order of 15 minutes to four hours depending on how many addresses should be visited and how many samples employees should take from regional health inspections. It is unacceptable to carry any sample to the laboratory and then continue with the following, as this would further delay the trial. In this sense, when collecting a certain number of samples, the same shall be submitted for testing in the laboratory and then continued to take the following samples. In cases where the laboratory is located in another locality, for some areas such as Blagoevgrad, Vidin, Gabrovo, Kyustendil, Montana, Pernik, Smolyan, Sofia-district, in rare cases and Lovech, the sample is sent to the National Reference Laboratory of Grip and acute respiratory diseases at the National Center for Infectious and Parasitic Diseases or another laboratory designated by order of the Minister of Health, which takes in most cases at least 12 hours. The samples submitted shall be processed on the same or on the following calendar day, depending on the time of arrival of the samples, their number and workload of the National Reference Laboratory or other laboratory where the samples are delivered. It should also be taken into account that the study is carried out by equipment that has a certain capacity. In order to be used optimally with respect to the number of samples tested, it would be most appropriate to engage the apparatus with tests when collecting a maximum number of samples that can be processed. According to the opinion of the National Centre for Infectious and Parasitic Diseases, the optimal time to perform a PCR test method is at least four or five hours, including acceptance, registration, preanalytic treatment of samples, extraction of viral nucleic acid, a process that takes at least an hour and a half, PCR amplification, a process that takes at least two hours with the accompanying manual manipulations. In the case of a larger number of samples, the time for manual handling is extended. In order to complete the PCR test cycle, the reporting and reporting time should also be taken into account. As I have already noted, the time for carrying out a PCR test depends on the number of samples and their delivery in the laboratory. The bigger this number, the longer the time for carrying out the study, respectively the communication of the results. It should be taken into account that it is possible to compromise the results in the event of incorrect sampling, storage and/or transport of samples, as well as in the event that the samples are submitted to the laboratory later than 72 hours after their collection. According to the information received from regional health inspections, there is no delay in the submission of samples. A case of such a delay may be seen as a single case rather than as a frequent practice. The communication of the results by the National Reference Laboratory, as well as in most other laboratories, shall be carried out electronically, including by e-mail. In most RGIs an organization has been established, including with the disclosure of a telephone line on which the patient can obtain information related to his research. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u66	Dear Minister, I have given you a little more time to clarify this matter. Here's a line for you, Mrs. Sidorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u67	Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thanks for the answer, though. I gave you an example of 3 cases, which are publicly known, of samples that become clear after more than 48 hours. There was a case of a man who had already died from a coronavirus and then it became clear the result. One of the cases is in Sofia.. 36 hours is waiting. And the other problem, which is huge, is the communication problem how people who have given the test understand what the result is -- an electronic system, an electronic announcement, believe me, there is no such thing. You get through Weiber or, as I read on RZI-Sofia's website, if you don't get a call, you're negative. People are looking forward to finding out if they're sick or not, that's murderous. You yourself must have been tested, and you know it's really terrifying. What you told me 4 hours, 12 hours is within the reasonable, but 36, 48, 72 hours really doesn't sound serious. Did it not become clear to me whether communication within the RZI in the country will be improved, so that the people who gave the sample can really, within a normal time. 24 hours, understand if they are carriers or not? I hope that the information system and the output system will be improved for more adequate action and a quick solution to this problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u68	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sidorova. Would you like a douche? Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control, Mr. Ananiev. We are moving on to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva. The first question is from the MPs Polina Shishkova and Kristina Sidorova on mechanisms for support of cooperatives. Who will present the question? Here you are, Mrs. Shishkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u69	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, the Law on Enterprises of the Social and Solidar Economy aims to promote development, create favourable conditions and take the necessary measures to support the entities included in art. 5 of the same law. Co-operations, as a subject of the social and solidarity economy, have had a significant role in the country's economic, social and social development for 130 years. Their contribution to the benefit of society is undeniable, and the cooperative business model has proven its sustainability in its long history. The solid economy is both part of the real economy, but also part of civil society, which is why the necessary support is also provided at European level. Over the years, cooperatives have had the opportunity to actively carry out their activities for the benefit of the people by being the main partner of the state in the transport of bread, bread products and essential goods in mountain and small settlements, with the exception of resorts. At the moment, in particular in times of difficulties, cooperatives face numerous challenges, but do not abdicate from their historical role, namely care for people. Unfortunately, the State's support for stimulating their socially responsible activity is insufficient. In view of the above, my question to you is as follows: what are the mechanisms for stimulating and supporting the activities of cooperatives as a subject of the social and solidarity economy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Shishkova. You have the floor to answer, Mrs. Sacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u71	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Shishkova, cooperatives are identified as subjects of the social and solidarity economy in the Law on Enterprises of the Social and Solidar Economy, and measures for them are laid down in the Action Plan on the Social Economy 2020. In its nature the plan is quite ambitious and the crisis in relation to the spread of the coronavirus has led to a temporary slowdown in the pace of its performances. In general, we focus our efforts on raising stakeholders' awareness of various aspects related to the functioning of the social and solidarity economy and social entrepreneurship, information provision and creation of supporting structures, creating an appropriate environment for the functioning and providing them with educated and trained staff. Within the framework of the implementation of this plan works an interdepartmental working group on social economy to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy in which all stakeholders are represented. One of the important measures we have envisaged to support cooperatives is the forthcoming creation of a digital platform through which social enterprises will be able to carry out their activities with the aim of future partnerships, joint activities, trade exchanges and exchanges of know-how, search and recruitment and staffing, training and others. A very important part of the platform will also be the provision of information on opportunities for raising capital and funding under various national and European programmes and projects. A European Action Plan on the Social Economy with a Time Range 2021 is under way, 2026 which Bulgaria actively participates in its preparation. Measures in this European plan will also be aimed at supporting cooperatives and, in particular, at improving recognition and understanding of the social economy and social enterprises and improving access to markets and financing. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy also maintains a register of social enterprises. The companies included in this register are given the opportunity to use the brand of the Social Enterprise Product, whose aim is both to increase their visibility and to encourage customers to support their social cause through purchases. The Agency for Disabled Persons shall maintain a register of specialised enterprises and cooperatives of disabled persons, which shall be public. The Agency shall also finance specialised enterprises and cooperatives, with the maximum subsidy amount of up to 80 thousand. lv. Specially for 2020 the envisaged subsidy amounts to a million and a half leva. The activities are subsidized to create new jobs for people with disabilities, to provide employment in a specialized working environment, construction, repair and training activities, technological renovation, organizational improvement. An application contest was announced in the period 26 May "July 6th." The submission of project proposals is complete. The evaluation is ongoing and as soon as we have the winning projects, we will publicly announce the list of the projects supported by us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u72	Thank you, dear Minister. Would you like a line? Thank you. We move on to the next issue by the MP Alexander Matsurev on the National Employment Action Plan in 2020. Here you are, Mr. Matsurev, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, my question is on the National Employment Action Plan in 2020. At the end of March, the Executive Director of the Employment Agency Dragomir Nikolov signed several contracts with social partners for the implementation of projects under the National Employment Action Plan in 2020. They enable unemployed to participate in training to acquire qualification and key competence, and many of them get a chance to then intern or secure employment. In view of the subsequent state of emergency in the country after the date of signature of the treaties, I believe that the importance of these projects in this year is even greater and more important. In this regard, I would like to ask you the following: at what stage is the implementation of the projects under the National Employment Plan in 2020, which the Employment Agency is carrying out with the social partners? How many projects will be carried out in 2020 with the social partners, and which professions are they aimed at? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u74	Thank you, dear Matsurev. You have the floor to answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u75	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Matsurev, one of the main priorities of the National Employment Action Plan in 2020 is the provision of quality and productive workforce according to the needs of employers. The leading direction of active labour market policy is the training of the workforce and the targeted work with long-term unemployed and unemployed without profession and qualification, as well as with other disadvantaged groups on the labour market. The National Employment Action Plan 2020 provides for a total of 11 thousand funds for training in the state budget. 824 faces. More than half of the trainings are implemented annually together with the national representative organizations of employers and employees. Over the years, this has proven to be a working tool for meeting the demand and supply of a labour force with certain qualifications and skills and combining vocational training with subsequent employment. The trainings of unemployed persons to acquire professional qualifications are carried out on applications by employers and with a subsequent commitment to provide employment. Seven projects will be financed this year. The seven contracts with the social partners for the implementation of these projects were concluded between 26 May and 2 June. Despite the significant changes in the economic and social situation that occurred as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, the planned trainings are expected to fully meet the current needs of business personnel in its restarting and development. A total of 6857 registered unemployed persons will be included in trainings for the acquisition of professional qualifications, of which 5371 persons will also pass training for the acquisition of key competences and complementary vocational training. On 2910, or 42% of those enrolled in training, employment will be provided on the job in accordance with the acquired qualification. The projects will also include registered unemployed from 114 municipalities and 3435 of the participants will be from municipalities with unemployment rates above the national average. For 2,900 of the persons are provided trainings for the acquisition of a first degree of professional qualification, which allows them to include persons with primary and lower than primary education or persons who have completed a course of literacy. 4413 of the persons will be trained in job-seeking professions according to information on regional labour needs. The trainings are in a wide range of professions, including builder, cook, seller, office assistant, computer operator, tailor, social assistant, welder, founder, treasurer, tour guide, electrician and others, to meet stated specific needs of employers from the real and public sector. As of June 30, training on projects started 3924 unemployed persons, of which 2123 were in training on key competences and 3910 in vocational training. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u76	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sacheva. Would you like a line? No. The next question is also from the MP Alexander Matsurev on the implementation of regional employment programmes. Here you are, Mr. Matsurev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, my question is about the implementation of the Regional Employment Programme. With the implementation of regional employment programmes in recent years, activities have been implemented to maintain and preserve municipal and state-owned schools, kindergartens, roads, cultural monuments, maintenance and cleaning of parks and gardens, inter-block spaces, as well as environmental activities for unemployed, registered in the labour offices of the country, to target work to support local government activities, especially in smaller settlements this is serious assistance. In this regard, I would like to ask you the following: how many unemployed do you expect to cover regional employment programmes in 2020 in the country, at what stage are they and when do you expect them to start?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u78	Thank you, dear Matsurev. You have the floor to answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u79	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Matsurev, at the beginning of June 2020, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy launched a procedure to develop regional employment programmes in order to strengthen state support in the context of a crisis caused by the spread of COVID-19, the funds for regional programmes were increased. The financial resources from the state budget amount to 6 million. Three hundred and forty-four thousand. BGN, of which 4 million 758 thousand. lv. planned under the National Employment Action Plan in 2020 and another 1 million. 586 thousand. lv. by redistribution of unused funds by programme and incentive measures. In accordance with the regulatory requirements, the amount of funding of the programme for each area is determined by a methodology that takes into account unemployed persons and the level of unemployment. The presidents of all 28 employment committees in the district councils for development in the country presented to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for validation 28 regional programs. Within the short term until 30 June 2020, an organisation has been established to develop programmes based on proposals from regional and municipal administrations that have been assessed according to methodology and the financial resource has been allocated accordingly. All regional programmes are approved by the Employment Committees. As a result of the joint work of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, regional administrations and municipalities with the participation of social partners on the ground and the territorial units of the Employment Agency under the regional programmes will be employed a total of 2309 unemployed persons Employment will include unemployed young people, persons over 50 years of age, long-term unemployed persons and persons in other vulnerable groups. With funds from the state budget will be financed monthly remuneration of 610 BGN on a full-time basis, 3.66 BGN. part-time wage, additional remuneration under labour law and employer's contributions. The employment subsidy period will be 4 months. At present, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy shall review and validate the programmes received, employing unemployed persons to carry out a wide range of activities such as road network maintenance; parks; gardens; playgrounds and sports grounds; collection and hauling of waste; maintenance of cultural monuments; cemetery parks and others. In the course of the work, the guidelines for anti-epidemic measures of the Ministry of Health and other institutions will be followed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u80	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sacheva. Come in for a cue, Mr. Matsurev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, first of all, I would like to congratulate you on the good employment policy you are pursuing and all your portfolios you are taking. Indeed, these programmes are a great advantage for the unemployed at the moment, and I am very happy that they are being implemented, but I want an additional question: how many unemployed can begin work on the Regional Employment Programme in particular in Blagoevgrad and Bansko Municipality in particular? Do you have information if you can share it with us? Thank you for the comprehensive answers to both this question and the previous one.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u82	Thank you, dear Matsurev. Do you have an answer, Mrs. Sacheva? Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u83	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Matsurev, thank you for your evaluation. Employment-related programmes are in the focus of our attention. You know that this was also the main request to make the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy much more visible in the labour part, because employment is actually the best social policy. With concrete data at the moment it is difficult to be precise, but for Blagoevgrad district, I think there were about 150 jobs and Bansko specifically is probably about 10. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u84	Thank you, dear Minister. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. Next is a question to the Minister of Agriculture Desislava Taneva, from the National Representative Kolyo Milev on the use of water at the Dam Zhrebchevo. Here you are, Mr. Milev, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u85	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, my question is about preserving the ecological balance of the dam. Dear Minister, you know that the dam is public government property and the Ministry operates it through the Regional Directorate of Agriculture. In recent months there have been many inquiries and concerns expressed both by the Union of Hunters and Fishermen in Bulgaria and by many hunting and fishing associations, as well as, of course, by the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture, as well as by the National Federation for Fishing Sports. At the capacity of the dam of 400 million. Cube. M and an environmental minimum of 180 million Cube. At present, they are no more than the last, of 157 million. Cube. Mm, which is disturbing. Most of the water that is planned is for irrigation needs, of course, considered as losses and a very small part of it, evident from estimates, only about 20% is paid for irrigation. My question to you is: do you have some concerns and what measures does the Ministry take to maintain the ecological balance of the dam?Greychevo and restore critically the required volume of 180 million. Cube. - Mm-hmm. - Mm-hmm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u86	Thank you, dear Mr. Milev. You have the floor to answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u87	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mr. Milev, Dear Members of Parliament! Public State Property Act was drawn up for Zrebchevo Dam and management rights were granted to the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, which by order of 17 March 2011, supplemented by an order of 2014 concerning 21 dams of public state property, including the Dam of Zrebchevo. As of 9 July this year, the volume of the dam is 147.2 million. Cube. m. The dam works as a multi-year leveller, currently carrying out the main functions: providing water for irrigation in the area of Nova Zagora and Sliven for areas of irrigation system A control volume of 180 million dam has been introduced. Cube. m below which water masses may be processed for energy production only and only if they are submitted for irrigation. That's being done right now. The hydroelectric power station is located on the dam in the direction of Sliven, which processes the water for an environmental minimum, which is released on the Tundzha River, according to the monthly schedules of the Ministry of Environment and Water and during the watering season processes the water for irrigation, which are caught by the river Tundzha on the dam of Binkos and are transported on the main highway channel M-1. It is expected after its repair under Measure 4.1 potential water saving of a minimum of 28%. According to the Ministry of Environment and Water, the water to the hydropower plants is provided according to a monthly schedule established by the Ministry of Environment and Water with a water volume of more than 180 million. Cube. m and in the case of processed waters granted for irrigation of agricultural areas. At present, only the amount of water required for irrigation shall be submitted to the hydropower hydropower station to the two MWPPs of the hydroelectric power station. The Ministry of Environment and Water in the established monthly schedules shall be submitted to the hydroelectric power station. There are several farm farms built on Zrebchevo Reservoir, which in 2017 at lower water levels than those to date have been moved to other areas with greater depth and have been returned to their previous places in 2018. The expectations are that the same situation of estimated volume should be imposed in this year at the end of the flood season of 103 million. Cube. m in the case of continuing drought and increased interest in irrigation. In Act 16 of the Reservoir "Zhrebchevo" and in accordance with art. 50, para. 4 of the Water Act the priority purpose of the dam is for irrigation. If necessary, I can provide other data.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u88	Thank you, dear Minister. Would you like a line? Here you go, Mr. Milev, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u89	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, what you have said so far is as you can see, and recent rains have also not affected the filling of the dam and even the volumes have decreased to 148 million. Cube. m. I believe that it is not appropriate to re-move the cages of those owners who grow fish, and perhaps more adequate measures should be taken to obtain a larger amount of water if a request from the Ministry of Environment and Water should also be made by the Ministry of Environment and Waters to submit an additional flow of water from the dam of Koprinka, which can be done. Also one question: from this stream that passes through the hydroelectric power plants and irrigation permits, do you have any data on how much cc of this stream is paid by the owners who irrigate? Because in my report, only 20% of the permitted quantities are on average paid for irrigation each month, which is unacceptable and leads to doubts that almost most energy is going to extract electricity from the hydroelectric power plants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u90	Thank you, dear Mr. Milev. Here you go, Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u91	First to answer the question that water is practically used for electricity production and 20% is paid. That is definitely not true, and I have already explained how the use is. First, water use is determined by the Ministry of Environment and Water. It's through the power plants alone. Here, I can say that for this year only in May and June, the quantities that have been determined are practically watering, and in no case can we say that they benefit from electricity production In addition, the situation at Zhrebchevo Dam was alleviated by letter dated 23 June 2020. "Irrigation systems" has asked the Ministry of the Environment and the National Electricity Company for the months from July to October 2020 including to be dropped from the lake "Koprinka" along the Tundzha River additionally 5 million. Cube. M/month, or a total of 20 million. Cube. m by the end of the 2020 watering season. There is no answer for this, but even if it does happen, we are still far from the control volume of the dam.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u92	Thank you, dear Minister, and for your participation in today's parliamentary control. We move on to the questions to the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov. The first question is from the MP Yavor Bozhankov on the construction of the so-called Danube Bridge 3 connecting the Romanian town of Zimnic and the Bulgarian city of Svishtov. Here you are, Mr. Bojankov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I recently conducted a reception room in Svishtov, where the main issue that citizens are asking is related to the construction of Danube Bridge In 2019, Prime Minister Borisov says he is in an advanced phase of negotiations and is about to be ratified in both Parliaments, even saying that the construction of the bridge can begin within weeks. A year later this is not a fact and there is no clarity on the subject. In this regard, it is also my question: is the Danube Bridge 3 project ready? Has it been adopted by the governments of both countries? When do you think the quoted project will be proposed for ratification of the parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria? When will the project be ratified by the Romanian side if you have such information? When will the actual construction of a third bridge over the Danube begin? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u94	Thank you, dear Mr. Bojankov. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u95	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Bojankov, the development of transport infrastructure related to the Danube region is a top priority. Improving connectivity in the Bulgarian-Romanian border zone creates favourable conditions for more active cooperation in the economic and social sphere and more efficient use of resources and potential for the development of cross-border cooperation. For many years the Bulgarian country has been extremely active and constantly insists on identifying the location to the Romanian institutions and to launch common actions for the construction of a third bridge over the Danube between the two countries, which will further develop not only good neighbourly relations, but will contribute to attracting investments, to changing the demographic indicators of the respective economic and administrative centres located along the river. The need for a new facility is even more clearly expressed after the entry into operation of the Danube Bridge 2 in Vidin "Calafat," which works at full capacity and road traffic exceeds forecasts in the course of pre-project studies carried out before it was built. At the same time, road traffic is increasing, which is observed through Danube Bridge 1 in the case of Ruse. The increasing trade exchange on the Rhine-Dunav corridor and on the E-85 direction leads to significant traffic jams in the area of the bridge in Bulgarian and Romanian territory. The technical performance of the existing bridge also does not provide opportunities to ease traffic. In recent years, many technical and expert meetings have been held to discuss the common initiatives between Bulgaria and Romania, including the construction of a new bridge over the Danube. Various strategic documents and studies have also been developed to improve connectivity between the two countries and the development of the cross-border region, the basic documents The last signed Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of Romania is dated 29 March 2019 concerning the implementation of joint initiatives to improve the conditions for shipping in the common Bulgarian-Romanian section of the Danube River and the transport connectivity between the two countries. In the document the two countries expressed their desire to continue their good neighbourly relations through the development of transport infrastructure and agreed to prepare a preliminary study to build a third bridge over the Danube at one of the following proposed places: Oryahovo The idea of building a new bridge facility on the Danube is very actively supported by the public and local authorities in Northeastern Bulgaria, each of the municipalities of Nikopol, Oryahovo, Silistra, Svishtov and Ruse seeking support and insists that the location be in their territory. In 2019, i.e. last year, a Romanian private investor presented to the Bulgarian country a preliminary feasibility study for the investment project "Most Danube South" (Svishtov At a meeting at ministerial level, the two countries agreed to prepare a draft international treaty covering the necessary elements to start the construction of the new bridge. With my order and order, together with the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, a team of Bulgarian experts was formed, which started discussions on the circumstances related to the preparation of the document. The Bulgarian side examines the possibilities for implementation of the project, including legal issues and examines the need to build the approach infrastructure, defines the possible risks that may delay or hinder the signing of the contract, as well as the implementation of the project. The preparation and signing of the contract was not carried out. In the autumn of 2019 the Romanian side gradually suspended correspondence on its preparation. The possible causes are of a different nature. We assume that due to the frequent changes in governments, the Romanian side is unable to focus sufficiently and consistently on the importance of such a facility. It is also possible, pressed by various circumstances, including the global crisis with the spread of the coronavirus, to reconsider their investment interests and intentions. Despite the situation created, the Bulgarian country continues to work actively and to seek the support of Romanian colleagues for the implementation of the initiative to build a third bridge over the Danube. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u96	Thank you, dear Minister. Would you like the word for a line? Here you are, Mr. Bojankov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u97	Dear Minister, I understand from what I have said that because of some other circumstances at the moment the project has an unknown future and an unknown horizon. Perhaps it is also correct on your part, since Svishtov at the highest state level has announced that construction will begin, and in short time and agreements have been reached, to inform the citizens of the opposite, as they obviously create a definite expectation and mood that there will be a Danube Bridge 3. I had prepared guidance questions concerning the highway Ruse.. Veliko Tarnovo and, of course, the connection with Svishtov, as this is the other question they are asking. Even if there is a Danube Bridge, of course, for the development of the municipality, of the region it is important what will be the connection with the future highway, at what stage is the highway financed? Is there funding and at what stage is the speed connection? After your answer, it is obvious that these questions are losing their meaning because I understand that for now the project remains more virtual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u98	Would you like the word for the doppelganger, Mr. Minister? No. We are moving on to the last question for today from the National Representative Dimitar Danchev about aviation noise on the nearby residential areas located near Sofia airport. You have the floor, Lord Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, at the end of April this year I asked you a question about aviation noise on nearby residential areas located near Sofia Airport. I understand from your reply that, for almost seven years from the introduction of a noise charge, on 1 July 2013 until 31 March 2020, they have been presented and addressed, I quote, about 900 thousand. lv. Annually. In fact, it is not clear whether these are actually the funds raised. I also learned from your reply on the topic that the money collected from noise charge was spent mainly on palliative measures to combat noise, such as purchase of software and subscription support for the noise monitoring system, cost of amortization and wage costs. The general conclusion that can be drawn from the answer is that the measures taken by your subordinate administration to reduce the impact of aviation noise on the nearby areas of Sofia airport include many assessments, many monitoring, many plans, very good intentions to prevent or reduce the impact of noise, I quote: where possible, to set up a noise management group, I quote again, but with the participation of groups in the community only if possible. I also understand that the requirements for the future concessionaire at Sofia airport are, I will quote once again, first of all, for compliance with the minimum requirements for noise monitoring. After receiving your reply, I received hundreds of signals from citizens from the region of Publishing, the region of Slatina, the region of the region of Slatina, the region of Kremiktsovtsi, for low-flying or landing planes causing highly insufferable noise and disturbing the tranquility of the inhabitants of these regions, including in the small hours of the day between 2:00 and 5.00 p.m. In this regard, I ask you to answer: Is the flight limit broken over Sofia's residential areas located near the time range airport between 22.00 and 6.00 and which aircraft operators are operating these flights? What kind of flights are mentioned? Is an additional increased fee for flying over residential areas in the time range between 22.00 and 6.00? Are the designated anti-noise procedures followed? Is there real-time information available to citizens and stakeholders on measured noise levels? And specifically for those dates 2 July, 3 July and 5 July, what was the cumulative noise limit of flights carried out in the time range 22,00 How were these flights charged? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u100	Thank you, dear Mr. Danchev. I guess SOVID-19 radically solved the matter in a few months, but things must be recovering. Here you are, Minister, for the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u101	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Danchev, the opportunities to avoid flying over the city of Sofia at any time of the day depend on a number of factors such as weather conditions, aircraft weight, crew preparation, flight technical condition of the given aircraft, limitations arising from its flight manual and others. The direction and speed of the wind are a leading factor in the selection of the take-off and landing direction. As a rule, all aircraft take off and land against the wind measured at the aerodrome runway. Statistically speaking, the landing from the west with passing over the city of Sofia occurs less often than the landing from the east, with the annual percentage distribution for 2019 being about 35 landings executed over the city, compared to 65 landings executed from the opposite direction. Due to the mutual location of the city and the runway at Sofia airport, the unconditional requirements for aviation safety require in some cases planes to fly over certain areas of the capital because these are the only possible ways to safely fly or fly to and from Sofia airport. In the indicated time range 22,00 "6:00" there are delayed charter planes of airlines which are based at Sofia airport or special cargo flights according to diplomatic notes of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Greater delays in the base flights for Sofia airport are received in cases of already generated delays from earlier flights on planes. The special cargo flights according to the diplomatic notes of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are not performed regularly and are not typical for Sofia airport. To your question, what are these flights, flights are chartered or special flights under diplomatic notes of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. A noise or environmental fee shall be calculated according to the take-off weight of aeroplanes and the time of their take-off and landing. Its amount is higher for the hours from 6.00 to 6.59 hours and 23.00 hours to 23.59 hours, and the highest is the fee for departures and landing in the range from 0.00 to 5.59 hours. The specific rates of the fee are published on the e-page of the Sofia Airport EAD. Anti-hush procedures shall be followed unless safety considerations dictate otherwise. When choosing a take-off and landing direction, a leading factor is the ground wind of the runway, and other conditions that I have already mentioned are also complied with. For the dates 2 July and 3 July in the small hours of the night over the city of Sofia have landed late charter passenger flights of Wizz Air and special cargo flights performed according to diplomatic notes of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Weather conditions data in the small hours of July 2nd and July 3rd show that east and south-east wind prevails, which is why a approach to land from the west had to be implemented with passage over the city of Sofia. Therefore, at 3.05 on July 3rd on a plane Il-76 carrying out a special cargo flight, according to the diplomatic note of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it had to implement an approach from the west and fly over Sofia, which led to complaints by citizens. Currently, the employees of Sofia Airport EAD together with specialists from DS Guide of the Air Traffic are preparing answers to each of the submitters. At midnight on July 5th at 11:59 p.m., on July 4, the same plane Il-76 again carrying out a special cargo flight took off in a western direction towards Sofia due to a prevailing western wind. At present, no real time information is available from the measured aircraft noise levels in the monitoring system. Periodically, for each quarter and year, reports on the results of the own continuous measurements of aviation noise, which are provided to RIEW Sofia, the Environment Executive Agency shall be prepared. In particular, the monitoring system does not measure the cumulative noise limit for the dates "July 2nd, July 3rd and July 7th'. It shall be calculated for each aircraft according to its noise certificate. The following data are for maximum noise levels and are registered by the noise monitoring terminal, located in the district of Vasil Levski. On 2 July and 3 July, in the small hours of the night over Sofia, charter flights of Wizz Air and special cargo flights landed late. The data shows that the maximum noise levels caused by these charter flights are from 61 to 83 decibels, and the value of 85 decibels according to the LAmax indicator for maximum noise levels when flying aircraft over a certain territory, according to Ordinance No 6 of 2006, for the environmental performances The high noise characteristics are due to the type of aircraft that perform the special flights. These are large-scale and high-stakes Airbus 330-200 tons; Il-76's 170 tons; Boeing 777-200's 270 tons. The largest recorded values are those of Il-76, which has four engines. At midnight on July 5th, only one take-off took place over the city at 11:59 pm. On July 4th, an Il-76 plane, again carrying out a special cargo flight, took off in a western direction due to a prevailing western wind. The maximum noise recorded at take-off shall be 111 decibels. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u102	Thank you, dear Minister. Since it's a final question, I've decided not to limit you, but the details were too much. Here's a line, Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u103	I really thank you on my behalf and on behalf of the Minister, Mr. Chairman, for your patience. Mr. Minister, thank you for your reply. It was quite detailed and comprehensive. From him I realized, at least, I guess the people outside this hall that these flying over residential areas, located near the airport near Sofia, causing noise and stress in the small hours of the day, literally waking the resting citizens, are not something by accident, but on the contrary are everyday. What I missed in your reply is that perhaps, when talking about granting Sofia airport a concession, the possibility given to the concessionaire to build a third terminal, including a second runway, should be explained to the residents of these areas that the stress conditions that are being caused to them and now by all these charter, cargo and other special and regular flights will become even more frequent. It was important to say that in practice there are higher charges for flying planes in the small hours of the day, but they are gathered to force air carriers to perform certain anti-sound procedures, which are obviously often not implemented. In this sense, there are no legally defined fines for breaching the procedure for non-disruption. In fact, it is obtained that those who breach pay the same fee as those who comply with the anti-noise procedures. Moreover, in our methodology for determining the charge, the environmental and anti-noise component is practically about something that is the same. On the basis of the information provided by the Commission, the Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Decision are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I'm graduating. Finally, it is important to say that I, for example, as one of the residents of these areas, tried on the night of both the 2nd and the 3rd to signal, but, unfortunately, neither on the There are probably some phones, but they can only be serviced on working days and only during working hours, which also makes it difficult for citizens to forget that they were awake at night. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-10.u104	Thank you, dear Mr. Danchev. Would you like the word for the doppelganger, Mr. Minister? No. With this, we are running out of parliamentary control today. Thank you, Mr. Zhelyazkov, for participating in it. Next meeting on 15 July 2020, Wednesday, at 9.00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
