ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u1	Good afternoon, fellow Members. There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I use the possibility of the Rules of Procedure under art. 55, para. 2. We are outraged by the facts presented by the Director General of the Bulgarian National Radio Mr. Andon Baltakov, who provoked his resignation as a natural reaction. This once again gives arguments for pressure on public media and subjecting them to mechanisms for political manipulation. It is unacceptable, as an importer of the Media Act, the Minister of Culture Boel Banov to replace prepared by the experts of the National Radio and National Television...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u3	Mr. Iankov, I'm sorry, but this is a declaration on behalf of a group, and you don't have the opportunity.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u4	...experts... I have noted that I am using the possibility of a procedure and you will understand what I mean.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u5	There are several points to this procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u6	Article 55, paragraph 2. National television, experts from other ministries, as well as the participation of independent media experts in a law on which the month is working.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u7	Tell me, what is the procedure? It's a statement, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u8	With regard to the facts submitted by Mr. Baltakov, we are required to be aware of the two versions of the Law and it is regarding the agenda, as well as to be heard by the Director-General of BNT and BNR under the Law prepared by the public media.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u9	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u10	I summon Mr. Baltakov...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u11	Thank you. I understand the procedure. Mr. Yankov, it's a procedure, otherwise it's a declaration. Thank you. Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 I propose that a new item under number two be added to today's agenda: Draft decision on the adoption of Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for a member of the Central Election Commission, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and their hearing in the Committee on Legal Affairs. Please vote on this item to become item two for today. They voted 177 MPs: 126, against 24, abstention 27. The motion is accepted. Message: On 21 October 2020, the National Assembly received a copy of Decision No 14 of 15 October 2020 of the Constitutional Court on Constitutional Case No 2 of 2020. By its decision the Constitutional Court declared as unconstitutional provisions of art. 208, para. 1 in the part of the property provided for for landscaping under art. 61, para. 4 " 15 years" and of art. 215, para. 6 of the Law on Structure of the Area. Moving on to the first item of today's agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR REGISTER BULSTATE. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Mrs. Alexandrova, would you like to introduce us to the Report?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u12	Thank you, Madam President. The Council of Ministers submitted a report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the BULSTAT Registry Act, No 002-01-40, adopted by the Council of Ministers on 28 August 2020, adopted on the first vote on 23 September 2020. The Act for amendment and supplement of the BULSTAT Register Act. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u13	Statements? I can't see. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the Law. They voted 176 MPs: 133, none, abstention 43. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u14	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u15	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 1 and § 2. They voted 149 MPs: 111, none, abstention 38. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u16	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u17	Statements? I can't see. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote for paragraphs 3, 4 and 5. Vote 162 MPs: for 111, against none, abstention 51. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u18	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6, i.e. 1 concerning the new para. 5 words................................................................................. 3, p. 9 " 11" shall be replaced by "chl." 3, para. 1, t. 9 " 11 ".
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u19	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer with the corresponding corrections to the Commission report. They voted 145 MPs: 103, none against, abstention 42. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u20	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u21	Statements? I can't see. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote for paragraphs 7 and 8. They voted 145 MPs: 105, none, 40 abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u22	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes the following name of the division:
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u23	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer by the relevant name proposed by the Commission. They voted 143 MPs: 106 against 1, abstention 36. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u24	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9: ..................................................... Within 14 months of the promulgation of this law in the Official Journal. 3, para. 1, t. 9 and 11 of 10 marked in 9-digit code.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u25	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of Paragraph 9 of the Commission Report. Vote 154 MPs: for 114, against none, abstention 40. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u26	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u27	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 10 and § 11. Vote 158 MPs: 115 against 1, abstention 42. The proposals have been accepted. Moving on to point two: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ACCEPT PROCEDURAL RULES FOR CONDITIONS AND PROCUREMENT OF CANDIDATES FOR A MEMBER OF THE CENTRAL ELECTRONIC COMMISSION, THE PRESENTATION AND PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF DOCUMENTS AND THE HEARING IN THE COMMISSION ON LEGAL QUESTIONS. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u28	Thank you, Madam President! ♪ I can't believe on the discussion of Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates as a member of the The Central Election Commission, the presentation and the public disclosure of documents and their hearing in the Committee on Legal Affairs At its meeting held on 21 October 2020, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed Rules of Procedure for the conduct of a public procedure under art. 93 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the appointment of a member of the Central Election Commission. The need to conduct the public procedure arises from the termination of the powers of a member of the Central Election Commission on the basis of art. 51, para. 3 of the Election Code. In order to implement the provision of art. 51, para. 3 of the Election Code Committee on Legal Affairs on the basis of art. 93, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly propose to adopt procedural rules for the appointment of a member of the Central Election Commission. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs unanimously with 18 votes for the Council, without abstention and abstention, proposed that the National Assembly consider and accept the following: Project! DECISION adopting Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for a member of the Central Election Commission, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and their hearing in the Committee on Legal Affairs The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in connection with art. Art. 46, Art. 47, para. 1 and para. 2, p. 2 of the Election Code and Art. 93 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED It shall adopt Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for a member of the Central Election Commission, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and their hearing in the Committee on Legal Affairs: I. Offering candidates for a member of the Central Election Commission and submitting their documents. 1. Bulgarian NGOs may make proposals for a member of the Central Election Commission to the MPs and parliamentary groups within 3 days of the adoption of these rules by the National Assembly. 2. The proposals for a member of the Central Election Commission shall be made by MPs, parliamentary groups, as well as by parties and coalitions which have been elected with their candidate lists of Members of the European Parliament, but are not parliamentaryly represented, in writing through the National Assembly's case-law to the Committee on Legal Affairs within 5 days of the adoption of these rules by the National Assembly. Where a Member of the National Assembly or a Parliamentary Group makes a proposal based on a proposal from a non-governmental organisation under point (a) of Article 2 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Member State concerned shall make a proposal on the basis of a proposal from a non-governmental organisation under point (c) of Article 3 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1, this is noted in it. 3. The proposals shall contain written reasons justifying the high professional and moral qualities of the applicant concerned. The following documents shall apply to the proposal: - written consent of the applicant according to the template of Annex 1 to the decision; - detailed CV; - certified by the applicant a copy of a diploma for completed higher education with a minimum degree of education and qualification of Master; it is recommended that higher education be in law, computer sciences and computer sciences, mathematics, public communications and information sciences, political sciences and sociology; certificate of legal capacity if higher education is in the specialty of law; - documents certifying that the applicant meets the requirements for internship under art. 50, para. 1, t. 3 of the Election Code; - written consent of the applicant under art. 27, para. 2 of the Act for Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army according to the model Annex No 2 to the Decision; - a statement on a template relating to the requirements of art. 50, para. 1, t. 1 of the Election Code, Annex 3 to the Decision; - The fact of the matter referred to in art. 50, para. 3, p. 1 of the Election Code shall be established by the administration of the National Assembly. II. Public disclosure of documents. 1. The proposals together with the documents under Section I shall be published on the specialized thematic site on the website of the National Assembly. The name and the reasons of the MP who made the proposal shall be published. The publication of the proposals and documents shall be carried out in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act and the Classified Information Protection Act. 2. Non-profit legal entities registered for the pursuit of public utility activities and professional organisations, no later than three days before the hearing of candidates, may submit to the Committee on Legal Affairs opinions on candidates, including issues to be addressed to them. The mass media may send to the Committee on Legal Affairs to the candidates to be assigned to it. Anonymous opinions and alerts shall not be considered. Opinions and questions shall be sent by post to the following address: gr. Sofia, Pl. ==References====External links==*Prince Alexander I "No 1, Committee on Legal Affairs" or e-mail: kpv1@parliament.bg. Opinions and questions shall be published on the website of the National Assembly within three days of their receipt subject to the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act. No specific data constituting classified information shall be published and no personal data shall be published. III. Perform a preliminary check under the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. 1. Candidates shall be checked for belonging to the bodies referred to in art. 1 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The request for prior verification under art. 27, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army are made by the President of the Committee on Legal Affairs. 2. The results of the verification shall be published on the specialized thematic site on the website of the National Assembly. IV. Hearing of proposed candidates as a member of the Central Election Commission. 1. The Committee on Legal Affairs shall hear the proposed candidates for a member of the Central Election Commission who shall meet the requirements for taking up the post under art. 50 of the Election Code. 2. The hearing shall be held at an open meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs, which shall be broadcast in real time through the website of the National Assembly. 3. The Committee on Legal Affairs shall hear the importer of the proposal on the order of its submission and the applicant shall be presented in an exhibition within 2 minutes. 4. The applicant shall be given the opportunity to supplement data from his professional biography as well as to show his view of the activities of the Central Election Commission in an exhibition within 5 minutes. 5. Members of the National Assembly may ask questions to the applicant, including those received under the conditions and in accordance with Section II. 2. The time for questioning is up to 2 minutes. 6. Upon completion of the asked questions, the applicant shall be given an opportunity to answer in an exhibition within 3 minutes. 7. The refusal of a candidate to participate in the hearing shall not stop the procedure. 8. A full stenographic protocol shall be drawn up from the hearing, which shall be published on the website of the National Assembly. 9. The Committee on Legal Affairs on the grounds of art. 93, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall draw up a report from the hearing of the candidates, which shall be sent for information to the Members of the National Assembly and to the President. 10. Following the public procedure, parliamentary parties and coalitions, as well as parties and coalitions, which have been elected with their candidate lists, but are not parliamentaryly represented, within one day of the hearing, shall make proposals to the President of the Republic for the appointment of a member of the Central Election Commission, subject to the requirement of art. 46, para. 8 of the Election Code. The Annexes to the Draft Decision: Annex No 1, Annex 2 and Annex No 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. You have the floor to speak. I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote a draft decision adopting Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for a member of the Central Election Commission, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and their hearing in the Committee on Legal Affairs. They voted 142 MPs: 97 against 4, abstention 41. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR TERRITORY TERRITORY ASSISTANCE. Importer of the Council of Ministers. For the presentation of the Report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management Mr. Veselinov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on construction of the territory, No 002-01-39, submitted By the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 1 October 2020, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Construction of the Area, No 002-01-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 August 2020. Representatives of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, of the Chamber of Architects in Bulgaria and of the Chamber of Builders took part in the Commission meeting. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by the Legal Department of the National Construction Control Directorate. The need for amendments and additions proposed by the Draft shall be justified by the results of checks carried out on the activities of the consultants carrying out construction supervision and the other participants in the construction process and the infringements found relating to unlawful assessments of compliance of investment projects, improperly drawn up acts and protocols during construction, as well as failure to comply with the obligations leading to accidents in the construction, which is linked to a reduced quality of their activities. The proposals are related to the implementation of more effective control by the authorities of the Directorate for National Construction Control. Part of the proposals for amendments and additions are related to the removal of deficiencies in the provisions of the current law concerning the powers of the DNCC authorities and the functions of consultants who carry out an assessment of the conformity of investment projects and/or carry out construction supervision. The draft provides for the possibility for the DNCC authorities to carry out and verify the complex report of the consultant on the basis of which the investment projects were approved and the building permit was granted. It is envisaged that the DNC will be given powers to carry out control over the activities carried out by consultants and persons exercising construction supervision. The Bill provides for an increase in requirements for persons applying for a certificate of conformity assessment of investment projects and/or the exercise of construction supervision. As regards the terms and conditions for issuing a certificate of entry in the register of consultants for assessing the conformity of investment projects and/or the exercise of construction supervision, it is envisaged that the members of the management bodies of the legal person or the sole trader, as well as the persons employed by them under an employment or other contract, are specialists with completed higher education with an education degree of Master and hold technical competence, have at least 5 years of experience in the specialty and have not allowed and/or committed more than two infringements of the Law and its implementing regulations in the last three years. The Law also implements a measure under Decision No 704 of the Council of Ministers of 2018 adopting measures for the transformation of the model of administrative services, according to which the requirements for consultants and individuals of their composition, through which the conformity assessment and construction supervision activities are carried out, should be regulated at the level of the law. The Bill established a restriction on the consultant not to be able to conclude a test contract in the laboratories of the builder or related persons when exercising construction supervision carried out by the same builder. The requirement is that the consultant may not enter into a contract for construction supervision for construction works for which he or he or she employees under other than an employment relationship are builders and/or suppliers of machinery, equipment, technological equipment and related persons within the meaning of the Commercial Law. Following the amendments to the Law, the consultant will not be able to conclude a contract for assessing the conformity of the construction project for which it or its employees, other than the employment relationship, are designers and/or builders, and/or suppliers of machinery, equipment, technological equipment, as well as related persons within the meaning of the Commercial Law. In order to carry out more effective controls on the activities of consultants and construction supervision persons, a change in the number and duration of criminal decrees entering into force on the basis of which an early termination of an issued certificate for the assessment of the conformity of investment projects and/or the exercise of construction supervision is envisaged. It is envisaged that the effect of the certificate should be terminated before the expiry of the period for which it was issued, upon the entry into force of two penal decrees, covering a larger period of time than the time of non-compliance or non-compliance, namely three years. For the extension of the duration of the certificate, it is envisaged that registered persons may submit a written application to the registration authority for the extension of the certificate for a new period of 5 years with a declaration that no changes to the grounds for issuing the certificate have occurred. The bill also provides for an extension of the circle of the construction participants carrying administrative criminal responsibility for violations of the Law on a structure in the territory and the regulations on its application, and the establishment of a separate composition for imposing property penalties on legal persons and sole traders, respectively of fines of natural persons, in order to increase the effectiveness of the activity carried out and the sanctioning powers. The draft provides for the Chairman of the State Agency "Office operations" to coordinate and approve investment projects and issue building permits for special sites related to the defence and security of the country. New administrative penal formations are provided for designers and persons exercising technical control under Part-Consoles, who have failed to fulfil their legal obligations, as well as the imposition of a fine on legal persons carrying out the conformity assessment activities of the projects and/or construction supervision of the construction works for other violations of the law and its implementing acts. New administrative penal formations are also envisaged to impose a penalty payment on legal persons and sole traders - builders, builders exercising construction supervision and persons exercising copyright supervision who have failed to fulfil their obligations under the Law. The Commission received opinions from the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria and from the Chamber of Architects in Bulgaria, where, in addition to the principle support for the Bill, concrete proposals for changes to individual provisions were made. The opinion of the Chamber of Architects was also presented in the Commission meeting, focusing on the provisions which need precision. In their speeches, the MPs supported in principle the proposed bill, paying attention to the need to refine the provisions that would create contradictions or inapplicability in practice. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 11 votes............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I will continue with the second report, but before that, Mr. Chairman, I would ask for a procedure to allow Mr. Yovev the Deputy Minister of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u31	I put to the vote the access to the hall of the Deputy Minister of Regional Development Mr. Yovev. They voted 106 MPs: 92, none, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. Please invite Mr. Jobev to take the place of honor in the Chamber. Mr. Vesselinoff, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Construction of the Area, No 002-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 21 October 2020, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management discussed a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Structure of the Area, No 002-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 October 2020. Representatives of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and of the Chamber of Engineers in investment design took part in the Commission meeting. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mr. Valentine Yovev, Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. He stressed that the Bill was drawn up in the implementation of several decisions of the Council of Ministers relating to the improvement of administrative service and the reduction of administrative burden for citizens and businesses, as well as the clarification and improvement of the process related to the provision of administrative services under the Law on Structure of the territory. The adoption of a regulation by the Council of Ministers is envisaged to lay down the general rules for the organisation of administrative services under the Law on the Construction of the Area and to establish forms of documents for all administrative services carried out under the terms and conditions of this Law. The aim is to reduce the administrative burden on citizens and businesses by uniformising the number and type of documents required for the same service, the type and content of applications for the provision of administrative services and providing various opportunities for submission of applications for the performance of the services and receiving of the completed documents, in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Code. The proposed amendments shall regulate the establishment of a Single Public Register on a device on the territory of the website of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. It is envisaged that the conditions and arrangements for publication and maintenance in the current form of the information in the Unified Public Register under a structure in the territory are determined by a regulation of the Council of Ministers. The single public register by structure of the territory should bring together all registers led by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, Directorate for National Construction Control, Regional Administrations, Municipal Administrations and Administrations of District Divisions. With the help of the Register, the information and documentation needed to perform an appropriate administrative service will be provided, i.e. the conditions for the implementation of internal administrative services, which will greatly alleviate both the citizens and the business and the administration itself. The register will be integrated with the open data portal and the spatial data portal. The Register will be granted limited rights of use to separate layers of information without the possibility of changes by citizens. The draft provides for administrative authorities, public service organisations, public service bodies and judicial authorities to establish, for the purposes of the proceedings concerned, all the circumstances recorded in the Register on the basis of the relevant identification data specified by the applicant, applicant or applicant. It is envisaged that the administrative authority to which an application for the issue of an individual administrative act is submitted may only require a single removal of irregularities and/or the submission of additional documents, of which the authority informs the applicant in writing and provides an appropriate period for the removal of irregularities and/or for the submission of documents. The time limit for the administration to rule out the administrative authority shall start from the date of removal of irregularities and/or the submission of additional documents, not excluding the possibility for the authority to make new observations to the applicant if irregularities and/or deficiencies have not been removed or if new irregularities and/or incompletes arise as a result of their removal. Changes have also been proposed relating to the precision of the provisions relating to construction in landslide areas. The proposed changes are aimed at reducing the administrative and financial burden for citizens and businesses by introducing procedures for professional coordination and information provision. The procedure for the official coordination of the draft detailed planning plans with the central and territorial administrations concerned and with the specialized control bodies, where appropriate, shall be laid down in cases where the coordination is not required to issue acts under the conditions, in accordance with and within the time limits laid down in a special law. The Commission received opinions from the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, from the Chamber of Engineers in Investment Design and from the Bulgarian Industrial Association, where in addition to the principle support for the Bill specific proposals for changes to individual provisions were made. In the course of the discussion, the MPs who spoke supported the proposed bill in principle, paying attention to the need to refine individual provisions that would create contradictions or inapplicability in practice. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 14 votes...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u33	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. The next report is the Commission for Control of the Security Services, Implementation and Use of Special Intelligence Means and Access to Data under the Law on Electronic Communications will be presented by the President of the Commission, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u34	Dear Mr. Chairman! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Construction in the Area, No 002-01-39, submitted by Council of Ministers on 25 August 2020 At a meeting held on 17 September 2020, the Security Services Control Commission, the implementation and use of special intelligence tools and the access to data under the Electronic Communications Act discussed a Draft for amendment and supplement to the Code on Structure of the Area, No 002-01-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 August 2020. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works Mrs. Stoyanka Ilova, Chief Legal Consult, and Mr. Dimitar Grozdanov, Chief Expert at the Directorate of Legal and Mr. Tsvetan Kitov, Chairman of the State Agency. Mr. Dimitar Grozdanov presented the Bill and the reasons for its introduction in the part concerning the proposed amendments and additions concerning the realization of the investment intentions of the provided for the management of the State Agency. He pointed out that the Law empowers the President of the State Agency to coordinate and approve investment projects and issue permits for the construction of real estate within the meaning of § 5, item. 63 of the Additional Provisions of the Construction Act on the territory managed by the Agency. The Minister of Defence, the Minister of Interior, the Chairman of the State Agency "National Security" and the Chairman of the State Agency. Mr. Tsvetan Kitov expressed his opinion on the need to adopt the supplements made by the Draft Law in relation to the removal of incompleteness in the provisions of the law concerning the powers of coordination and approval of investment projects and the issuance of permits for the construction of real estate managed by the Agency, which are special objects related to the defence and security of the country. After the discussion, in which the MPs expressed their support to the Draft, the Commission with 4 votes for the Draft Law, without abstention and 2 votes, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft amendment and supplement to the Law on Construction in the Area, No 002-01-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 August 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u35	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. We are moving on to debates on the tabled bill. You have the floor to speak. Mr. Shishkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! There is no doubt that there is a need for changes to the Law on the structure of the territory in order to regulate the activities of consultants and persons exercising construction supervision and other participants in the investment process. The need to ensure more effective control by the authorities of the Directorate for National Construction Control in the construction process is obvious. The Bill removes incompleteness of the provisions concerning the powers of the DNCC authorities and the functions of consultants who carry out an assessment of the compliance of investment projects and exercise construction supervision. The scope of the conformity assessment shall be precise, thereby aiming at a higher quality of the document, respectively more guarantors for the quality performance of the site. The DNC shall be empowered to exercise control over the activities carried out by consultants exercising construction supervision. The requirements for persons applying for certificates for the assessment of the conformity of investment projects and the exercise of construction supervision shall be extended to those involved in the construction, bearing administrative criminal responsibility for infringements of the Code of Construction on the territory, as well as the regulations governing its application. New administrative penal formations are envisaged for designers who have failed to fulfil their legal obligations, as well as the imposition of a fine on legal persons who carry out the conformity assessment activities of the projects and the construction supervision of the construction works for other infringements under the Law on the Construction of the territory and its implementing acts. The proposed legislative changes will achieve better efficiency of the control exercised, will limit the disproportionate application of the provisions of the Law, as well as avoiding the possibilities for a different and contradictory interpretation, both by the administrative authorities and by the court. Of course, good ideas can not always be scheduled as soon as possible at the first vote. A number of opinions have been addressed to the Bill, which reflect reasonable concerns about excessive increase of measures and the need to refine some of the texts. There is serious expert work to be done between the first and second votes. The recommendations of experts must be taken into account in order to avoid over-winding and overshadowing. I will give a few examples that should be highlighted in the work of the working group. For example, it is not clear what will be the content of the protocol which will draw up ISAT in the preparation of the conformity assessment. Why should this protocol be different from the report prepared by the consultants? It is logical, provided that requirements for the qualification of consultants are set, to set such requirements for the members of the expert councils. But here the bigger question is not whether there should be a protocol or not, but whether it is time to stop this division by categories, because instead of making it easier, it is more and more harassing the process. Isn't it time for all objects to be aligned and for everyone to require a report from a consultant? In this way, the administration will be unloaded by its already excessive burden, which it is currently carrying, and the investment process will be relieved, but this is a discussion that is about to take place. The requirements for the preparation of a technical control report in Part "Console" is also too high a measure and not only is it high, it aggravates the process. This is yet another unnecessary document which has plagued, and does not contribute in any way to simplification and to the quality of construction. However, a discussion on the existence of technical controls must also be opened here. At the moment they are so formalized that they lose their meaning. We need to come up with a new concept to regulate the work of technical control. There is no doubt the need to control the reports drawn up by the consultant. Practice shows that they are currently formalized and ineffective in general. The provision of the DNCC to carry out official control of the reports is a step in the right direction, but it is necessary to refine the procedures under this control, as well as to secure the personnel resources to carry out this control. With regard to sanctions, some of the texts must also be refined. Some of them need to be used to measure the type of infringement and others have to drop out altogether. For example, the fine from 1000 to 3000 BGN. the designer for missed signature in the mutual coordination of the design documentation is completely unnecessary and pointless. These are eraseable technical gaps which will in no way alter either the volume, content or quality of the projects. Another insufficient sanction is the imposition of a fine from 1000 to 10 000 BGN. of a person carrying out the copyright supervision who had an accident during the construction. The person who performs the copyright supervision is an erratic participant in the construction process and cannot be held responsible for accidents occurring during the construction, unless such incidents have occurred following his order. Here, too, the texts need to be refined. In conclusion, the Bill is good and after precision could achieve its objectives for which it is written, namely more control in the construction process. In this regard, I propose that the Members of the National Assembly support the First Voting Bill with the agreement that the texts between first and second readings will be refined. If you'll allow a few words on the second bill. It is much better cleared from a legal and technical point of view. The bill is a very big step in a step of electronization of the construction process, something that has been waiting for many years for the industry, so the texts are extremely well done. The idea is very good, well developed, the whole process to be registered in a platform to be managed by the Regional Ministry. In this direction, there were not many comments during the Commission. The only thing that could be refined are the texts of art. 5c, which concerns the one-time return of the documents. The texts are too active and will have to be refined between the first and second votes. In general, the bill is very good and I also propose that the MPs be supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u37	Thank you, Mr. Shishkov. Are there any other statements?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u38	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The topic is very specific and few of the people, the MPs have the expertise. Both draft laws have their basis, although another amendment to the Law on the Construction of the Area is now with the figure almost 100. This makes it difficult to use the Law by all those organisations that have a bearing on its texts. One, the first law, is to strengthen state control over the quality of construction. This can be achieved with more effective control by the state authorities, by the DNC and with regard to whose powers the DNC are still incomplete. The provisions of the second amendment and supplement bill of the EP aim to increase the quality of construction when reducing the administrative burden within the investment process. I will probably repeat some things with my colleague Shishkov, but this means that all of us who participated in the Commission's meeting have seen the things that need to be corrected and supplemented at second reading. The Acting Zoo has one major and essential flaw. In addition, the project documentation and the building permit were approved under increased control and too reduced formal control during the construction process. Secondly, the efforts of the state independent construction control and the municipalities are focused on detailed and detailed checks and control of the design documentation in the phase of its approval and not on the stage of its construction and its adoption. This is one of the main reasons for the unsatisfactory quality of most of the constructions. Thirdly, the main focus is increasing responsibility and requirements for the members of supervisory companies. This is well-recorded, but there must also be requirements for experts at the DNCC because they appear to be the persons who control control control. In the event of an infringement, the Head of State Independent Construction Control may, by a reasoned order, revoke the building permit and approved investment projects, with the exception of those issued and approved by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. For these checks and opinions in art. However, no time limit is foreseen. And what about the minutes of the expert councils on management of the territory to the municipalities? The DNCC must check the administrative acts of the municipalities. Such an administrative act is also the permission to build and reports of consulting companies, as well as the protocol decisions of expert boards are not administrative acts. In addition, the amendments to this task from state building control will take an extremely long time, as the volume of checks is very high and it will hardly exist anywhere this engineering, expert potential in the DNC's divisions. This part of the Law must be refined very carefully at second reading, because it can lead to delays in the investment process, corruption practices and long judicial procedures. With regard to ensuring health and safety at work. This is an obligation of the contractors of the sites and the construction and inspection bodies. To involve the designers in charge of this process is untenable. It can never be predicted with design, drawings and schemes, possible risk cases at the construction site and predict them in the project. Texts in respect of sanctions under art. are also required to be refined. 232. The construction process is extremely dynamic and has many features in the organization of people, technology and implementation of technologies, as well as in terms of the diversity of construction materials that are involved in construction. So it is very difficult to sometimes make the optimal decision and what suits the financial opportunities of investors in terms of the offered materials. The sanctions, in my opinion, should not be self-inflicted. They must also be the result of the responsibilities assumed by the main participants in the construction and investment process. Both laws have their place, but I think it is essential to move on to the drafting of a new Law on Structure in the territory that will reflect all amendments so far and be able to benefit more easily than all participants in the construction and investment process. We will abstain from first reading when voting on amendments to the Law on Device in the Area, and before second reading we will make our proposals for optimization and precision of the texts that have been proposed for amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u39	Thank you, Mr. Dinkov. Is there anyone who wants a line? I won't. Mr. Ali, prepare to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u40	Honourable Members, the Law on Structure of the Area and the proposed two laws we of the Parliamentary Group of.................... the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.... at first reading will support, and we, of course, reserve the right between first and second reading to specify several points of the provisions that are proposed in order to have a really good adopted law. Here for years and especially since the last government of this government we are talking about e-government, e-government, especially now it is very relevant, given the pandemic that attacked us. We believe that in this direction we are working and success will be achieved, but so far we do not have any real positive results. The idea of this bill is to reduce the administrative burden, to allow companies and individuals not to go around institutions constantly and to enjoy the biggest bureaucratic activity in Europe, which is in Bulgaria, to make it difficult for them with these investments, which are generally extremely necessary for Bulgaria, given the investment intentions and on European projects. Whenever we make it difficult for them, of course, we give rise to corruption schemes. In order to avoid these corruption schemes, these two bills proposed by the Council of Ministers, we will support them and do our best to reduce certain articles in the bill. Honourable Members, we will support it not only because of reducing the administrative burden. This was also laid down in the programme of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. These all points plus other positive points that we're going to propose between first and second readings, we had them as a program. The pandemic forced delays in many investments in the country, delays and many such intentions in which investors failed, or the time limits of their building permits and other permits by institutions had already ended as a topic. In this regard, there will be deadlines in this bill to impose precisely the issuance of documents by the institutions within certain deadlines, which are in a positive direction, and thus there will be a possibility for investors to react and, if there is an incorrect or lack of documents, to be able to react and provide that documentation within the time limit to be granted their building permits. The supervisions in the Republic of Bulgaria so far have not done their job as they have been commissioned by the DNCK and the Ministry of Regional Development. What do I mean? Repair repair. There are many examples, I will not mention all of them by starting from highways, starting from roads, streets, construction, landslides, and always need the Ministry of Finance to allocate funds to repair repairs. This is precisely because of unacceptable administrative burdens, precisely because of incorrect supervision, precisely because of such individuals, in whom, because of corruption schemes, the lasting result is visible and instead of these funds being set aside for educational, social and other policies, especially now during a pandemic, we are putting them into repairing the repairs. This is unacceptable and I hope with this bill this scheme will end and we have a real law that allows investors to be calm and not to worry about their future investments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u41	Thank you, Mr. Ali. Are there lines? I don't see anyone who wants to. Mr. Bonev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, two are the bills for amendment of the EP, and I would like to note that the first bill, which has been tabled since August, concerns, above all, the activities of the consulting companies and the responsibilities of the designers. Regarding consulting companies, the Institute itself, which has been established and its functioning is regulated in the law, guarantees...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u43	Mr. Bonev, I'm sorry, is there a mistake? There's no bill filed in August. I won't. September is imported one, the other is October.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u44	One was imported on 25 August and the other on 12 October.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u45	All right, keep going.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u46	The responsibilities that are assigned to the consultants, and what is provided as an increase of the criterion, is a good direction. The thing that makes an impression is the replacement of the functions of the DNCC authorities. Just a year ago, we canceled texts that concern precisely these functions of the DNCC - replacement of issued construction papers. Then there was another long debate, debates that led to the annulment of art. It is precisely the replacement of construction papers by the DNC. Now, for some reason, this is coming back as a procedure that isn't right and shouldn't happen. In the Commission, we have repeatedly talked, including about the administrative capacity of the DNC. The DNCK representative said that the structure does not really have the full capacity to function normally. There was a lot of talk and the talkers said about the responsibilities of the designers. The imposition or increase of administrative measures against designers does not in any way guarantee a reduction of the administrative burden in law, it is in itself a nonsense. On the second bill, however, which, for the most part, amends quite a lot of texts of the LU, hiding behind the administrative burden, I will give another slightly different interpretation and a slightly different look, insofar as we do not in any way reduce the administrative burden, and texts of existing regulations or texts that have been used in practice for the first time are introduced into law. The texts on geo-defense facilities and geo-defense activities also make a special impression. I mentioned it in the Commission yesterday, there is one text that is, I would say, so controversial that I think it is not even necessary to enter at second reading, namely for the built geo-defense facilities on which it can be built. I'm making a reference to Aleppu. Analog is the case of an operational facility to which urban planning can be implemented. For those who are not in the sphere, I can say that if a facility is implemented, whether it is a support wall, coastal, strengthening, automatic after it is put into operation it can be built, built, built, built, but these are details of the bill. And we have many duplicate functions of both the consultant and the state institutions by additionally introducing the obligation to reconcile each investment intention with the Food Agency. We have changes in the design of the general redesign plans, the way of design, for the most part not even adopted by most municipalities. It is good that a platform is being created, it is good that it creates an electronic platform in which to upload all issued documents to the ZUT. The bad thing is once again that references are made to regulations that will be issued within a year, so I highly doubt that this institution will work at all as a way of transparency and responsibility. What has been done is the last two draft amendments to the LU, as if they are saying in themselves that the Law on Construction in the Area has already been exhausted from its capabilities. The law of construction on the territory for many years is already catching up with events and public interests, so I think it is appropriate to seek a new approach in design, in reducing the administrative burden. I will just insert one more detail in which we have had long debates about the issuance and conclusion of the preliminary contracts, which each citizen and each person involved or touched on the investment design, is aware that it is related to a tour of the ERPs, the companies concerned. Just a year ago, we adopted another amendment that they dropped, and now we're bringing them back. In conclusion, I would say that the investment design or investment process in construction is with the idea of creating a final product, whether it be a building or a facility, and is not in any way an instruction for assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u47	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Are there any lines on Mr. Bonev's statement? I don't see anyone who wants to. Any other speeches? There are no speakers. I'm closing the debate. We move on to the first vote of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Construction of the Area. Two bills submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 August 2020 and by the Council of Ministers on 12 October 2020. First, we vote on the first bill, No 002-01-39, from 1 October 2020. They voted 125 MPs: 95, against 2, abstention 28. The motion is accepted. And now I am voting on the second bill tabled by the Council of Ministers, with an I.D. No 002-01-49 of 12 October 2020 They voted 126 MPs: 97 against 1, abstention 28. The next item is: Debates on the questioning of BSP MPs on the structuring of the government's activities and policies in the field of health in relation to the exceptional epidemic situation associated with Coronavirus-19. This point will be considered at 11:30 am interrupting the session. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u48	Colleagues, let's get back to work. Before moving on to the next point, a declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group. Mr. Simov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u49	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! For the second time in two years GERB caused a crisis in BNR. For the second time one of the last remaining free media has been thrown into chaos, and Director Andon Baltakov asked to be dismissed from his post because the Ministry of Culture has incredibly arrogantly failed to comply with the Radio people's proposals for changes to the Radio and Television Act. This is now a targeted attack on BNR. Boil Banov seems to be in the way of the BNR because there is no other way to explain the obvious neglect of positions and the total neglect of the media of professionals. Even more disturbing is the fact that changes to the Radio and Television Act literally place a muzzle on BNT and BNR. The broadcast of silence on the air now receives a legal mask and becomes a government censorship. We don't accept the cancellation of the fund. Radio and TV in your scandalous changes. This is the fifth attempt to remove it. According to your new idea, the SEM becomes the administrator of the money for BNT and BNR. Thus you give power to an organ that has long sparkled with its incompetence and enviable putting. The changes to this law took place absolutely in the dark, opaque, and the working group on it met in absolute secrecy. No one has ever understood who is the author of the proposals, what is the aim of them and what is the opinion of the journalist's guild? This particular style of work and management is a generator of crises in public media. Even more arrogant is the fact that power also allows itself to fake the motivational letter of the Director of BNR, written for another bill, stitching it to his own premature child. What do we call that? This is a complete possession of BNT and BNR for the interests of government. BSP has always stood in diametrically opposite position. Two years ago, we had a proposal to make a fund of radio and television really working to guarantee the real independence of BNT and BNR from power. However, this proposal never reached the plenary. We have been critical of Andon Baltakov's actions, the CEM and anyone else who has allowed himself to violate the principles of freedom of speech. In this case, however, we strongly join the request for the resignation of Boyl Banov. He has long lost the trust of the Bulgarian society. His responsibility must also be borne by anyone who has taken part in this process in the dark by mastering national media by the strong of the day and putting on a free speech mask. Stop the violence with BNT, BNR and the worthy journalists in them, as well as with the entire Bulgarian society! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u50	Thank you, Mr. Simov. Here you are, Mr. Bikov.. a statement on behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u51	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We do not accept in any way the accusation that there has been political pressure on BNR and that there have been any symptoms of such in the last year. This is about something that perhaps neither you nor Mr. Baltakov understands. It's about a legislative process. A task force has been formed, as we know, which is no secret. It includes representatives of all media, organizations that are related to the media. As a matter of fact, this working group has developed a law in almost complete consensus. Secondly, of course, this law, drawn up by the working group, is being presented in public discussion at the moment. Once the public discussion is over, it will be presented to the National Assembly, where there will be first reading, between first and second readings can be introduced different changes and then there will be second reading. So we in no way accept ultimatums from anyone at this time, because the legislative process is still at its beginning. As far as we understand, the Director General of BNR is outraged at the fact that the draft proposed to increase the mandates of the Director-General of BNT and BNR and the opportunity to offer the boards of directors to the two media personally. We withdrew these proposals because of the protests and the political pressure that the Democratic Bulgaria and the other protesters, including BSP in front of BNT. When Mr. Vejdi Rashidov submitted these two proposals, then the protesters went to BNT and began to protest these two proposals. The reason we withdraw them is not because we think they are unreasonable. On the contrary, they give more freedom to these media and their guides. We supported them, and that's why Mr. Rashidov brought them in. Why did you protest outside the BNT building when they were imported?! That's what I don't understand! Why didn't Mr. Baltakov then come out to say that the proposals were actually reasonable? Then we were accused of wanting to take over BNT, that we want to impose censorship on BNT, without any consideration that these changes affect both BNT and BNR. Is that clear now?! That is why we have withdrawn these proposals. I believe that they should not be accepted until a new configuration has arrived in this Parliament. Perhaps Hristo Ivanov should pass them because he is the person responsible for media and freedom of speech in Bulgaria! His party is in front of BNT every day and puts political pressure on this television! It's his party that says who does censorship and who doesn't! As far as I can see, you are also joining this matter. With regard to the Fund of Radio and TV. Colleagues, and let everyone know that this fund has never worked! This fund has never worked! Because if it has to work, a fee must be collected by the Bulgarian citizens. Your proposal is that the state should not give the money to the CEM to work with them, and that the CEM should not go through the funding of public media, but through this fund. Just to create another body to administer public media. I don't think it would radically change things, except we'd hire another administration to deal with these issues. That is why we have not accepted this proposal of yours, but the debate, I repeat, is just beginning. If anyone wants to resign, let him submit it to him, it is his personal act, but we do not accept the accusation that this law is made in the dark. The slightest rebuttal for this is that it was uploaded a month earlier on the public consultation site and that thanks to this, each of us can express our position even before entering parliament. I think it is extremely disrespectful to all who participated in the writing of this law, and I repeat, they are mainly representatives of the public media, of course, of state institutions, including the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Culture. The ones because they are responsible for funding the media and the others because they are responsible for the possibility of these media working normally. I don't think this kind of suggestion will contribute to a good law. The main purpose of this law was to ensure that both media will not be in such a humiliating state to be declared almost bankrupt, as is happening at the moment. By the way, the BNR has been walking in a debt spiral in recent years, not only within the current director. That was the reason we were even dealing with this law. A lot of work was done. In this law, we are not merely updating the way public media operate, but we are largely synchronising the funding of Bulgarian public media with the funding of European public media. This debate needs a serious approach, not a revolutionary pathos. In no way am I absolutely certain that the experts will confirm it, this law does not affect freedom of speech. I want to see when Mr. Baltakov will say that he has been pressured in any way by any politician of the ruling majority after speaking this way? In recent months the Bulgarian National Radio is not just a public media critical of management, it is an opposition media and we have nothing against it. We have done nothing to stop this, although some of the leaders of the BNR come out of the framework of the Law, which obliges them not to make political comments within their programmes, but only to ask questions. We don't mind that! If anyone has a claim against us, let him come out and speak specifically to which member of GERB, which politician from GERB or from "United Patriarchs" has put pressure on the BNR. The only ones who are putting pressure on public media at the moment are the two political forces "Democratic Bulgaria" and "Bulgarian Socialist Party." They're putting pressure on public media. [[Applause from GERB]] They stand before BNT before Panorama to say who can visit there and who can't, what questions should be asked and what shouldn't be asked, who shouldn't ask and who shouldn't ask. We're not standing in front of BNT or BNR. What we intend to do is to enable them to function normally and to fill that space of free speech that has remained empty by private media, which have quite other problems. I hope that we will calm the passions and, in the name of having a normal functioning public media, reach agreement under this law, because such laws are good to be adopted by consensus. And this law has all the potential to be adopted consensus because it is reasonable! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u52	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. Declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the United Patriarchs. Mr. Simeonov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u53	Dear Members of the National Assembly, let me offer you something more positive. On 15 September 2016, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 15 September 2016 to 25 September 2016 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 15 September 2016 to 25 September 2020. The 43rd National Assembly adopted a decision to This is Hungary, and the day is October 19th, in which we celebrate the great Bulgarian saint St. Ioan Rila Miraclemaker, and a week later, the same month of 2016, the Hungarian Parliament did the same. The date connects the two countries because of the place it occupies. John Rilski in the history of Bulgaria and Hungary. In 1183, during another Hungarian-Byzantine war, Hungarian King Bela III took over Sredets, today's Sofia, and carried the relics of St. John Rilski in the then capital of Hungary Esthergon. According to the chroniclers, the relics of the saint perform a number of miracles, including causing the deafening of the Catholic bishop, allowing himself to challenge the sanctity of St. John Rilski. Impressed and disturbed by this miracle, King Bella III ordered the relics of the saint to be returned with a special delegation to Sredets. For four years now, our countries have celebrated this big holiday for us. We must admit that it was not initiated by the idea of Bulgarian or Hungarian politicians, but by the cohesive and patriotic Bulgarian community in Hungary. It overcame borders, bureaucracy and made it impossible for the heirs of the 19th century Bulgarian gardeners to realize their old dream. This year the Bulgarian-Hungarian Friendship Day was celebrated on a rotational basis in Hungary, but despite the limitations of the pandemic was crowned by a number of significant events. Bulgaria was represented by a modest parliamentary delegation. The day began with a visit to the renovated and expanded with the funds of Hungary and Bulgaria Bulgarian Cultural House, then followed a mass in the Bulgarian church. St. Cyril and Methodius. After the service in the church yard was opened a monument of Metropolitan Boris Nevrokopski, who initiated the church work and the first stone of the church in Budapest in 1931. Metropolitan Boris Nevrokopski was a true martyr of Christ's faith, killed by the communist power in Bulgaria in 1948. At the opening of the monument attended, notice, the Secretary of State of Hungary "Miklos Sholtes and Tamash Menzer, ministers, deputy ombudsman, MPs and representatives of the political elite. Mr. Scholtes and Mr. Menzer gave short speeches on the historical roots of the Bulgarian and Hungarian people and praised the extremely active self-government of the Bulgarian minority, led by the representative in the Hungarian Parliament Mr. Simeon Varga, Dr. Dancho Musev. Chairman of the Bulgarian Republican Self-government, and Mr. Dimitar Tanev. Chairman of the Bulgarian Society in Hungary. Immediately afterwards, the Bulgarian delegation was welcomed to the Hungarian Parliament by the Vice-President of the Parliament of Hungary. He gave a luncheon, which discussed current issues related to the membership of Bulgaria and Hungary in the European Union, shared the common same positions on the limitation and non-discrimination of migrants and refugees in the territories of both countries, and discussed the attempts to impose foreign and neoliberal ideas by the European institutions related to the same-sex marriages proclaimed by the Istanbul Convention, gender ideology disguised under the so-called rule of law. Later, the delegation was invited to a meeting of the Hungarian Parliament, which began with a congratulating speech by his chairman Mr. Laszlo Köver on the occasion of October 19th "The Day of Friendship between Bulgaria and Hungary." Then the word was given to the representative of the Bulgarian minority and to the parliamentary observer Mr Simeon Varga, who congratulated Parliament and our delegation in Bulgarian. The word was also given to the Secretary of State Mr. Miklos Sholtes, who pointed out the importance and contribution of the Bulgarian community to the history and the contemporary policy of Hungary by giving special thanks to the Bulgarian state. In the box of the Bulgarian delegation came personally the Prime Minister of Hungary Mr. Viktor Orban, who congratulated us with the holiday and gave warm greetings to the entire Bulgarian people. On October 19th at the National Museum of Hungary, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria Mrs. Ekaterina Zaharieva presented one of the highest awards to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, a golden honorary sign, to the leadership of the Bulgarian community Mr. Simeon Varga, Dr. Dancho Musev and Mr. Dimitar Tanev, as well as to the longtime lecturer Svetla Kyoseva. An exhibition of the Bulgarian alphabet was opened in the courtyard of the Museum. Despite the restrictions imposed by the measures against the pandemic, for a consecutive year the day for friendship between Bulgaria and Hungary was marked properly and solemnly, for which the Bulgarian community has a major contribution in Hungary, which for centuries maintains its relations and love for Bulgaria and which can reasonably consider 19 October as its holiday celebration of the Bulgarians in Hungary. Unfortunately, the Bulgarian state still owes our compatriots more political and financial, I stress, financial support from the Hungarian Government than from Bulgaria. We therefore declare that we, from the United patriots, will continue our patriotic work to assist the Bulgarian community in Hungary and will work to protect the interests and rights of all our countrymen abroad. The Day of Friendship between the Bulgarian and Hungarian Peoples! Thank you. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u54	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. I'll introduce you to a message: Today, October 22, 2020, has been received and will be sent to the Members of the National Assembly a General Draft of Draft Laws for amendment and supplement of the Law on Structure of Territories adopted on the first vote on October 22, 2020. The project is prepared by the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government on the grounds of art. 81, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We move on to: DISCLOSURES BY THE PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVES GEORGI MIHAILOV, GEORGI GYOKOV, GEORGI JORDANOV, TEU TASKOV, ORYAN TYMCHEV, VALENTINA BYDENOV, IBAN IBRISHIMOV AND AN ANNUAL VOICE TO THE MINISTER OF HEALTH COSTADIN ANGELOV ON THE WAY COVID-19'S WORKS AND POLICY OF THE GOVERNMENTS OF HEALTH WITH REGARD TO AN EXECUTIVE EMPLOYEMIC COLLECTED WITH COVID-19. The Members of the National Assembly shall be responsible at the meeting on 16 October 2020, Friday. At the same meeting 54 MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) submitted a proposal for a debate on the questioning, together with a draft decision. The debates are scheduled by the President of the National Assembly for the next parliamentary control meeting. The proposal for debate on the inquiry and the draft decision were sent to the Members of the National Assembly in electronic form on 16 October 2020. Which of the importers will present us with the proposal for a debate and the draft decision? Mr. Mikhailov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Professor Angelov, honourable colleagues! The subject of discussion, which today brings us together in this Chamber, was placed more than six months ago by the entire Bulgarian nation, and also by the society in the world as a whole. Let's call it a conditional statement, COVID-19, marks a mark on the whole world not only in health terms. It reflects with extreme seriousness all spheres of economic and social life, has a serious impact on the psycho-social climate, and literally on all countries of the world. For all these reasons, it is completely unreasonable to make calls not to politize the COVID-19 problem. Every government decision reflects in practice the view of the government in the solution of any problem related to this pandemic, and this is undoubtedly a policy. So today, gathered here, I hope that we will outline the tasks of a national health policy that will have an impact on all the countries of the nation's life. To be precise in our reasoning, first of all, we need to determine from a purely medical point of view the characteristics of this infection, its objectives, i.e. targets among the population, its virulence, palettes of clinical manifestations and its mortality. Since the beginning of the pandemic, sufficient data and characteristics have already been collected that determine the relationship of medical science to this type of infection. Next, we note that from the very beginning in the National Assembly a consensus has been reached on the importance of the problem, and we insist on stressing that precisely thanks to the Bulgarian BSP the exact parameters of the emergency situation and the need for all these measures related to it to be voted by the Bulgarian Parliament have been determined. Focusing on the medical aspects of the policy to control the COVID-19 phenomenon, several particularly important aspects should be considered. First of all are anti-epidemic measures involving border control, movement within the territory of the country and within the settlements, identification of contacts in public places, quarantine rules. Secondly, the medical echelonization of questionable patients or with a proven infection, which includes: the involvement of the hospital network and various types of hospitals; the readiness of the network of infectious wards in the country to address the problem; the location of strategic hospitals in solving the problem; the participation of general practitioners in the medical triage; the importance and role of health inspections in determining the path of the suspected patient until the final clarification of his clinical status; the establishment of a diagnostic network of laboratories, which will participate as quickly as possible in clarifying the status of suspected patients; and last but not least, the resolution of the problems of patients with chronic diseases. Thirdly, which proved to be the most important in recent days, the measures for the protection of medical staff when working in an epidemiological situation, including: distribution of participants in the healing process with a view to preventing personnel deficits; vectorisation of patient-occupation in medical institutions, with a view to minimal risks for both patients and staff; availability of sufficient and effective protective equipment. Looking at all these aspects of medical activity, we should definitely say that the institutions have certainly made serious efforts. At the beginning of the problem BSP pointed out that in the country an action plan was established in similar pandemic situations of the Council of Ministers in 2006, confirmed after 10 years, which determines the need for the establishment of a National Committee with the Chairman Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, and participants deputy ministers from all ministries. Unfortunately, unclear why, at the very beginning, the so-called National Operations Headquarters was created, which literally pushed several responsible and enthusiastic doctors to the nation, who, however, were forced to answer questions of public interest that were far beyond their capabilities. We know what happened. Now, with the coming of autumn, things focused on other personalities, without, however, practically the Council of Ministers, who is responsible for the operational management of the country, to create a body that has a real plan and to implement this plan in action, with a view to resolving both the health and the many other problems of the nation, and most of all, to achieve the effect of consolidating the nation at such a serious historical time. Instead of all of this from the beginning and so far express, half-hearted, conflicting decisions and often canceled in hours. Some of them became the object of ridicule by the nation, others permanently entered the nation's creativity in the form of anecdotes, but the final effect is far more negative. The nation was definitely loaded with distrust of such management decisions, and this is one of the main reasons for the serious tension that is being felt at the moment. One of the main questions to which we would like to hear an answer from Professor Angelov is why the recommendations signed by almost all European countries for movement of people in a pandemic were not signed by the Republic of Bulgaria? For all this, we will have time to discuss in the coming minutes, and the purpose of this discussion I hope is not to throw sacred accusations, Christomatian definitions, but to actually hold a serious debate and take a decision in the interests of the Bulgarian nation. For more than 24 hours, Professor Angelov, information about the idea of creating logistics headquarters is emerging in the public space. The BSP's proposal is clear and precise: let us stick to proven state-of-the-art solutions so that we can be as useful as possible at this very moment for our citizens. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u56	Where is the draft solution?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u57	The draft decision has been submitted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u58	Introduce him, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u59	I don't have it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u60	I'll give you the draft decision to present it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u61	The National Assembly on the grounds of art. 90, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 105, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Within one month the Council of Ministers will update and implement the National Plan of the Republic of Bulgaria to prepare for a pandemic. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u62	Thank you, too. I'll remind you of the timing. The time is exactly 60 minutes. In accordance with art. 105, para. 2 of the Rules for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly separate parliamentary groups are distributed as follows: Political party GERB I'm opening the debate. You have the floor for speeches. Here you go, Mr. Timchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u63	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Today, we are debating the most important topic of the CIVID-19 pandemic, how do state and public institutions cope, and what measures have they taken and implemented? We can talk a lot, but due to the limited time, I want to address two problems. The first problem is the footage. This is the most important and fundamental problem. He has many dimensions, but the morality of medical specialists comes first. How many infected medics and with what clinical symptoms are no one knows because they remain at their post at the cost of even their lives. The question is: is the sacrifice of Bulgarian medics deserved under the conditions of an unprecedented pandemic? Does society understand it and support it? I definitely believe that in this respect the state institutions are in debt to the medics of all categories. The debate revolves around the pathetic 1000 BGN, for which you have placed quite controversial conditions, practically difficult to fulfil. In this way you confront these colleagues against others who are repeatedly meeting with patients who are suspected of Coronavirus-19 in the home of patients, in the ambulance, in the general practitioner's office, in hospitals and medical centers, in pharmacies and dental offices, but do not meet your conditions for receiving the miserable additional remuneration. Do you realize that they willingly put their health and life at risk to their families, and in not a few cases they lose this battle? And one paradox after multiple shifts, practical quarantine of their jobs and extreme exhaustion at the end of the month, medics return home with less money than before the pandemic. Another paradox is that civil servants in regional health inspections receive different remuneration from their other colleagues. They receive an additional remuneration at three months, the last one they received in July. We have information that with your letter you have reached 80% of this additional material stimulus will not receive more, and it will not be in the time of the second wave of the CoVID 19 epidemic. A COVID-19 doesn't ask what employee you are a state or ordinary employee of RZI. The second question is about flu vaccines, Mr. Minister. Last week on our questions you have repeatedly answered that the question is foreseen and the necessary vaccines will be delivered within the time limit. From 180,000 yesterday, 70,000 were delivered to the pharmacies network, and we've already witnessed hysteria. The pharmacies are hell. More and more are prescribed by doctors with the necessary vaccinations. Motivated by social networks, a significant number of Bulgarian citizens have decided to be vaccinated and there are not enough vaccines. In this regard, I ask you, Minister, to do everything necessary to deliver the required amount of flu vaccines to the country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u64	Thank you, Mr. Timchev. - What's the line? I won't. We continue with the speeches. Here you go, Mr. Taskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u65	Honourable Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Honourable Mr. Professor! Ladies and gentlemen, I was thinking of taking into account the order for mandatory outdoor masks to be worn, or is this not in the background of open stadiums, pubs, chalgotecs and clubs? However, I believe that we have a much bigger common problem for both all of us as potential patients and for those who are doctors, namely: Is Bulgaria's health system ready to respond to this challenge? Does our country have a work plan and a system development in an emergency situation? Do people know what to do with the symptoms of the virus and what their way to health care is needed? We can see that there are frequent cases of patients who are literally being transported to medical facilities and refused admissions. There are also cases of lack of good communication between medical institutions. Other people because of the fear of quarantine, and this is related to not losing their income, or because of the lack of a financial opportunity to be tested, hiding for their condition. In the crisis, the number of uninsured health workers is growing alarmingly. Do we have a plan for how these people will be treated and who will pay for their treatment? To the medical facilities. I had the opportunity on July 30th of this tribune to say that so proclaimed thousands of beds on standby for taking cases, regardless of their medical equipment, are just beds without prepared medical specialists next to them. The problem may not be so pronounced for Sofia and some of the big cities, but in the province it is. Medical professionals also file requests for exits or are at a risk age. I ask: exactly what additional support did Bulgarian hospitals receive from the state? Is there a plan for how different institutions of competence will be secured with the necessary personnel? We saw the cases in Dobrich, in Gotse Delchev they are more, not to mention them. Is there an established medical standard of conduct and is it mostly observed when receiving patients? We often talked about dividing the flows according to complaints, triage, adequate disinfection of the medical facilities, really available and affordable personal protective equipment for the workers; about infectious wards and clinics and their uneven personnel provision on the territory of the country; about a long-term strategy with a view to removing infectious diseases from funding exactly under the Health Insurance Fund and so on. I believe that we will all go through this disease, but we also have the right to take care of our health and to be treated by everything else, both children and chronically ill and cancer patients. However, remembering that post-liberation Bulgaria, which experienced two national catastrophes, in 1928 was one of the first countries in the world to eliminate smallpox. So enough alogic signals and actions. A clear organization, mind and professionalism is needed. And I'm really asking you to remove the separation of doctors on line one, because that separates the word. In my opinion, so are all the surgeons of the operating tables, and doctors, nurses and nurses in the wards and clinics, and general practitioners, and doctors in the emergency portals, that is, all who are now treating us, and will treat us without fear or fear, for their calling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u66	Thank you, Mr. Taskov. - What's the line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u67	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, seven months ago, as early as April 2nd, I urged the government to immediately stop the insanity by which it mimics management in conditions of fighting the pandemic to close this headquarters, called the NIGHT, and to implement the National Plan of the Republic of Bulgaria for readiness for influenza pandemic. To be organised according to the National Pandemic Committee, headed by a deputy prime minister with specific composition and clear powers, so that the Council of Ministers and the National Assembly can begin to function fully with increased activity in accordance with the new realities in Europe and in the world, so that we can do what people have voted for us to do. A proposal for a decision has now been made: within one month the Council of Ministers will update and implement the National Plan of the Republic of Bulgaria to prepare for the influenza pandemic seven months later. Although late, such an offer is made. According to the current plan of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Committee has full powers because it is recorded: 1. develop the national policy to limit the spread of pandemic influenza; 2. coordinate the activities of the state authorities and connect with non-governmental organizations; 3. analyzes the epidemiological situation in relation to pandemic influenza, informing the Council of Ministers and the public, proposes specific anti-epidemic measures to limit the consequences for citizens' health. What happens now in the management of this crisis? Instead of having developed a national policy and clear action according to the situation in which we are placed, there is chaotic decision making, issuing orders, correcting orders and ambiguity about the future in which we will live, in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. There is discontent among our fellow citizens, and it will increase precisely because of the crisis in government and in the way it is managed, in the activities of the institutions and the attitude of the government towards every Bulgarian citizen individually. I am not concerned with the problem of the crisis in the economy, with the damage that the situation is causing, especially to small and medium-sized enterprises. I leave without comment because it is not up to you, Mr. Minister, and the concrete actions, the measures that should be the decision of the Council of Ministers, to support every Bulgarian citizen. It is important to note that when I made my call in April to comply with the regulations of Prime Minister Boyko Borisov, you were not in this responsible position. Now as Minister, I expect you to comply with the laws and regulations and to put this National Plan of the Republic of Bulgaria into effect for readiness for influenza pandemic. By your actions to end this chaos to increase confidence in the institutions of all Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u68	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Are there any lines? I won't. Mrs. Georgieva, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u69	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, you realize better than anyone that the personal responsibility of every Bulgarian citizen is the most valuable, with which the state managed to go through the terrible hell once. Only thanks to the behavior of the Bulgarians and the trust in the system and the institutions managed. The damage to the economy has not yet been measured. However, the damage to every Bulgarian is clear. Everyone has to protect both the health and the social system, but very important, and at the same time it seems to remain in the background, is the educational system, because all three can lead our country to severe, difficult consequences. I call on you to strictly observe and control all measures imposed, but most importantly, do not issue conflicting orders without logic, because if the trust of the people is lost with doubt, we will not deal with this time as we have already shown that we can. We can only do this together! Whoever minister makes the people an enemy in this situation does not risk their position, but risks the health, education and social measures of an entire nation! In this regard, there are many important issues that stand on the agenda, namely: what is the mechanism of action defined by the state, when establishing a person infected with a coronavirus that is part of a particular organisation, enterprise or company? Is everyone tested and the healthy are still working, or is the object closed or quarantined? We ask this question because it is very important to understand the order defined by the Minister, because on the territory of our country signal that different RGIs have a different approach. Our second question is: is a corridor provided for those infected with home treatment, for their regular examinations, researches and observations of the development of the disease? So what organization was created by the state to ensure that the coronavirus patients did not wait for a review of the same tail with a chronically ill person who just had to get a prescription? We would be very grateful if we could get answers to these questions. Thank you. [[Applause from the Bulgarian Rhodolists.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u70	Thank you. Any questions? I won't. Here you are, Mrs. Jaffer, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u71	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The unprecedented crisis of health, economic, social and financial causes the world to think differently, outside the tracks, and to look for measures that are working. I mean, in this debate today, we see precisely in a discussion not of whether seven months ago the government adopted the correct legislative solution to manage this crisis by asking the National Assembly to create extraordinary legislation at the time and not to refer to the National Plan for the Management of Flu pandemic. I said: crisis management. And today, in my opinion, the discussion should be held in this aspect.. Does Bulgaria properly manage the crisis we are in? Dear Minister, the system is overheating. Yesterday there was a statement by health professionals who said they were on the verge of professional burnout. People are exhausted. We do not expect miracles from you in terms of human resources, because this is a problem that has been at stake for a decade, but we still do not see any steps to solve the problem of the specialization of the deficit personnel for the Bulgarian system. However, we would ask you the question: do you think that there are adequate reactions of power to the rulers with the transfer of responsibility to the regions? Because yesterday a district manager called and said he didn't want to take that responsibility and accept powers that weren't even legally assigned to him. Yes, we witnessed how the National Operations Headquarters was first established. Then the Medical Council was established. Now your idea is to create a National Logistics Operational Headquarters, perhaps you can clarify what the functions of this headquarters will be. What people expect is to get an answer to the question: why do seven patients, even asymptomatic, have the state been closed, and 1300, which reports the information system every day, the measures seem much more liberal? These are questions to be answered and the doctors who work in the system. Medical professionals, expert advice are the ones who need to give their opinions on what measures should be taken. But the government, the politicians, are the ones who make the decisions and are accordingly responsible for these decisions. That is why we intend to ask you the question: how will you refine the funding? Because we do not consider it normal after seven months of the crisis, to have calls from social networks for donations for food, masks, disinfectants, for repairs to hospital rooms or for assistance, for financing laboratory apparatus. This has got to stop! From the very beginning, it was stated that 500 million would rule that other logistics headquarters................. what happened to these millions? These are our questions and we expect the answer to these questions. We see a point in this in order to move forward with crisis management and not with findings which, unfortunately, are becoming increasingly serious and increasingly worrying. Thank you for your attention. We await the answer to these questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u72	Thank you, dear Mrs. Jaffer. Are there any lines? I won't. Mr. Popovski, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u73	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! I'll be brief. I will focus only on three figures that are today's statistics from the National Headquarters. Today, for the first time since the beginning of the pandemic, we will pass 30,000 infected. Today, also for the first time since the beginning of the pandemic, there will be more than 1500 Bulgarian citizens in Bulgarian hospitals. Only 80 people are still in intensive care, although yesterday and the other day were a little more than we were approaching 100 people on controlled ventilation, which is very serious because you know that these patients are already between life and death. We have 1532 infected medical personnel at this time, which is also an alarming number. It is about 5% of the total number of infected. In other words, it means that in Bulgarian health institutions, whether in hospital and hospital activities, the anti-epidemic measures are not strictly implemented. As a working doctor, I'm telling you from line one. There are also sufficient technical means that are not used at the moment to disinfect operating, handling and other premises. Sometimes you see the plague of what cluster size it produces in some hospitals. Of these 1500 medical individuals we lost several prominent medical specialists, in my specialty, and Professor Hubchev from the city of Burgas, unfortunately. I can give a recommendation to the Minister through the National Headquarters a lot has been done, but there is a lot to be done. I say again, meticulously enough to comply with anti-epidemic and disinfective measures, especially in operating and manipulation rooms. Thank you. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u74	Thank you, Mr. Popovski. Are there any lines? I won't. Mrs. Slavova, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u75	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, colleagues! There's chaos in the country. People are scared and worried, and the Covid-19 cases are growing. On this background day after day the executive comes out with differing orders, instructions and calls. An example of this is yesterday's order, Mr. Minister, to wear masks in the open, on the one hand. On the other hand, the hard position from about a week ago of the Minister of Education during blitzcontrol not to ban school excursions and additional activities. Score. One simple example: today a bus with several classes from a Sofia school, where there is a COVID-19, goes on a trip, but in the yard the same ones with the other classes will have to stay away and masked in the evening while waiting for their parents. Today in Blagoevgrad I listen to the head of RZI yesterday there will be limits for PCR tests, today there will be no; yesterday there will be no directions, today there will be directions. The health protocols that you produced with schools and kindergartens do not comply in many places, and regional health inspections no longer have the capacity to carry out checks or to issue quarantine prescriptions or to carry out epidemiological studies, as the head of the Sofia Regional Inspection said today. School principals are alarmed to call dozens of times on the phones of regional health inspections without being able to reach them. You transferred the entire financial commitment for protection and materials to the budgets of schools and kindergartens, although in the middle of June your predecessor Minister Ananiev said the following, I give an example of the Regional Health Inspectorate making requests for personal protective equipment to a logistics coordination centre. And in that same month of June, after they had already opened the kindergartens, there was no request for personal protective equipment. Have you thought about why this is so? Three months later, our study has established a number of asked principals of schools and kindergartens no one is familiar with this procedure for requiring protection. Dear Minister, the beginning of the pandemic caught us off guard. There is no system in the state of health, education or social, which after six months of epidemic work effectively under the current conditions. Despite the many calls and warnings on our part, chaos continues in every sphere. Once again we call for order, calm the Bulgarian citizens with adequate action, not words! [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u76	Thank you. - What's the line? Any other speeches? Mr. Chakrov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u77	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Regarding the situation in the country about the condition of the Kovid epidemic is clear. It really requires adequate measures, but what you have said, Minister, and we share it, is that there is a serious problem which, of course, we do not say it to bring anxiety, tension to society. You are actually proposing a solution, but we would still like to hear from you what is the situation with medical staff, especially outside the district centers, because there have already been such cases in Blagoevgrad, recently and in Shumen. For Blagoevgrad came colleagues, mainly resuscitators who went to help. No one responded to Shumen. The patients are then reassigned to treatment in Varna. In general, in the municipalities in the province, this problem is very serious, even more so, given the ageing profile in the medical staff as well, starting with doctors at all levels that work in the healthcare system. There must be a clear vision. Dr. Jeffer pointed out in terms of specializations that we really need to have a clear strategy, clear estimates, on the part of the state to have concern and realization for such specialists as we need. My first question in this respect is is is is there a clear strategy and options for extra-hospital assistance to be transferred to our colleagues, doctors to help on the front front to fight COVID-19? Besides, the next thing that's worrying is about mortality. In an interview Professor Baltov, respected by our colleague, conducted an analysis, and you, by the way, have said that mortality is high in view of the ageing population, in view of the accompanying diseases, in the first place, the extremely high incidence and complications of cardiovascular diseases. In general, deaths are found to be going seriously late to seek medical attention. Perhaps it is necessary to do a very good analysis and profile to see why these patients go late to seek medical care? From then on, the chances of successful treatment are reduced. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u78	Dear Mr. Chakarov, please finish.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u79	I'm done, Mr. Chairman. In principle, I think it is time to consider having more infectiouss, more resuscitators, as well as other specialties that we need in view that the average age in the medical guild is now over 55 to 60 years old. This requires really very serious concern. But in the specifics, I hope that you will present us with the estimates on medical personnel that can be on the front front outside district cities and large hospitals, as well as on improving communication, timely dispatch, especially the heavier cases that require more timely treatment. In view of the outcome, the sooner diagnosed and entered for treatment, the better the chances of successful treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u80	Thank you. Are there lines? Any other speeches?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Professor Angelov, honourable colleagues! To put it mildly, I'm surprised... [[Noise and lines on the right.]] Some people leave some places, but these places don't leave them, Mr. Chairman. I beg you to bring order to the court! I am really surprised that colleagues from GERB at this very important moment, unless there is some tactic, extremely thoughtful, to come at the end and hit the press of the entire debate That's just for starters. I would like to draw your attention to a few things that impress me as a clinician, not as questions to you. You are a responsible person enough to make your decisions as far as possible one person can make them. I think that in our proposal, that is exactly what we need to have collective thinking here in order to make the right decisions. I will pay attention to a few things that impress us in the course of the pandemic in Bulgaria. In the spring of one of the consecutive briefings of the National Operations Headquarters was paid attention and this concerns the problem of triage and the echelonization of hospitals. Then they asked the chief operating staff why the largest national hospitals were blocked. Today, I see in the media a proposal I suggest you seriously reconsider it, all the hospitals in the country in Sofia were 90, only 13 were revealed here the question is what is the role of urban hospitals, so they are already blocked. "Pirogov" and other strategic hospitals, to have wards for COVID-19, Professor Angelov? This basically means the possibility of infiltrating this infection into all hospitals and subsequent blockage. I give you my personal opinion that this decision is extremely risky. There is an opportunity for it to be very carefully reconsidered and triaged in such a way that especially strategic, national hospitals are left to do their serious work. My second recommendation to you, as your colleague in this debate, because it is also legislative, it is also professional, it is also emotional, if you will, it is careful to reconsider when we are now talking so much about COVID-19.Is the diagnosis or not, what happens to the patients with socially significant diseases? Here I was impressed by the winner of the Doctor of the Year Award. He said something that very startled me that has sharply increased the shortsightedness of children forced to deal with remote learning. I have received many complaints from patients with cancer and onco-hematology that due to the blockage of the wards there is a delay in their diagnostic and therapeutic plan, this is the second question. The third most important outstanding problem, in order not to be very wordy, which has been put here by many colleagues, is the question of storing medical personnel. We have warned as a political force that this way of dealing with them has already been said in the declarations that have been cited here to health professionals and in the declaration of the National Patient Organization that the system is not prepared because the people working in it are not sufficiently stimulated. I hope this is decided now in some way, but we're also looking for a strategy. Otherwise we will lose entirely the interest of professionals in our highly responsible profession. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u82	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. - What's the line? We continue with the speeches. Are there any other speeches, colleagues? Mr. Svilensky's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is with you. I ask you to give the floor to the Minister of Health, as the form of the debate is a debate. We want to hear what the minister thinks about this. The Parliamentary Group has three or four more minutes to take the attitude. If you're going to close the debate, listen to the minister, and then just vote, there's no point in this debate. We're saving three or four minutes. We want to hear from the minister, and he can talk to us for an hour and a half if he wants to. We'd like to hear from the Minister of Health. That is the point of the parliamentary debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u84	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. This conversation has been conducted many times. Do not ask me to violate already established parliamentary traditions. The Minister will get the floor at the end. [[National Representative Georgi Svilenski, away from the microphones, insists the word be given to the Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov.]] We've had this conversation many times, Mr. Svilensky. There's no need to convince me. I will not violate an established parliamentary tradition. Thank you. Sit down! We'll continue with the speeches, colleagues. Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u85	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are in a question debate procedure that ends with a draft decision. GERB's parliamentary group accepts calls for consolidation of the nation, relying on the fact that this will also result from a consolidated attitude for responsible behaviour by all Members of the National Assembly, both by leaders and by opposition, and will support the draft decision which has been tabled in connection with this question, although the draft decision has nothing to do with the subject of the inquiry. Because the subject of the questioning is due to the current situation with the pandemic of coronavirus and the spread of the disease CIVID-19. And the draft decision that you have tabled and which we will support, asks the Council of Ministers to update and implement the National Plan of the Republic of Bulgaria for readiness for influenza epidemic. My fellow Members, I believe that everyone in this room as a result of the public's wide awareness of the coronavirus understands that there is nothing in common between influenza virus and coronavirus. If you have not seen the Plan that exists regarding influenza pandemic, I can remind you of some elements of the content of this plan because it describes examples of periods, phases and levels of influenza epidemic, laboratory identification of influenza viruses. Then there is talk of influenza vaccines, vaccine prophylaxis, medicines used to treat influenza. I think it really makes sense to update this plan, because the risk within the rampant pandemic of a coronavirus is serious and the flu epidemic is serious, and then we need to be ready to react and respond. I understand your addiction to the planning economy, but at the same time, the situation and the challenge of coronavirus have required all of us to be extremely creative and reactive. I am convinced, despite the fact that some take more credit than they really do, that we here in the Forty-fourth National Assembly showed unity when a decision was made to declare a state of emergency. This was a measure that was indeed an extreme challenge. We all showed responsibility when we adopted the first laws relating to taking measures to limit the health crisis and its consequences as socio-economic, and all actions, albeit criticised, at the beginning of the pandemic, showed that we enabled the health system to prepare for dealing with the coronavirus. The fact is that no country in the world has taken measures that prove to be 100% effective, nor the countries that have accepted the idea of living immunity, are currently reporting a decline in morbidity, nor the countries that have introduced severe restrictions, which has led to the fact that we are now seeing a rise in the diseased in almost all European countries. That is why I propose that we here give equal messages to society. I propose that the anti-epidemic measures be respected and that the MPs be an example of this. I call on all MPs in this House to put on masks to show the public that this is one way to limit the spread of the coronavirus. I propose that the measures for distance, disinfection and discipline be proclaimed in every speech of a Member of the National Assembly because, yes, the State has its responsibilities, but the personal responsibility of everyone to keep themselves and others cannot be replaced in any way by another commitment! [[Private applause from GERB.]] And especially that we have to protect those working in the health care system. My fellow Members, I believe that here the messages should be in the direction of support for all who are now saving lives and we should try to make sure that this is where a change in the public treatment of doctors starts. What I call on fellow doctors to do is not give mixed messages in society, because it confuses people. The other thing that confuses people is the politicization of the problem! Under no circumstances can a health problem be used for political propaganda, because this is unacceptable and can only lead to sad consequences......................... Let us show unity and maturity of the nation in this crisis, and this should result from such behavior and similar messages precisely from the Bulgarian Parliament. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. Are there any lines? Mr. Mihailov, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Professor Angelov, dear colleagues! I accept the willingness of GERB, of the government to support our decision, this is undoubtedly useful for understanding the Bulgarian Parliament in terms of the situation we are currently in. I would not like to get into controversy with my colleague Daritkova. We are not just supporters of the planned economy, but of having a plan that will be realistic. That was the point of our proposal. I was sure you'd take it as a flu pandemic. This plan can quite calmly, with the corresponding amendments, of course, be aimed at any respiratory infection. I hope you agree that COVID and the flu virus are respiratory infections. Not to mention the fact that such plans came into effect and worked when pandemic conditions entered with cousins of this coronavirus, which was now diagnosed, which appeared back in 2006, 2008, 2009! So we should not take to the word.. we take to the principle that there should be a single crisis management and this governance should be taken over entirely by the Council of Ministers, not only by the Minister of Health, but by all the responsible institutions dealing with all the problems associated with this crisis! As for the politicism, I will finish with this, Mr. Chairman, we have already explained to you, Mrs. Daritkova, every action in the country's management is a policy! So to stall by not talking about one thing or another in a political aspect right in the Chamber of the Bulgarian Parliament is absolutely unacceptable. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u88	Thank you. Another line? Mrs. Daritkova? He doesn't have an ass. We continue with the speeches. Are there any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u89	The Minister wants a statement!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u90	I'll give you my word, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u91	The Minister wants a statement before you close the debate!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u92	I'll give the minister my word, Mr. Svilensky. I'm closing the debate. [[Reply by National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u93	You're not the man! There's a guy upstairs for that! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u94	You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u95	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I stand before you, realizing all the responsibility I bear, along with the team and all Bulgarian doctors and nurses in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. And in the coulombs I told you that it is very difficult for me to understand politics when we talk about solving the issues of Bulgarian citizens in the context of a health crisis. I don't know what realistic plan we're talking about for COVID and what respiratory infection we're talking about. I don't know who's going to hold on to what and who's going to do what, but I suggest we hold on and hold on tight and only to science! In this regard, I would like to stress that influenza and COVID-19 are two completely different diseases that have nothing to do with each other, and in this regard I will do a comparative examination of the two diseases before you! First, etiology. In influenza, the etiology is known about influenza A, it is influenza B. In Covid-19 the etiology is known. As far as pathogenesis is concerned. In influenza, pathogenesis is known. In CoVID-19 pathogenesis is unknown in completeness. Regarding the distribution route. In the case of influenza, the route of spread is known. With COVID-19 the distribution route is almost known. In terms of diagnostics. The diagnosis of influenza is known and available. In the case of COVID-19, the diagnosis is known for conditions, namely the reliability of the tests carried out at the very beginning of the epidemic worldwide and the implementation of a successful, highly sensitive and sensitive test with proven specificity in relation to the performance of the so-called polymerase chain reaction. The differential diagnosis of influenza is known. The differential diagnosis in patients with CoVID is not fully known. The clinical picture of influenza is known. The clinical picture of COVID-19 is not known in fullness. The treatment, and here is the main point, with influenza is known. And in this strategy you are talking about, there is a clear and accurate treatment with three preparations. One of them is Oseltamivir, a commercial name Tamiflu, effective for type A and type B influenza, which blocks neuraminide receptors. Zanamivir, or the so-called Relenza, which blocks neuraminide receptors and is effective in influenza A and B. And Amantadine or Remantidin, the preparation that is effective in treating influenza A. Treatment for COVID-19 in the world does not exist! In terms of vaccines. There's a flu vaccine. There is no CoVID-19 vaccine. What realistic plan are you talking about when there are so many unknown things about COVID-19?! A realistic plan can only be made if we step on clear facts proven in medical science! For COVID-19 there are over 40,000 publications on accessible medical sites that only and only prove different theories around the world, but do not answer many questions that are sought out by the medical community! The most reliable studies are still missing, so-called metaanalysis related to COVID-19! In this regard, I believe that to make a plan similar to the Pandemic Flu Plan, which will step on real scientific facts and proven in medicine claims is impossible! Regarding the influenza epidemic plan. Yes, this plan is clear to everyone. This plan was adopted in 2006, it was revised in 2012, there are relevant editions issued by the National Centre for Infectious and Parasitic Diseases. So this plan can be updated. This plan clearly and accurately said, and by experts of the World Health Organization, that all countries will face the inability to deal with it, and this has been seen throughout the world! I hope that the paintings we talked about at the very beginning and in Bulgaria will not happen. When we talk about respiratory infection, Professor Mihailov, we should say very clearly and precisely: yes, we all know that COVID-19 is a respiratory infection, we all expected him to behave like a respiratory infection. But he wasn't acting like a respiratory infection in the summer and he didn't disappear, despite all the professionals who said this would happen! Now all we have to ask ourselves is, is the COVID-19 just a respiratory infection? With regard to the actions of the state you are talking about. I would like to assure you that all scheduled and applicable activities of this national pandemic plan that you are talking about can be implemented and applied where possible, but this plan concerns only the actions of the state in case of pandemic flu. We must tell the Bulgarian citizens clearly and precisely that there is no flu in Bulgaria at the moment. The flu will come in November, in December will spread and we expect peaks of the disease in January and February. And updating this plan would certainly help us to have active action during this period. With regard to the questions that were asked by the parliamentary tribune. On the fact that there is a letter from the Minister of Health RZI on the ground not to receive their employment and additional remuneration. That's definitely not true! Yes, you do. This is enshrined in the Law on the Civil Service, which states that, upon reaching 80% of the remuneration of the additional material incentive of the employees in the RZI, they can no longer receive remuneration. And that is exactly what will be changed right now. We have introduced a legal text to be changed so that the employees on the first line can receive the additional material incentives under the project with the thousand leva by the end of the year. There is absolutely no risk for any first-line employee of the RGI authorities who are civil servants not to receive their remuneration. There is no point in bringing unnecessary fear or tension into the organs of RZI, which are extremely burdened and which I worship for their day-to-day work and effort. Regarding the patient. It was clearly and accurately presented to all journalists at the briefing of the patient's path, where clear and accurate answers were given to all the questions asked by the journalists by the Bulgarian patients. With regard to the Plan for the Uninsured and who will treat them. Uninsured persons did not arise with COVID, uninsured persons in the country have from the very beginning when we have insurance. And the medical facilities in the country are clearly and accurately said to serve all uninsured persons when they enter the hospital and need urgent treatment. And then there are clear and precise rules on how and where funding for their treatment is obtained. With regard to the prepared medical specialists in the country. Yeah, we don't have enough trained medical specialists, especially infectiouss. Yeah, well, the state keeps announcing seats, but there aren't any candidates. And COVID-19 is exactly what the health system needed to show its integrity, completeness and real appearance. This isn't happening now, this has been happening for the last 20 years and you know it better than I do. Regarding infectious compartments in the country. All infectious compartments from 1 August will receive additional financial resources. The contracts with all infectious compartments have already been signed by the Ministry of Health and from 1 August they will receive additional funds to maintain 70% ready beds in them. Regarding the ambiguity you're talking about. There is no ambiguity only in Bulgaria, there is ambiguity all over the world because, as I told you, the unknown for the CIVID-19 are more than the famous. In terms of the education system. From that tribune, two conflicting things sounded. One of them relates to the need for measures for the educational system to protect students, that is to say, to bring them into an electronic environment. Separately, it sounded that these children who study in the electron environment are suffering from damage to vision and so on. Dear colleagues, I would like to tell you that for a month, a month and a half teams of the Ministry of Health together with teams of the Ministry of Education and Science developed clear and precise criteria which were presented to Bulgarian journalists in order to reach the public. These criteria clearly and accurately describe what is happening in each school, in each area at different levels of morbidity achieved in the relevant area and reached rates of presence of students in the relevant school with symptoms relevant to COVID-19. With regard to the mechanism and decision-making in individual schools, it is different in different areas of different schools. Yes, there can be no uniform approach, as epidemiological studies are being conducted by the authorities of the RGI and, depending on the results of these epidemiological studies, specific anti-epidemic measures are being taken. Why is the state in seven people closed, why isn't 1300 closed? Because at the very beginning, when it all started, there was nothing known. Because we're talking about a new virus. When we talk about a new virus, measures must be taken to enable as a result of these measures to prepare all systems in the country so that they guarantee the peace of all Bulgarian citizens. The medical staff situation outside the district centers. The situation with medical personnel outside the district centers is extremely serious. Of all my tours in the country that will continue, in the remote places from Sofia we have a serious shortage of medical professionals, both in terms of health care professionals and in terms of doctors. What can be undertaken and will be done by the Ministry of Health is precisely to facilitate the specializations under Regulation No 1, which will be reviewed. Secondly, we will have talks with the Rectors of Higher Medical Schools regarding universities, about spending the internship of Bulgarian doctors in this type of medical institutions and their recognition of pre-graduate internship. With regard to the possibility of extra-hospital assistance being transferred doctors to hospitals. I would like to say to you that we have taken the necessary steps to achieve and start talks between the individual representatives of the relevant doctors on the ground, by municipalities, together with municipal administrations, with the help of regional administrations on the regional level. Of course, it is a matter of desire and solidarity on their part. And with regard to the state, we will provide the necessary additional funding to conclude contracts with these people if we have to hourly, if we need employment contracts in any form to get their fair remuneration when they join side by side with their colleagues. There are no hospitals blocked, Professor Mihailov. There are hospitals that treat COVID-19. There are no hospitals closed because of COVID-19! Why all the hospitals? Because it is very difficult to use the opportunities of emergency medical centers to carry a hospital patient to hospital, because this is the only possible inter-hospital transport with the presence of a team in progress, in which the morbidity is increasing and many Bulgarian citizens need treatment. When I was traveling around the country, when I was meeting with colleagues who work in the logistics centers of the emergency medical centers, the so-called coordination stations, the regional coordination stations, I would like to tell you that the calls to the Bulgarian medics are extremely large. We can't afford one ambulance walking from hospital to hospital to accommodate one patient from this hospital to another hospital. Where a patient is diagnosed, there should be treated. The appropriate medical establishment must develop all described clear and regulated anti-epidemic actions, isolators and relevant places for the treatment of these patients. As regards influenza vaccines, they were also mentioned. In 2019, 120 thousand were imported to Bulgaria under the National Programme. - if you notice any of the side effects not listed in this leaflet, or if you notice any side effects not listed in this leaflet, or if you notice any A significant amount of vaccines remain unspent under this national programme because in 2019 the Bulgarian citizens' desire to receive vaccines was to a lower extent. However, following the National Plan, which implements the Ministry of Health in order to increase the rate of vaccination of the Bulgarian nation, 60 thousand were envisaged for this year. More vaccines, that is 50% more, are 180 thousand. vaccines under the National Programme. On the Bulgarian market were additionally inserted and 140 thousand will be inserted. the number of vaccines. The demand at the moment is extremely high. The search is now all over the world. We are aware that there is a greater demand for vaccines at the moment. What we have done since the day we learned that Bulgarian citizens have increased demand in vaccination pharmacies, the Executive Medicines Agency has clearly and accurately contacted the company that produces vaccines, asking to provide additional quantities of vaccines for Bulgarian citizens. At present, the demand for vaccines worldwide is with extremely high demands for each country. We have held talks with the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria regarding vaccines and we have the assurance of the Bulgarian government that at any time when there is a need for additional vaccines and such are available, Bulgaria is ready to provide for the Bulgarian citizens an additional amount of vaccines, if available, regardless of their price. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u96	Thank you, dear Minister. We continue to vote on the proposed draft decision. Vote 171 MPs: for 170, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We will continue with a question from parliamentary control to Minister Angelov. He is from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov Ivanov on the necessary measures to overcome the shortage of medical staff in the Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment. You have the floor, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u97	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, the current issue may be considered a continuation of the discussion held just now, but in particular it is for the "Shoumen Hospital" AD, which is under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Health. In relation to the complicated epidemic situation in the area, I can quote some data. Only today there are 47 newly infected in the territory of Shumen district. As of yesterday, there are 84 people in the hospital, two of whom are in the Anesthesia and Intensive Treatment Department. Of the total number of infected persons in the district there are 54 medical employees infected, which led to a shortage of personnel and inability to carry out urgent and necessary medical activities in the district hospital. In this regard, I ask you to answer me: what measures do you plan to overcome the shortage of medical personnel at the Hospital of Shumen, which is due to the pandemic of COVID -19? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u98	Thank you, too. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u99	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, according to the permission to carry out medical activities in 2018, the hospital has 16 rooms with 340 beds, five rooms without beds and clinic-diagnostic structures, and according to medical standards this hospital has 24-hour implementation of medical activities in all permitted medical specialties. In relation to the complicated epidemic situation related to the spread of coronavirus infection in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Hospital of Shumen is one of the hospitals that is defined by our order for the treatment of such patients. It is within the authority of hospital care management authorities to decide on the conversion of commercial companies, including the choice of which structures they will close or disclose, depending not only on the functionality and medical appropriateness sought, but on the need for 24-hour provision of the relevant medical activities. The emerging epidemic environment associated with the coronavirus is putting the resources of the health system to the test. The Ministry of Health is aware of the situation in the medical establishment. Personally, I have met with the executive director of the District Medical Headquarters in Targovishte. He was there with Shumen's district manager. From our information that we have from both the management and the official data that is published for the area through the authorities of the RZI, it is evident that the medical establishment is experiencing difficulties in forming medical teams for the services of the fixed rooms and the E.R., and the situation is further complicated after the arrival of the COVID-19. The management of the hospital has taken action and has called for assistance to other medical institutions for the temporary secondment of medical professionals. You know that this can be very difficult to do, of course, if the medical professional does not show desire. At present, a doctor is expected to be assigned to the Hospital "Shoumen" AD to deal with the situation if the management of the medical institution formulates several proposals concerning the posting of medical professionals and the regulation of interactions between medical institutions in the context of the pandemic crisis. What is possible to be done, and already working on this issue, is what I told you: the participation of students, their pre-graduate internships in support of specialists in hospitals and nurses, respectively, who can be involved in the process of their training, in helping their colleagues in medical institutions. I hope that the management of the medical establishment will take all necessary action, with the Ministry of Health ready to cooperate and help with all its capacity with which this is possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u100	Thank you. The line, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u101	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I see that you are familiar with the situation that will, unfortunately, deteriorate. [[Reply from the National Representative Lachezar Ivanov.]] I hope Mr. Ivanov gets the hang of this thing not replicate in the hall. Dear Minister, we see that the sick are increasing every day. Unfortunately, as I said in my statement, to date from this hospital there are 54 medical professionals who are infected, and my concern is that they will increase. My request, to the residents of Shumen, as well as to the medics, is that the Ministry of Health be more active in its role as a principal of the hospital, which is even if there is an opportunity to provide additional funds to increase the pay of doctors to be attracted by other medical institutions. Because, you know, in district hospitals, especially in the countryside, the level of pay is far below what is paid in some private hospitals. This is a policy of the country on which we need to work much more seriously in this direction and to consider especially in this situation of a pandemic of COVID-19. My appeal, not only mine, but also the citizens of Shumen, is to work in that direction. Also to keep in mind that the beds, as far as I can tell, are getting smaller. Currently there are 84 people who are hospitalized, and I know that there are negotiations in Varna to transport patients, but to think about it in this direction. Also to work because it is a commitment of the Ministry of Health, if you have to by a legislative act to be able to regulate relations between different medical institutions in order to facilitate the secondment of doctors that is what I have spoken with your colleagues at a place in Shumen. Because right now, one of the problems is this, because there is no legal basis for this to set foot on to oblige the directors in this direction to be more active. I am talking about one of the medical institutions, which is municipal property and sabotages this process, as far as I know and, at the risk of repeating it, to find a way to increase the pay of the medics in these medical institutions in the province. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-22.u102	Thank you. A hole, Mr. Secretary? There won't be. This also ended with the question to Minister Angelov. I will now introduce you to the parliamentary control reports for 23 October 2020: 1. Minister of Finance Kiril Ananiev will answer three questions from the MPs Krum Zarkov; Rumen Gechev; and Teodora Halacheva. 2. Interior Minister Hristo Terziyski will answer two questions from the MPs Georgi Gokov; and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov. 3. Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva will answer a question from the MPs Georgi Gokov, Vesela Lecheva, Violeta Jeleva, Milko Nedyalkov, Nadia Klisurska and Polina Shishkova. 4. The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva will answer a question from the MPs Dimitar Stoyanov, Valeri Zablyanov, Georgi Andreev, Krasimir Yankov, Lalo Kirilov and Nikolay Ivanov. 5. The Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov will answer two questions from the MPs Dzhevdet Chakarov; and Yavor Bozhankov. 6. Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova will answer five questions from the MPs Kristina Sidorova two questions; Dora Yankova, Lyubomir Bonev and Teodora Halacheva; Kolyo Milev; and Nikola Dinkov. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Desislava Taneva to three questions written by the MPs Svetla Bachvarova, Daniel Yordanov and Nikolay Penev; Svetla Bachvarova; and Yavor Bozhankov; and to two questions by the MPs Kolyo Milev; and Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov - Minister of Culture Boyl Banov to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Ahmed Ahmedov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova at one request from the MPs Nikolai Ivanov and Vasil Antonov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova to two questions written by the MPs Ahmed Ahmed Ahmedov; and Georgi Svilenski, Manol Genov and Dimitar Danchev; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev to two questions from the MPs Kristina Sidorova and Teodora Halacheva; and Smilyana Niva; and to two questions with a written answer from the MPs Teodora Halacheva; and Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Economy Lachezar Borisov to a question from the National Representative Rumen Gechev. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the answers to: - a question from the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov to the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev; - a question from the National Representative Irena Anastasova to the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev. In the absence of the country in the parliamentary control meeting, Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy and Minister of Tourism Mariana Nikolova will not participate. The next regular plenary session on 23 October 2020, according to the adopted work programme. [[PHONE RINGING]]
