ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u1	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! Colleagues, we'll try again in ten minutes. There's no quorum. Next registration "9.20 a.m. Discovered at 9:26 p.m.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u2	There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Dear colleagues, I offer to your attention a draft program for the work of the National Assembly. At the Conference of Presidents, we have made some changes in the arrangement of the points: "1." First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Environmental Protection Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 18 September 2020 2. First vote on the bill on wine and spirits. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 11 September 2020 3. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the BULSTAT Registry Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 28 August 2020, adopted on the first vote on 23 September 2020. Point 1 for Thursday, 22 October 2020 4. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Law on Structure of the Area. Importers The Council of Ministers on 25 August 2020; the Council of Ministers on 12 October 2020. Point 2 for Thursday, 22 October 2020 5. Debates on questions from the MPs Georgi Mihailov, Georgi Gokov, Georgi Yordanov, Desislav Taskov, Ilian Timchev, Valentina Naydenova, Ivan Ibrishimov and Anna Slavova to the Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov on how the activities and policies of the government in the field of health are structured in relation to the emergency epidemic situation related to the COVID-19 point third for Thursday, 22 October 2020, at 11.30. 6. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 28 September 2020 Point 1 for Friday, 23 October 2020 7. Parliamentary control. Please vote on the proposed draft programme for the work of the National Assembly. Vote 179 MPs: 120, against 29, abstention 30. The motion is accepted. Bills and draft decisions for the time 14 October 2020: Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Income Taxes of Natural Persons. Importer "Krasimir Jankov" and group of MPs. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Budget and Finance and to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Draft amending and supplementing the Law on Non-Profit Legal Entities. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Annual Youth Report 2019 Importer The Council of Ministers. Distributed to the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Education and Science, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, the Committee on Health, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. A bill to amend and supplement the Code of Criminal Procedure. Importer of the Council of Ministers. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs and to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Proposal for discussion on questions, No 054 -05-39, from 24 September 2020 by the MPs Professor Georgi Mihailov, Georgi Gokov, Associate Professor Georgi Yordanov, Dr. Desislav Taskov, Dr. Ilian Timchev, Dr. Valentina Naydenova, Dr. Ivan Ibrishimov and Anna Slavova to the Minister of Health Dr. Kostadin Angelov on how the activities and policies of the government in the field of health are structured in relation to the exceptional epidemiological situation related to COVID-19. Importer "Cornelia Nino" and group of MPs. Draft decision on a change in the composition of the Committee on Culture and Media. Importer Georgi Svilenski. Draft decision on a change in the composition of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. Importer Georgi Svilenski. To the President of the National Assembly To the Chairman of the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria Application By Chavdar Yordanov Velinov, MP from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria On the basis of art. 15, para. 3 in connection with para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly Madam President of the National Assembly, Madam Chairman of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. I hereby inform you that I am leaving the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. I declare myself a MP who is not a member of a parliamentary group. [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP]] My reasons for this decision are insurmountable value differences related to the policy, the way of management and decision-making, relationships and others in the BSP parliamentary group. Respectfully, Chavdar Yordanov Velinov. Communication: Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that in implementation of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces by its order has authorised the passage through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria of a non-military nature of an airplane with its crew of the Royal Air Force of Thailand. The authorisation is valid for the period from 19 to 23 October 2020 for a total of two flights to transport the Prince of Thailand. The order issued is within the competence of the Minister of Defence, concerning the assessment of the military parameters of the passage with a view to the defence of the country. On the issues concerning export control and compliance with international plantation regimes mandatory for the Republic of Bulgaria, the country's airspace clearances should be granted to the interested party after a positive opinion from the competent state authorities in this area. The Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The notification was received on 16 October 2020. No 003-09-88 and granted to the Defence Committee. Declaration please, Mrs. Anastasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u3	Madam President, honourable Members! The Parliamentary Group of the BSP for Bulgaria, the Executive Bureau and the National Council of the BSP strongly oppose the proposed by the MPs of the parliamentary group of the.............................. and supported at first reading in the National Assembly by the Parliamentary Group of GERB changes in the Labour Code................................................. Such changes have an important national character and a wide international response and should therefore be the subject of public discussion, in which to take part leading scientists from the field of medievalism and Bulgarianism. At the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences there are serious units specializing in the development of this wide-ranging and specific scientific issues. Moreover, in efforts to remove the definition of Slavonic in the proposed name of the holiday, we see short-sightedness and incompetence. This is what we find as an attempt to take away the Slavic and pan-European significance of Kirilo-Metodievo's case, saved and receiving its beneficial development in the Bulgarian lands. The Bulgarian Cyrillic school established in the Preslav Book School of Methodius has already been recognised in the European Union as one of the three official alphabets along with Latin and Greek. This Bulgarian Cyrillic is used by nearly 300 million people around the world. We express our full support for the position of the Kirilo-Metodiev Center, the Union of Thracian Companies, the Thracian Scientific Institute, the Union of Bulgarian Writers, the Union of Bulgarian Journalists, the Institute of Bulgarian Language "Professor Lyubomir Andreichin" at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences to remain unchanged because it is historically true and scientifically justified. Thus formulated, this name includes Bulgarian education and culture, their belonging to Slavic writing and Kirilo-Metodievo's work, as well as the established Bulgarian Orthodox tradition throughout the centuries. The proposed wording would put to a serious test the future of our education and would reveal a space for unpredictable attacks against the role and place that the Bulgarian language occupies in the panorama of modern Slavic culture. Such pseudopatriotic, but in essence nihilistic attitude towards our native verbality will ignore the historical merit of Bulgarian writing and literature for validating Slavicism as a specific and independent cultural community. This proposal is nothing but a continuation of anti-Bulgarian negativity policy [[Shouting from the O.P.: "Eee! "]] , conducted by the Ministry of Education and Science against the Young Generations. Falsifying the historical facts, reducing the contributions our country has made in European history, and replacing the valuable Bulgarian literature in the textbooks with political literary erzacs for years has become a targeted state policy. In the name of Bulgaria, which is recognized as a state of spirit, we strongly oppose the attempts to change the name: Festival of Bulgarian education and culture and Slavic writing. The official festive ritual system of Bulgaria should not depend on management mandates, should not be influenced by political konncture or party interests, cannot be subject to disparity by personal feelings or preferences. As a result of the suffering of our people's struggle for freedom, self-confirmation and identity, it must be a symbol of national unity. We call on the Bill to be withdrawn. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Anastasova. We continue with the first point of the program: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE Noise PROTECTION LAW IN THE ENVIRONMENT. Here you go, Mrs. Todorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u5	Dear Mr. Chairman, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that Mr. Nikolay Kanchev, Deputy Minister of Environment and Water, and Mrs. Silvia Dimitrova, Director of the Directorate for Environmental Assessment, Environmental Impact Assessment and Prevention of Pollution, be admitted to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u6	Thank you. I'm voting on the procedural proposal. Vote 167 MPs: 150, against 4, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. Please continue with the Environment and Water Commission Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u7	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe on the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act, No 002-01-45, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 September 2020. At a regular meeting held on 1 October 2020, the Committee on Environment and Water discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act, No 002-01-45, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 September 2020. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Environment and Water: Mrs. Mihaela Dotsova, Acting Secretary General, and Mrs. Silvia Dimitrova, Director of the Directorate of Environmental Assessment, Environmental Impact Assessment and Prevention; by the Ministry of Health: Mrs. Svetlana Yordanova, Deputy Minister, and Dr. Catalina Valkova, State Expert in the Directorate of Health Control. On behalf of the importers, the bill and the reasons for it were presented by Ms Dotsova. It stressed that the submitted draft is intended to ensure the implementation of Regulation (EU) 2019/10 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 June 2019 on the alignment of reporting obligations under environmental legislation and amending Regulations (EC) No 166/2006 and (EU) No 995/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council, Council Directives 2002/49/EC, 2004/35/EC, 2007/2/EC, 2009/147/EC and 2010/63/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council, Council Regulations (EC) No 338/97 and (EC) No 2173/2005 and Council Directive 86/278/EEC. The adoption of the bill will ensure: - enhancing public participation and ensuring the accessibility of environmental noise data by ensuring the dissemination of information in accordance with Directive 2003/4/EC and Directive 2007/2/EC (INSPIRE) ; - sufficient time to conduct public consultations in the preparation of the noise map action plans, and the period between the drawing up of the maps and the plans changes to two years. In this way, the fourth round of review or update of the action plans is postponed once and will be 18 July 2024, then every five years; - Regulation of how noise card information and action plans are reported to the European Commission by electronic transmission only in a mandatory repository. Some of the texts are related to the competence of the Ministry of Health, which received opinions from the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as the opinions of citizens. In view of this, Mrs. Yordanova expressed the reasons of the Ministry of Health for the proposed changes. Attitudes on the submitted bill took the MPs Ms. Ivelina Vassileva, Mr. Manol Genov and Mr. Atanas Kostadinov. Ms. Ivelina Vassileva expressed support to the draft on behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB, as it aims to synchronise Bulgarian with European legislation. With regard to the wording of § 6, in which opinions were received, he argued that they would encourage, in the course of the first and second reading, jointly between the Ministry of Health and the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria to clarify the texts so as not to create ambiguity for the municipalities in terms of their obligations concerning administrative procedures. Mr. Genov and Mr. Kostadinov noted that the BSP parliamentary group will not support the Bill at first reading because they believe that there are contradictions in the opinions received and some of the texts introduce a subjective approach to noise measurement. After the discussion and the vote held, the Committee on Environment and Water with 12 votes for................................................................................................... He proposes to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on protection against noise in the environment, No 002-01-45, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 September 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Todorova. Report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u9	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act, No 002-01-45, submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 1 October 2020, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed a Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Environmental noise protection, No 002-01-45, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 September 2020. Mrs. Silvia Dimitrova, Director of the Directorate for Environmental Assessment, EIA and Prevention of Pollution, took part in the Commission meeting, which presented the draft on behalf of the importer. The draft is designed to ensure the implementation of Regulation (EU) 2019/10 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 June 2019 on the alignment of reporting obligations under environmental legislation and amending Regulations (EC) No 166/2006 and (EU) No 995/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council, Council Directives 2002/49/EC, 2004/35/EC, 2007/2/EC, 2009/147/EC and 2010/63/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council, Council Regulations (EC) No 338/97 and (EC) No 2173/2005 and Council Directive 86/278/EEC (Council Regulation (EU) 2019/10), and is therefore included in the 2020 Action Plan with the measures resulting from the membership of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union. The amendment to Directive 2002/49/EC on the assessment and management of noise in the environment requires the amendment of the Law in order to avoid contradictions in the regulations at European and national level. The adoption of the amendments strengthens public participation and ensures the accessibility of environmental noise data as well as its harmful effects to human health by providing sufficient time for public consultation in the preparation of the noise map action plans, delaying the reporting period by one year. Thus, the period between the drawing up of the maps and the plans is changed to two years and the period of the fourth round of review or update of the action plans will be postponed once and will be 18 July 2024, then every five years. The method of reporting noise card information and action plans to the European Commission shall also be laid down by means of electronic transmission only in a mandatory repository. The necessary information to be sent to the European Commission will be determined by changes to the Ordinance on requirements for the development and content of strategic noise maps and action plans. The envisaged amendment of art. 16b, para. 2 is due to numerous cases with the application of the provisions of the Law in the case of sites located in the areas referred to in art. 16a, para. 1 of the Law, however, which stands more than 500 meters from the nearest residential building. In practice, this leads to the failure to comply with the requirements of the Law, namely to measure equivalent levels of interference in neighbouring residential spaces or those located in close proximity or adjacent to the object, a source of noise, due to the fact that there are virtually no such premises. During the discussion the MPs supported the need to prepare and adopt the Draft Law for amendment and supplement of the Law on Protection against noise in the environment. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 11 votes in the House, without the opposition and 6 votes in the House of Ministers, proposed to the National Assembly a draft amendment and supplement to the Law on Protection from noise in the Environment, No 002-01-45, submitted by the Council of Ministers, to be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u10	Thank you, dear Mr. Dinev. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Mrs. Evstatieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u11	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Noise is one of the main factors with adverse impact on the population present as unwanted or harmful external sound caused by human activity, including emissions from road, rail and air transport, from industrial installations and facilities and from local sources. Environmental noise indicators are physical quantities whose determination takes into account the degree and limits of discomfort of citizens exposed to noise. The competence of the Ministry of Environment and Water is the management policy, measures to prevent and control environmental noise. The Ministry of Environment and Water shall continuously monitor and control the application of environmental noise requirements. In the strategic noise maps and their development is the determination of the level of noise load in the environment by measuring, evaluating and mapping noise levels in the environment. It allows acoustic planning by designing action plans with a view to preventing and reducing environmental noise. The ultimate objective is to create healthy living conditions for the population and to protect the environment from noise by developing and implementing an integrated approach and measures to avoid, prevent or reduce it. The main objective of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act is to transpose the amendments to Directive 2002/49/EC introduced by art. 2 of Regulation 2019/1010 "Strengthening public participation and ensuring the accessibility of environmental noise data, providing sufficient time for public consultation in the preparation of noise map action plans. Regulation (EU) 2019/10 aims to update the management of information and to ensure a more consistent approach to legislative acts falling within its scope by simplifying reporting so as to reduce administrative burdens, improve the database with a view to future assessments and increase transparency in favour of the public. The amending European act is a regulation and as such has direct application. In view of the same amendment to Directive 2002/49/EC transposed into our national legislation by the Law on protection against noise in the environment, the Law should be amended in order to avoid contradictions in the regulations at European and national level. Directive 2002/49/EC requires Member States to develop periodically every five years strategic noise maps and action plans for all objects covered by them, namely: agglomerations with a population of more than 100 000 inhabitants; main roads through which more than 3 million motor vehicles pass per year; main railway lines with more than 30 000 crossings per year; main airports with more than 50 000 movements per year. Within the scope of the directive are seven Bulgarian agglomerations: Sofia, Plovdiv, Varna, Burgas, Stara Zagora, Pleven and Ruse. Regulation 2019/1010 amends the time limits for the development and reporting of action plans to strategic noise maps for all objects covered by Directive 2002/49/EC by one year, extending the period between the development of strategic and noise maps and their respective action plans in order to provide sufficient time for public consultations. In this way, from the fourth round onwards, Member States will have about two years between drawing up the noise maps and updating the action plans, instead of just one year as so far. For the next rounds of action plans, the five-year review or update cycle will be restored. Those deadlines are set out in the Transitional and Final Provisions and therefore a supplement to those provisions is required. A fundamental requirement of Directive 2002/49/EC is to ensure the publicity of environmental noise information, noise exposure levels from different sources in large cities and harmful effects for human health in long-term exposure to high noise levels. In this regard, all competent authorities need to maintain on their websites up-to-date information on the actions they take to reduce high noise levels, as well as to preserve the places where noise levels are good. This requirement is reflected in Bulgarian legislation through art. Article 9 10 of the Environmental Protection Act. Regulation 2019/1010 further requires Member States to ensure that information from strategic maps and plans is made available and distributed to the public on public access to environmental information. The provision of publicly available information is not a new obligation for Bulgaria, a novelty is the obligation to transmit the information only electronically in a mandatory repository, which will be created by the Commission, supported by the European Environment Agency. By adopting the amendment to the Law, there will be a correlation between European and national legislation. As competent authorities, municipalities, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications will be able to put clear conditions in the task of developing strategic noise maps and the period for developing the relevant action plans will be clearly defined in the Law. Given the competences of the Ministry of Environment and Water and the Ministry of Health for providing opinions on the developed noise maps and plans, the reference to European legislation will not be necessary as there will be compliance with our legislation. Accessibility to environmental noise data and its harmful effects for human health will be regulated in Bulgarian legislation. This would facilitate the finding of information and would guarantee the wide access of the public concerned to such data. GERB's parliamentary group will support the Draft and expects between first and second reading the Ministry of Health together with the National Association of Municipalities to refine the texts as it was said during a meeting of the Committee on Environment and Water. We have always followed a consistent environmental policy. It is important for us to transpose European legislation with Bulgarian legislation. Our top priority is publicity and transparency because we create peace and security for the public.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Evstatieva. We are continuing the debate. You have the floor for speeches, colleagues. A line to Mrs. Evstatieva? I won't. Any other points of view? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Environmental noise protection, No 002 01-45, submitted by the Council of Ministers. They voted 136 MPs: 95, none, abstention 41. The motion is accepted. Let's move on to the next point: FIRST VOICE OF LAWPROECTION FOR VIEN AND SPIRIT DRINKS. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 11 September 2020. Report from the Committee on Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u13	Dear Mr. Chairman, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please vote on the admission to the meeting for Engineer Krasimir Koev, Executive Director of the Executive Agency for Vines and Wine.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u14	We're voting on a tolerance regime. Vote 117 MPs: 115, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please invite the official to take his place as instructed by the Quaestors. Mrs. Belova, continue with the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u15	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Presenting: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on the Draft Law on Wine and Spirit Drinks No 002 01-44, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 September 2020. The Committee on Agriculture and Food discussed the quoted draft at a meeting held on 24 September 2020. The Commission's work was attended by Dr. Lozana Vasileva, Deputy Minister, Irina Lazarova, Director of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, and experts. Mr. Krasimir Koev, Executive Agency for Vine and Wine (IALV) Executive Director. Representatives of branch organizations were also present. On behalf of the importers, the bill and the reasons for it were presented by Deputy Minister Vasileva. The Law lays down the conditions and procedures for the production, processing, labelling, trade and control of grapes intended for the production of wine, wine and flavoured wine products, fruit wines and products on their basis, vinegar, ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin, spirits, spirits and the management and control of wine potential. The bill provides for public policy in the wine sector and for the production of fruit wines, products on their basis and vinegar to be carried out by the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. The conditions and procedure for granting authorisations for new plantings, replanting and grafting are laid down, and conversion of replanting rights. The assumptions in which authorisations for vine plantings are not required are also defined. The order for maintaining and updating an electronic public vineyard register of vintage producers, with the wine-growing holdings managed by them, and wine producers and vinegar producers, with their production sites managed by them is regulated. The categories of wine products, the type of wines are defined in accordance with European Union legislation and the types of vinegar, depending on the raw materials. The requirements for wines with a protected designation of origin and a protected geographical indication, varietal wines without a protected designation of origin and a protected geographical indication, wines without a protected designation of origin and a protected geographical indication are laid down. The procedure for granting protection is also laid down. The status of persons who produce and offer wine grapes and wine products, fruit wines and vinegar, as well as their obligations related to the annual submission of declarations and keeping of diaries, is set out. The authorised oenological practices and restrictions in the production and storage of wine products and the order for the experimental application of new oenological practices are regulated. Legal rules relating to the processing, destruction and embodiment of products produced by unauthorised oenological practices or in violation of the restrictions on their production and storage are included. The labelling and presentation of wine products, accompanying transport documents and the granting of a special guarantee on imports of wine products are regulated. State policy regarding the production and trade of ethyl alcohol and spirits of agricultural origin, spirits and trade in wine products, fruit wines, products on their basis and vinegar is envisaged to be carried out by the Minister of Economy. The rules for the production, technical definitions, the indication, presentation and labelling of ethyl alcohol, spirits and spirit drinks are laid down. Texts governing their import, export, description, presentation, labelling and marketing, as well as texts relating to testing laboratories and test methods are included. The obligations of manufacturers relating to the annual submission of declarations and keeping of diaries are set out. Specific definitions and requirements for brandy, masts and distillates for their production have been established. Rules for the production of spirit drinks with a geographical indication are laid down. The Ministry of Economy will keep public electronic registers of producers of ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin, spirits and spirits and a register of persons making imports, introduction into the territory of the country, production, sale, supply or supply of distillation facilities for the production of ethyl alcohol, spirits and spirit drinks. The order for their maintenance and update is laid down. The conditions and arrangements for recognition of industry organisations of producers and tasting committees shall also be laid down. In detail are described the control bodies and their powers in carrying out control under the Law. The administrative criminal provisions provide for penalties for infringements committed. The Commission received opinions from the Association of Bulgarian Radio and Television Operators and from the National Wine and Wine Chamber with specific remarks on the bill. In the subsequent discussion by the Executive Agency for Vine and Wine, the control regime regarding the supply of wine products was required to remain within the competence of the Executive Agency for Vine and Wine, as it is the state control body of which two laboratories notified by the European Commission are composed. The National Wine and Wine Chamber recalled that the criminal procedure against Bulgaria began in relation to the lack of notification of the law adopted in 2012. They noted that the new project has not been notified again, which creates a risk of a new criminal procedure. They noted that the passage of control over trade in wine products by the Executive Agency for Vine and Wine at the Ministry of Economy poses risks to the quality of controls carried out, as all expert and administrative potential lies within the structures of the Agency and its territorial divisions. From the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria, the Bill should go through a notification procedure before it is considered. They noted that it contained texts contrary to the Agrofood Chain Management Act, which defined the competent control bodies of the agri-food chain and their functions. They noted that the Commission for Consumer Protection did not have the capacity to carry out its replaced control functions and stated that they would refrain from supporting the bill. Following the debates held, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 10 votes for the Council of Ministers, No 002-01-44, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 September 2020, proposed that the National Assembly not adopt a bill on wine and spirits, No 002-01-44, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 September 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Belova. Who will present the Economic Policy and Tourism Committee report? Mr. President Peter Kanev. Here you go, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u17	♪ I can't believe under the bill on wine and spirits, No 002-01-44, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 September 2020. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting, held on 30 September 2020, examined and discussed the Draft Law on Wine and Spirit Drinks, No 002-01-44, submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests Dr. Lozana Vasileva The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Vasileva. According to the importer, the general objective of the proposed bill is related to full and accurate implementation by the Bulgarian State of the procedures for the adoption of the Law on Wine and Spirit Drinks, according to the legislation of the European Union. The updating of the national legal framework aims to implement regulation that complies with European standards and requirements. The specific objectives of the Bill are: - Expanding the wine markets within the single market of the European Union and around the world by introducing a system of measures to improve control over the production and marketing of quality grapes, vinegar, wine, fruit wines and products produced by them. - Creating a clearer, simpler and efficient wine regime, ensuring a balance between supply and demand, by introducing rules that guarantee equality of producers and simplifying the rules for keeping registers. - Provide a transparent, fair and timely functioning system for controlling new vine plantings and limiting their area according to the needs of the sector to a maximum of one percent of the vineyard potential of the country for the previous year provided for in Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013. - The use of reference methods for isotope analysis by facilitating the reading of the results of the analysis. - Achieve market transparency and fair competition in the production of grapes, wine and spirit drinks by improving the means of control over all producers, tracking the production process, ensuring a predictable business environment through the uniform application of the legal rules by producers. The Law repealed the Law on Wine and Spirit Drinks adopted in 2012, as last amended since 2018, and the rights of persons registered in the Register of Producers of Ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin, spirits and spirits under the repealed Act shall be maintained. According to the importer, the expected revenue will cover all the costs incurred in carrying out the activities provided for in the Bill and no substantial modification of the revenue-loss portion of the budget of the Executive Agency for Vines and Wine will be necessary. A preliminary impact assessment, as well as those required under Article, has been applied to the Bill. 76 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In its written opinion, the National Wine and Wine Chamber supports the Bill in principle. At the same time, he also expressed notes on the substance. First of all, this bill has not yet been ratified in the proper manner in accordance with the requirements of Directive (EU) 2015/1535 in the system of the European Commission. This means that the current bill bears the same vice as the repealed one. It is considered that the proposed draft lacks sufficiently clear rules concerning the functional distribution of competences, powers and representativeness of professional organisations in the sectors of "Lozarene" and "Production of wine products." [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u18	Please remain silent.. Especially the parliamentary group of BSP. At least respect the white hair of your fellow party boy! [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u19	The Executive Director of the Vine and Wine Agency explained that the bill has already been sent for notification to the European Commission. With regard to control over trade in wine and spirit drinks, the Commission will again engage in consumer protection. People's representative Rumen Gechev raised the question of not collecting fees for the services of spirits producers, which is not logical in terms of highly profitable business. Following the conclusion of the discussion and the vote with results: 11 votes for the vote, 8 votes abstentions and 1 vote against the vote, the Economic Policy and Tourism Committee adopted the following opinion: Asks the National Assembly to adopt a bill on wine and spirits in the first vote, No 002-01-44, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 September 2020
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u20	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Report of the Commission for Monitoring Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling. The President of the Commission will introduce us to the report. Mr. Angelov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u21	♪ I can't believe on a bill on wine and spirits, No 002-01-44, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 September 2020. At its regular meeting on 1 October 2020, the Commission for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling examined the Bill on Wine and Spirit Drinks, No 002-01-44, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 September 2020. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests Dr. Lozana Vasileva, Deputy Minister, Krasimir Koev, Executive Director of the Vine and Wine Executive Agency, Irina Lazarova, Director of the Ministry of Agriculture and Industry, Kalina Tuteva, State Expert in the Directorate of Pazarni measures and producer organisations and Milena Kirilova, Head of Legal Consult in the Directorate of Legal Activities and Law of the EU. The bill was presented by the Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Ms. Lozana Vasileva, who focused on the main objectives. The adoption of a new law is linked to the need to implement recommendations from the European Commission and the need to ensure that certain policies are implemented in the wine sector and in the field of spirit drinks. The Bill lists texts relating to the system for establishing a common organisation of agricultural markets in the European Union. This system aims to limit the increase in the number of new vine plantings by means of a safeguard mechanism based on an obligation to grant annual authorisations for new plantings up to 1% of vine-planted areas by 31 July of the previous year. The aim is to preserve the quality and authority of wines produced in the European Union. The Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry implements state policy in the wine sector and in the production of fruit wines and vinegar. The vine and wine executive agency shall exercise control over compliance with the requirements of the law with regard to vine plantings and wine products, fruit wines and vinegar. The bill provides for the Minister of Economy to pursue state policy regarding the production and trade of ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin, spirits of agricultural origin and spirits and trade in wine products, fruit wines and vinegar. The Law lays down the conditions and procedure for issuing authorisations for planting new plantings and replanting in the territory of the country. The assumptions that do not require the granting of authorisations for wine or wine products that are intended for consumption only in the household of the producer or by organisations producing wine only for internal consumption are also defined; when replanting by a producer whose estranged properties are for state or municipal needs, which have been planted with vineyards. For control purposes, the maintenance of a vineyard register containing updated information has been regulated. The bill regulates the status of persons who produce and offer wine grapes and wine products, as well as fruit wines and vinegar. Their duties related to the annual submission of declarations and keeping of diaries are arranged. The Draft Law on Wine and Spirit Drinks lays down the conditions and arrangements for the recognition of industry organisations of manufacturers, testing laboratories and test methods, control of the production and trade of wine products, ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin, spirits and spirits and the validation of the composition of tasting committees. Attitude on the presented bill took the popular representative Julian Angelov, who expressed negative opinion on the transfer of control of the wine trade by the Executive Agency for Vine and Wine to the Ministry of Economy, but expressed principle support for the bill. Following the discussion and the vote held: with 10 votes for the Council, without votes......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u22	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. I'm opening the debate on the bill. Anyone? Yeah, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u23	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! A whole new Law on Wine and Spirit Drinks is available. The reasons of the importers are that a change in the Law is necessary and it is related to regulations that need to be updated in Bulgarian legislation. The fact is that regulations are constantly changing, requirements and controls are increasing, but it is also the fact that these changes are minimal. The current Law on wine and spirit drinks, which has been notified and is in line with European regulations, not only with regard to the creation of vine arrays, but also with control, is a mechanism in place precisely for the prevention and development of the sector in the years. This is our first objection?? Why a new Law on Wine and Spirit Drinks? If we go in the direction that every regulation will require new laws, the National Assembly will surely become an active parliament, in which we must constantly propose new laws, and by the Council of Ministers. Our objections to the Law are in the following guidelines: First of all, in terms of motives. They are recorded so that the control and regulations in the wine sector, as well as the spirit drinks, return to traditional markets, are almost just beginning. Tell me a law adopted in the National Assembly that allows us to restore our traditional wine and spirits markets? Not that I know of. That's the first part of the law. Update methods of laboratory analysis This is a specific topic in which each body responsible for control, respectively, update the methods according to European requirements and also the budget opportunities in order to be able to make the necessary quality controls. So in the reasons, these two grounds for me are extremely extravagant and in terms of what and what questions the bill solves. What I think should be emphasised in this law is that we are breaking other laws in force. Six months ago, the Food Chain Management Act was passed. This law, which BSP did not in principle accept that it is necessary to be adopted and signed, described the powers of every single structure in the state of the agencies and ministries. This Food Chain Management Act states that the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, the vine and wine executive agency are responsible for the control of wine from planting vineyards to the final wine product, which goes on the market. We are now offered a change in this structure of responsibilities in this bill. The Minister of Agriculture will be responsible for vinegar. We have nine types of vinegar. If you do not know, you can enter the shops to see if there are nine, whether there are three, but it is the Minister of Agriculture who will be responsible for the control of vinegar and the Ministry of Economy will be responsible for the wine. The question is how does this control happen, where you do not know whether there are vineyards, what varieties, what wine is produced, what are its quality characteristics, which is the responsibility of the Executive Agency for Vine and Wine. Suddenly the Ministry of Economy through the Commission for Consumer Protection will carry out this control without the necessary laboratories and opportunities to do so?! This is one of the objections that, in my opinion, will create exactly the opposite chaos in the control bodies and not so much consumer protection in terms of what is being marketed. Secondly, and now there is a Vine House, and so far the Law describes its functions, the bad is that its functions are greatly limited in the proposed bill. Why? In my opinion, the reason is that unilateral decisions of the departments responsible in the sector will be easier and easier to pass and easier to implement. The law itself should be notified to the European Commission. That's not a fact. Literally a month ago or less he was proposed to the European Commission for notification. Colleagues, I'd like to remind you of the Food Act. From the adoption of the first reading of the Food Act to notification it has been two years and has not been made like people, because now I see a proposal for a change of the Food Act, because section one-one has not been notified. That is, this Parliament, if we look at notification procedures, at second reading, will not go in any form to the House to be voted on. Why we do this exercise is a question of increased difficulty at least for me, so it was in mathematics However, what will be created with the adoption of this new law, which is not even discussed with the general public, could create more problems. We therefore believe that this bill should not be adopted at first reading. If changes to the regulations are necessary, which is an obligation on our part to apply them, whether described in the Law or not, steps should be taken precisely in this direction. We will not support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other statements on the bill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The reasons for submitting the proposed bill are the arguments which require the drafting of a new Law on Wine and Spirit Drinks. However, I will focus on another aspect. The adoption of a new Law on Wine and Spirit Drinks is an important step towards upgrading and improving the legislation in force in this area. The proposed bill aims to provide a legal framework that complies with European law on production, trade and specific requirements for winemaking and spirit drinks products and high-alcoholic spirits. The bill also lays down rules for the management of wine-growing potential in the country, the production of wine grapes, by laying down the rules for planting, eradication and renewal of vine plantings, and their entry in the vineyard register. In line with the good traditional practices already imposed, this bill establishes the specific specific requirements for brandy, masts, as well as the distillations for their production. These definitions highlight the traditional nature of Bulgarian drinks and especially brandy. In the proposed bill, the rules for the production of spirit drinks with a geographical indication are laid down, the control bodies in the production and trade of spirit drinks are specified.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u26	Please keep quiet and order in the hall, please! We're looking at an extremely important bill, I'd say of crucial importance! A little more respect for the speaker!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. An important moment for manufacturers which eases their administrative burden is the reduction in the number of diaries they conduct and which record the data on authenticity, origin, category of goods and production manipulations. The new law includes texts governing the import and export of spirits to third countries, which will further protect Bulgarian and foreign consumers. My fellow Members, I would like to say to you that the bill is essential for regulating the development of one of the key sectors in agriculture, namely wine, because it depends on the free movement of goods and services in the field. And they, for their part, are the foundation for development and sustainability of economic units in the sector. Different opinions were heard in the Commission, there was a lively discussion. We all know that we MPs can take advantage of our right to submit proposals between first and second readings to be discussed with the relevant competent institutions and industry organisations and to make the necessary changes. In the Committee on Agriculture, we have always proved that we have a constructive dialogue in favour of farmers. It is because of all of this, honourable Members, that I call on you to support the proposed draft wine and spirits law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Dimova. Are there any lines to the speech of the National Representative Dimova? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u29	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We are indeed looking at a very important bill. I would like to announce in advance that the Parliamentary Group of the Committee on Agriculture will not support this bill as it did not support it in the Committee on Agriculture. Our main motives for not supporting this bill are several: Firstly, the bill did not receive support in the Committee on Agriculture, which is leading under this law, for various reasons. So one of the reasons not to support it is this one. Our second motive is in the way that the government chose to follow this law. It would have been much easier for the regulations and directives in question to be implemented in our legislation to take the form of a bill amending and supplementing the current law and not a brand new law, the procedure of which is clumsy, severe and hides many risks both internally in our Parliament and in relation to its notification. All the more reason not to support this bill, fellow Members, is that at this time this bill has not been notified by the European Commission. It is no secret to anyone that the current law also had such a problem and this amendment is required because of the lack of notification of the current law. Yes, you say: we have sent a request for notification, but that doesn't mean anything. When do we get it, do we get it, what kind? Nobody knows. By the way, the current law is only from 2012, and the latest changes to it have been made 2018. At such a rate of amendment of the laws, there is simply no way for producers or processors of grapes and grape products to comply with such laws. And now we come to the main dilemma in this law. This bill provides for the control of wine products to be shifted from the Ministry of Agriculture to the Ministry of Economy, provided that in the Ministry of Agriculture, in the vineyard and wine agency there are two accredited laboratories existing, there are a network built across the country as regional structures, there are inspectors who have a lot of experience, professionals, experts in their profession and the system is active, working and does not give any deviations. With this bill, a system in place, we change it and send it to the Ministry of Economy, where there is neither experience, nor professionals, nor laboratories, nor a network in the country to tour the inspectors. So a ready-made system we reorganize, which allows both for breach of processors and for lack of control, and at all for chaos in the system that we cause ourselves without anyone forcing us to. This problem could have been resolved in the conciliation procedure in the Council of Ministers because the Council of Ministers is the importer of this bill. The problems between the Minister of Economy and the Minister of Agriculture could have been solved in the Council of Ministers in the conciliation procedure. Now it appears that the National Assembly, parliament, is an arbitrator between one minister and the other! Dear Governments, solve this problem at Council of Ministers level, do not force Parliament to be an arbitrator in relations between the two ministers! I think the old order in which control is carried out by the Minister of Agriculture is better as a performance. Last but not least, it is illegal because the powers of the Minister implementing the policies in this area are regulated in the Agricultural Chain Act and in the Law on the Common Organisation of Markets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u30	Thank you, Mr. Abase. Is there any line to the statement of the National Representative Abase? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Sabanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u31	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The Group of the United Food and Agriculture Committee did not support this draft at first reading in the Commission precisely because of this fact the opinion of the leading Committee on Agriculture and Food is negative, that is, Mrs. Belova proposed that the National Assembly should not support this bill at first reading. Not only because all these things that colleagues Abase and Bachvarova said, but the most important thing is the notification between first and second readings. Given that we have a law in place, we will replace it with something that between first and second readings, after notification, may look in a radically different way and have nothing to do with what is currently written as texts in this law. Not to mention that the most fundamental and fragile thing in the new law is the transfer of functions from the Ministry of Agriculture to the Ministry of Economy, and it is unspokenly said that this problem will change between first and second readings. And we ourselves did not understand why we are doing the whole exercise, since the most important thing in the Bill will be abolished between first and second readings, and all the other things set out in the current law are actually in effect and every single text of the new law actually overlaps them. Very few, but very few differences are between the existing law and the new law. So I personally will not support the Bill at first reading, let the Ministry first pass the notification as it is supposed to, and when we have Brussels' support with the texts and with any remark that can be made, be reflected. There are enough experts in the Ministry of Agriculture to clear the texts, to offer them to us, and if it happens in this Parliament, if not the next one will examine it and accept it as it should be according to European requirements. And not here to talk only about regulations that ultimately do not have notification and have no application to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u32	Thank you, Mr. Sabanov. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other statements on the bill? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, colleagues said much of the considerations why we, too, will not support this bill at first reading. We expected that our fellow Members from "United Patriarchs" as well as the Commission said they would not support it. But I would also like to say some considerations relating to the opinion of the National Wine and Wine Chamber. See what they say in their opinion: once again, both at legislative and executive level, this important product law is subject to institutional and public discussion in the midst of the vintage campaign. Notice, when the public discussion is done, we have an ugly campaign. This shows the Agricultural Ministry's attitude towards this important sector for the country. Next, as the Ministry proposed a new bill, it was logical in the motives to give some data from the agricultural report relating to the sector. It wasn't done. So I'll tell you what the last agricultural report says. In 2018, areas with vine plantings in farms decreased by 1.1% compared to the previous year to 500 thousand. Dka, as you notice..... for nearly 150 thousand. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the European Social Fund, the European Social Fund, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the Cohesion Fund, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European If these matters are of a state nature in the reasons, the following should be recorded: "The adoption of a new law is caused by the need to ensure the implementation of the policy in the wine sector and in the field of the drinks in question. Notice, no state policy has been written. Next: The adoption of the new law is expected to ensure the smooth conduct of policies in the wine sector, in the production potential and control of its compliance. Notice, though, that there is once again a lack of state policy. Firstly, with the adoption of the new law, the following objectives are expected to be achieved: what Prof. Bachvarova also mentioned: a return of traditional wine markets and the establishment of new ones within the single market of the European Union and around the world. Secondly, the creation of clear, simple and efficient rules ensuring a balance between demand and the implementation of the wine sector. And thirdly, limiting the increase in the number of new vine plantings. Fourth, the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry is pursuing a state policy.. Note, there is a state policy in the wine sector with regard to the production of fruit wines and vinegar. From the reasons it turns out that state policy will only be for the production of fruit wines and vinegar. Finally, I would like to quote you from the agricultural report and the wine import data. Look at our neighbouring countries. The Republic of Northern Macedonia, if it imported 93,980 litres of wine for 2017 next year, this imports increased almost 17 times to 1,557 000 litres. Is this the state policy that the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry must have in relation to this sector? So with this new bill, we will not achieve that development of the sector. Therefore, on behalf of our parliamentary group, I declare that we will abstain at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u34	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. - What's the line? There aren't any. Mr. Angelov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u35	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I do not know for what reason it has affected Northern Macedonia or the Republic of Macedonia. I do not see any problem between the Bulgarian economy and the one in Macedonia interacting. That is exactly what it should be and to encourage our national policy, although Macedonia imports wine products, wine and so on. So this should not be a criticism of the Bulgarian state and the sector. On the contrary, two brotherly countries must work together and develop economic ties. There's nothing wrong with that. Regarding the bill that we are looking at, we also looked at in our committee, the main problem that we were actually debating was that the control and trade of wine products or wine is intended to be transferred from the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry to the Ministry of Economy. During the debates, I was under the impression that both the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry and the Ministry of Economy, as well as the MPs from GERB and other political forces, are of the opinion that the old situation should remain and control should remain in the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. I supported the draft in the Commission with this condition, and I would like to hear clearly and firmly from both institutions or the Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Food will remain the control in the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry and the Executive Agency on Vine and Wine, or will it be proposed to remain between the two readings. I categorically say that the United patriots will not support such a text at second reading, but at first reading our colleagues will vote differently, each against their views.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u36	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Member, I never put politics into what I say, what you felt I had some political banter towards northern Macedonia. I quote the agricultural report and will now complete what is written in the agricultural report signed by the Minister of Agriculture, not by Cornelia Ninova by the BSP. It says the following: The import of wine from third countries amounted to 2,515 000 litres, twice as much as the previous 2017, mainly due to a multiple increase of an import from Northern Macedonia. "This is recorded in the agricultural report. Notice that I was quoting neighbouring countries. Kosovo, if we didn't have imports from Kosovo in 2017, is 47,100 litres in 2018; from Greece, imports increased from 53,000 litres to 78,000 litres; from Romania it increased three times from 2019 liters to 7630 liters. That's what I'm talking about. I'm not talking here about any other policies, what you were referring to. Next, we will not accept the Law? this Parliament will not accept the Law at second reading, as you have learned from colleagues that there is a notification that can last two years. So this exercise today to look at the Law at first reading is meaningless, apart from those arguments that I and my colleagues have said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u38	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Mr. Angelov, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u39	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Georgiev, you are quoting data on imports into Bulgaria, but you are not quoting data on exports from Bulgaria to different countries. You say: I don't make politics, I don't make political decisions, but you are a politician, you are a representative of the BSP. Every statement you make is political, and when you give an example of a particular country, you have a political objective. If you had said total imports in Bulgaria were from countries of just about how many last year, this year or the previous year, yes, but you are focusing specifically on one country. This is your policy, which we cannot explain why you are doing it, but apparently some Cominternian decisions are still affecting you. [[Replications of the National Representative Rumen Georgiev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u40	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Any other statements on the bill? Mrs. Belova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u41	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that the submitted bill relates to the recommendations made by the European Commission for changes to specific provisions, as the current legislation does not comply with the European Regulation. Both in the Commission and today in plenary, in the speeches of colleagues, specific provisions are being commented and different positions are expressed accordingly. However, colleagues, we have a period between the first and second votes in which each of us can submit our proposals. These objections of colleagues mainly concern where the control should be - whether to stay at the Vine and Wine Agency or the Ministry of Economy. So, please, let us support the First Voting Bill, so that we have a longer period between first and second readings, each of us can submit our proposals and, respectively, at the second reading, adopt these texts that are in line with the European regulation, so that we adopt a law on wine and the vine that we can send again for notification and be approved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Belova. Are there lines? Here's a line, Mr. Sabanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u43	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Mrs. Belova! It is very wishful thinking that between first and second reading we can do this, we can do anything, but the notification between first and second reading cannot arrive!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u44	Thank you. Are there any other lines? I won't. Mrs. Belova, would you like to use the backrest? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u45	Dear Mr. Sabanov, on behalf of the GERB parliamentary group and the members of the Committee on Agriculture and Food, when a proposal is tabled between the first and second votes, the control to remain in the Executive Agency on Vine and Wine will vote and we will support this proposal. We are convinced that control should remain at the Agency for Vine and Wine.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u46	Happy ending. Are there any other statements? Mr. Apostolov, if you'd like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u47	Honourable Members, a rather serious controversy about a bill at first reading, but let us take into account something that the House may not know. These controversys and these conversations at the moment, or rather unnecessary words that have been said here, would not have been there if representatives of the Ministry of Economy had appeared in the Commission. Several times in the Commission's meeting we asked where the representatives of the Ministry of Economy were, but wouldn't it be possible that they were so... more God-like and didn't attend this meeting to defend their position as to why they would want control to go to this ministry? Mrs. Belova and honourable Members, if there is a firm line of action, that control will remain in the current form, as it should be, you will receive support for this bill. This is normal and this was our opinion in the committee itself.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u48	Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. Excuse me, Mr. Ivanov, I didn't notice you, you're a little late.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u49	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! To be honest, I listened with interest to the discussion at this time and found that the parliamentary group of GERB and of the United Patriarchs is once again turning this National Assembly into an experimental unit this time towards a department in the Ministry of Agriculture. [[Comments from GERB and OP.]] I am shocked by what is being said here: let us adopt a law that does not comply with European law, and then, if you see, we will fix it between first and second readings, we will fix it. I just don't believe my ears or my eyes what's going on in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u50	Do you have anything under the law to say?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u51	Yes, I will.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u52	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u53	That this law must be rejected immediately. Don't interrupt me, Mr. Chairman, because I'm going to turn him over...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u54	Well, when you're doing an analysis of statements...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u55	...in the manner of conduct, please. In the way of...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u56	You had a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u57	It's not a line, I have a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u58	You were entitled not to a reply, but to a commentary. We are currently looking at the Law on Wine and Spirit Drinks.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u59	I say the bill on wine and spirits is a mockery with the National Assembly. He shouldn't be taken to the point because he contradicts...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u60	Rumen said you'd accept it. You're gonna hold back?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u61	We're not gonna accept it because of these...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u62	Please keep order! Don't interrupt the speaker!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u63	You interrupted me, Mr. Chairman, first.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u64	Here you go, Mr. Ivanov, the microphone is yours! [[Laughter at GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u65	I really support what the Patriots have said that from a bill that should be discussed here calmly, it has become an outrage and madness. Believe me, this thing must be rejected at the moment, because the transfer of powers from a ministry to the Ministry of Economy is not the first time we see it. This happened in the Law on Weapons, Munitions and pyrotechnic means. [[GERB lines.]] And it's extremely controversial there. Now you're doing the same thing. If you want to unite all the ministries in the Ministry of Economy, okay, there's no problem, but this law that you're dealing with right now and you want us to accept it is obviously mistaken somewhere in its very essence, in its very creation and its philosophy is mistaken. So, colleagues, it is better to withdraw it and not do unnecessary work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u66	Thank you. - What's the line? Mrs. Belova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u67	Dear Mr. Ivanov, you have not understood what we are debating. None of the speakers have mentioned that the submitted bill does not comply with European legislation. On the contrary, we say that, on the recommendation of the European Commission and in view of the fact that the current Law on Wine and Vine does not comply with European legislation, the Council of Ministers is proposing the bill that we are commenting on today. So no one has said that the bill tabled by the Council of Ministers, which we are currently looking at, we know that it does not comply with European legislation and yet we want to vote on it. Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u68	Second line, Mr. Apostolov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u69	Dear colleagues on the left! Perhaps, Mr. Ivanov, you see some apocalyptic events here, chasms, burnt bridges between our parliamentary group and colleagues from GERB. No, on the contrary, we're talking about a normal debate because this debate has to be there, but you're turning it all into some kind of dream of yours. Apart from telling you that this law does not regulate consumption and who to consume from wine and spirits, but regulates the production and marketing itself. [[Laughter, comments from GERB, applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u70	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. Third line, Mr. Georgiev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Ivanov, you have rightly noticed that the philosophy of this bill is wrong, but perhaps you did not say that this bill will not bring any added value to these precisely for the Commission's colleagues know a few months ago they were with us. What did they say? They said they didn't see support from the state, I told you this, the law was discussed during the vintage. Here's your first reason. So, Mr. Ivanov, you've correctly noticed that philosophy is wrong. And what I said about Northern Macedonia, see, there is a development of the sector in the raw material chain there. From grapes you will produce wine.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u72	Mr. Ivanov did not comment on this topic. The line is dissent on the substance.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u73	Therefore, Mr. Ivanov, you need to develop this topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u74	A hole, Mr. Ivanov, would you like to use it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u75	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Belova, how do you know that this law is in line with European legislation when it has not received a notification and you will still be waiting to receive a notification of texts and explaining here from the stands how, see, between first and second reading we will wait for the Ajeba to notify it so that we can make things right? Do you understand what kind of circus you're putting us in here and what kind of nonsense you're dealing with? Mr. Apostolov, I apologize, but I really don't see anything, and that's the bad thing that I don't see, but I hear the direction in which the conversation is going and, unfortunately, that's what you're doing. What happens between you and GERB is a separate issue. The point is that here in the National Assembly you are currently creating anti-Law. That's the truth. [[Calls from OP.]] Mr. Georgiev, the issue is extremely serious and under this law the debate must be terminated immediately and withdrawn because we already have a law in force that this new law overlaps 80%. There is no logical explanation why such text is currently being voted and adopted, commitments are being transferred from one ministry to another ministry, which has no haber of all this subject matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-21.u76	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Are there any other speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. We are going to vote on the bill on wine and spirits tabled by the Council of Ministers on 11 September 2020. Vote 176 MPs: 105, against 62, abstention 9. The bill was passed at first reading. We've run out of agendas. The next meeting is tomorrow, 22 October 2020, at 9:00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
