ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u1	Good afternoon, fellow Members. Please, registration mode. Mr. Kirchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u2	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u3	Mr. Gurnevsky?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u4	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u5	Mr. Atanasov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u6	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u7	Thank you. Registered in the hall 121 plus 3 remotes becomes 124. There are a number of Members of Parliament in the Chamber who can decide. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Dear colleagues, after a brief illness last night our friend and colleague and MP from the third election district of Varna left us forever. Bow to his memory! Please, with one minute's silence, honor his memory. [[Everyone's up. One-minute silence.]] Thank you. God rest his soul! [[Replys: God forgive him!]] Honourable Members of the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the following additional points be included in the weekly Work Programme of the National Assembly: A bill for ratification of the Agreement to support the sale by and between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Sweden with the corresponding name of the company for the purpose of purchasing and delivery of a vaccine against COVID-19 to Bulgaria and the Agreement between the Kingdom of Sweden and the Republic of Bulgaria on the resale of a vaccine against COVID-19 made by the same company. Importer is the Council of Ministers. I propose that it be point two for today's plenary session 18 December. Draft Decision approving the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the conclusion of the European Commission and the manufacturers of medicines, prior Agreement on the purchase of vaccines in relation to the pandemic of COVID-19. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 17 December 2020. I propose to become the third item for today's plenary session. First vote on bills amending and supplementing the Law on Measures and Actions during the emergency situation, announced by the National Assembly Decision of 13 March 2020 and addressing the consequences. They are: Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on 10 December 2020 and Daniela Saveklieva on 16 December 2020. I propose to become the fourth item for today's plenary session. The project for a decision to open a procedure for the election of a new Director-General of BTA to become the fifth item for today and to start parliamentary control as soon as the legislative part is completed. Before we vote, colleagues, there is a procedure. Mr. Ivanov, come in. Given the upcoming vote, I understand you have some kind of procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u8	Madam President, before the upcoming vote, I propose a roll call procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Adlen Shukri Shevked is absent. Albena Vladimirova Naydenova- here Alexander Dimitrov Pawnov- here Alexander Ivanov Matsurev- here Alexander Koychev Ivanov- here Aleksandar Mairov Siddi-here Alexander Nikolaev Sabanov- here Alexander Petrov Alexandrov- here Alexander Rumenov Nenkov- here Aleksandar Tihomirov Simov- here Altimir Emilov Adamov- here Anastas Marinov Popdimitrov- absent Angel Iliev Isaev- absent Andrian Ivanov Raykov-- here. Anna Vasileva Alexandrova- here Anna Nikolaeva Slavova- absent Anton Konstantinov Kutev- absent Asya Atanasova Peeva- here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov- here Atanas Petrov Kostadinov- absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov is absent. Bogdan Emilov Botsev- absent Boris Vangelov Borisov- here Boris Petkov Kirchev (through the Internet) video conference platform- here Boris Yankov Yachev- here Borislav Ivanov Borisov- here Boryana Lyubenova Georgieva- here Bürhan Ilyazov Abase - absent Valentin Alexiev Nikolov- here Valentin Georgiev Lambev- absent Valentin Ivanov Radev- here Valentin Mirchov Milushev- here Valentina Alexandrova Naydenova- here Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov- here Valeri Simeonov Simeonov- here Vasil Milanov Antonov- here Vasil Tsvetkov- here Eyebrows Letif Rashidov here Velislava Ivanova Krasteva- absent Venka Kostadinova Stoyanova- here Vesela Nikolaeva Lecheva- absent Veselin Naydenov Mareshki - absent Veska Marinova Nencheva- absent Violeta Ruseva Jeleva - absent Vladimir Slavchev Valev- here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev- here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov- here Galya Eneva Zaharieva- here Galya Stoyanova Zhelyazkova - here Georgi Georgiev Mihailov- absent Georgi Georgiev Stoilov- here Georgi Dimitrov Andreev- here Georgi Evdokiev Markov- absent Georgi Zaprev Dinev- here Georgi Yordanov Yordanov- absent Georgi Kolev Kolev- here Georgi Nikolov Vergiev- absent Georgi Strahilov Svilenski- here Georgi Tenev Stankov- here Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski- here Georgi Yanchev Gokov- here Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova- absent Daniel Petkov Yordanov- here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova- here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva- here Daniela Dimitrova Maleshkova- here Daniela Dobreva Dimitrova- here Danka Evstatieva Zidarova-Lurtova- here Dean Stoyanov Stanchev- here Delyan Slavchev Peevski- absent Desislaw Petrov Taskov- absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov- absent Desislava Angelova Todorova- here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova- here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva- here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov is absent. Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov is absent Dilyan Stanimirov Dimitrov- here Dimitar Boychev Petrov- here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev- here Dimitar Velichkov Georgiev - absent Dimitar Ivanov Avramov- absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev- here Dimitar Ivanov Danchev- absent Dimitar Krumov Alexandrov- here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov- here Dimitar Stoyanov Stoyanov- here Dobrin Nenov Danev- here Donka Dimova Simeonova- here Dora Ilieva Yankova- absent Dora Stoyanova Hristova- absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev- absent Evgeni Genchev Budinov- here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva- here Evgenia Danielova Angelova- here Evdokia Slavchova Asenova- here Elena Vladimirova Angelina - absent Elena Stefanova Pesheva - absent Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov- absent Emil Marinov Hristov- here Emil Seraphimov Tonchev- here Emilia Veselinova Staneva-Milkova- here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin is absent. Errol Osman Mehmet-- absent. Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev- here Brought to you by Vassilev Iankov- here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov- here Ivan Dimov Ivanov- absent Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev- absent Ivan Nikolov Mihovski- here Ivan Stefanov Valkov- here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov- absent Ivelina Veselinova Vasileva- here Ivo Angelov Hristov- absent Iglika Ivanova-Subeva- here Ilian Angelov Timchev- absent Imren Ismetova Mehmedova- absent Irena Metodieva Dimova- here Irena Todorova Anastasova- absent Honest Vasilev Veselinov- here Ihsan Halil Hakke is absent Yordan Apostolov - here Yordan Iliev Yordanov- here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev- absent Kalin Dimitrov Vassilev- here Kalin Lubenov Velev- here Kalin Nikolov Popovski- here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva- here Kolyo Yordanov Milev- here Konstantin Veselinov Popov- here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev- here Krasimir Georgiev Tzipov- here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov- here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev- here Krasimir Mitkov Subev- here Krasimir Hristov Jankov- here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Cristina Maximova Sidorova- here Krum Kostadinov Zarkov- absent Krastina Nikolova Takova- missing Lalo Georgiev Kirilov- here Lilyana Drumeva Radeva- here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov- here Lyubomir Boykov Bonev- here Manoil Minchev Manev- here Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Margarita Nikolaeva Nikolova- here Maria Yordanova Ilieva- here Maria Yordanova Tsvetkova- here Maria Shtereva Belova- here Martin Stefanov Obreshkov- here Menda Kirilova Stoyanova- here Milen Vassilev Mihov- here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova- here Milko Nedyalkov Nedyalkov- here Mitko Kostadinov Polychronov- here Mikhail Ivaylov Hristov- absent Mladen Nikolov Shishkov- here Mustafa Sally Karadaye- absent Nadia Spasova Klisurska-Zekova- here Nelly Ruskova Petrova- here Nigyar Sahlim Jaffer is absent Nikola Iliev Dinkov- absent Nikolay Asenov Tishev- absent Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov- here Nikolay Georgiev Ivanov- here Nikolay Dimitrov Penev- here Nikolay Ivanov Tsonkov- here Nikolay Krastev Boshkov- here Nikolay Tsvetanov Sirakov- here Nikolina Panayotova Angelkova- here Nona Krasteva Yotova- missing Pavel Alexeyev Hristov- here Pavel Dimitrov Shopov- absent Petar Georgiev Kanev- here Peter Hristov Petrov- here Plamen Dulchev Nunev- here Plamen Ivanov Manushev- here Plamen Tachev Petrov- here Plamen Trifonov Hristov- here Polina Alexandrova Shishkova- absent Polina Tsvetoslavova Tsankova-Hristova- here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev- absent Radoslava Plamen Chekanska- here Radostin Radoslavov Tanev- here Ralitsa Trilkova Dobreva- here We have a quorum. We're continuing the hearing. Please vote on the procedure I have made to supplement the agenda. Boris Kirchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u10	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u11	Mr. Gurnevsky?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u12	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u13	Mr. Atanasov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u14	Yeah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u15	I can't vote for half an hour! [[Don't worry about it. Calm down!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u16	They voted 121 in the hall and 3 remotes became 124. There are 97 of them, against 5 abstentions, in Hall 94, plus 3 remotes. The motion is accepted. Please help Mr. Tachev to be able to vote. I'll read you a message. On 17 December 2020, the Council adopted Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the financial year 2013 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 2 of the National Assembly Decision of 13 December 2019 adopted in connection with the debates on the inquiry by the MPs Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova received information as at December 2020 on the progress of the implementation of the Action Plan for the implementation of the measures of the Strategy for Development and Management of Water and Sewerage for the period 2014 - 2023. The material was sent to the MPs at their e-mail addresses and is available at the Library of the National Assembly. Moving on to point one: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAWPROECTION FOR COMPLIANCE OF THE PUNCHED-PROCESUAL CODEX. The report will introduce us to Mrs. Alexandrova. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u17	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, No 054-01-110, submitted by Krasimir Georgiev Tsipov and a group of MPs on 3 December 2020. At its meeting held on 16 December 2020, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, No 054-01-110, submitted by Krasimir Georgiev Tsipov and a group of MPs on 3 December 2020. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Justice: Mr. Evgeni Stoyanov. Deputy Minister; and by the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria: Mrs. Krasimira Filipova Deputy of the Prosecutor General. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mrs. Dessislava Atanasova, who pointed out that it aims to create a new figure of investigating prosecutor to investigate the actions of the Prosecutor General, and that prosecutor should have the status of acting prosecutor with the full extent of powers under Bulgarian law, similar to the European Delegated Prosecutors under Council Regulation (EU) 2017/1939 of 12 October 2017, to establish enhanced cooperation for the establishment of the European Prosecutor's Office. This prosecutor is scheduled to have a 7-year term, to be nominated by no less than six members of the Prosecutor's College of the Supreme Judicial Council and to be elected by the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council by a simple majority. It has been noted that the presence of a prosecutor engaged only in investigations and investigations against the Attorney General will ensure his direct referral by competent authorities or citizens without being dependent on the receipt of information from the prosecutors or investigating authorities in force. Mrs. Atanasova pointed out that the requirements for this prosecutor are to have at least 12 years of internship, to have high professional and moral qualities, to have a positive complex assessment of the last testimonial and in the last 5 years, not to be imposed on one of the four toughest indictments. With the appointed seven-year term of office of the prosecutor for the investigation of the Prosecutor General, his work in the mandates of various chief prosecutors would be guaranteed, leading to the impossibility of potential influence in view of his future situation in the prosecution system. Candidates are scheduled to rise from at least six members of the Prosecutor's College within 7 days of the opening of the procedure, with the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council setting the date of the interview, which is public and intended for non-governmental organisations to be able to deliver opinions. It was pointed out that the selection of the first prosecutor investigating the Prosecutor General was intended to start one month after the adoption of the changes in the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Law on the Judicial Authority, until then candidates will be put forward, and after two more months the Supreme Judicial Council should make the choice. Ms. Atanasova added that the reason for the early release of the prosecutor, who will investigate the Prosecutor General, is established by the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council, such as disciplinary proceedings against the Prosecutor investigating the Chief, will take place in front of the Plenum of the Council. There are two types of punishments envisaged for the claim and dismissal as well as for the members of the Supreme Judicial Council. It is envisaged that the prosecutor, who will investigate the Attorney General, may appear only before the Specialized Criminal Court, the Appeals Specialized Criminal Court and the Supreme Court of Cassation. Ms. Atanasova noted that with the changes in the Code of Criminal Procedure, the new prosecutor is excluded from the internal institutional control in the prosecution regarding the decrees and refusals to initiate pre-trial proceedings and is not subject to supervision and methodological guidance by the Prosecutor General. Accordingly, it is excluded from the application of the similar provisions of the Law on the Judiciary, which govern the hierarchy in the prosecution and the institutional control. Ms. Atanasova stressed that the amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure were provoked by the Report of the European Commission on the Rule of Law from all recommendations and opinions of the Venice Commission, from the cases against Bulgaria in the European Court of Human Rights and last but not least are consistent with the expectations of the Bulgarian society for active and efficient judicial reform. On behalf of the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria Mrs. Krasimira Filipova expressed her opinion that the proposed changes are not necessary because according to the current legislation every prosecutor has the opportunity to conduct an investigation against the Prosecutor General. The Bill received a positive opinion from the Ministry of Justice. The discussion was attended by MPs Philip Popov, Todor Baychev, Yavor Notev, Christian Mitev, Krum Zarkov and Krasimir Tsipov. The MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria and Mr. Notev expressed their negative opinion on the bill, noting that the proposed provisions are impractical, insufficiently effective, with their adoption would duplicate the functions of the investigation and would not achieve the desired result. Members of parliament Hristian Mitev and Krasimir Tzipov said they would support the bill, as the debate on this issue has been taking place for several years and it meets the expectations of society and European partners. As a result of the discussion held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 12 votes for the Code of Criminal Procedure, No 054-01-110, submitted by Krasimir Georgiev Tzipov and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 3 December 2020, submitted by Krassimir Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u18	Mr. Tsipov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u19	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I will not dwell in detail on the motives that we have prepared with fellow importers in relation to this bill. I'll try to do a flashback. The theme of the chief prosecutor's accountability is ensuring independence of investigation in cases where he may commit a crime is debated in the public domain over the past few years. At the end of last year, the Council of Ministers prepared a Draft Law, which envisaged the creation of such a figure to guarantee the independence of an investigation against the Attorney General, in case he committed a crime, with the Bill envisioning the Supreme Judicial Council, the Prosecutor's College to elect the Chief Inspector of the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office. The proposal could also be made by no less than three members of the Prosecutor's College... [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u20	Mr. Tzipov, please hold. Guys, it's too loud in the hall! Anyone who wants to talk, please leave the room! Here you go, Mr. Tzipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u21	...and be elected by a qualified majority of the prosecutor's college. This bill, honourable Members of Parliament, was sent for a preliminary opinion by the Venice Commission, which gave its opinion and developed in detail the thesis that a more flexible approach to the interpretation of the so-called prosecutorial monopoly on the investigation must be found. In line with this opinion of the Venice Commission, honourable Members, and with the first report adopted by the European Commission this year on the rule of law in the Member States of the European Union, we importers in interaction, of course, with the Ministry of Justice, have prepared this bill, which is presented today to your attention. We firmly believe that such a figure should be created to ensure the independence of the investigation against the Prosecutor General in the event that he commits a crime, but we find it necessary to change both the procedure for the selection of this figure and the importers of the relevant proposal and the body that will actually carry out this procedure and will choose a candidate who meets the requirements set out in the Draft. Dear Members of Parliament, taking into account precisely the opinion of the Venice Commission and the Report of the European Commission on the Rule of Law, we strongly believe that such a procedure should be carried out, and I would like to announce in advance that we intend this bill to become a fact by the end of the term of office of this National Assembly and to launch, of course, the procedure for the selection of such a candidate. I would like to look a little more closely at the need to carry out such a procedure and the possible options that were discussed in the public domain after the adoption of the Council of Ministers' Bill last year. Various options were presented to the attention of the Magistrate community and the Bulgarian society. First of all, it was proposed to discuss the idea that this figure, which will carry out the investigation, should the Prosecutor General carry out an investigation to be either the Director of the National Investigation Service or the Inspector General of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council. The following circumstances should be addressed. In choosing the Director of the National Investigation Service, prosecutors also play a crucial role in the prosecutors' college. The latter shall be elected on a proposal from the Prosecutor General or on a proposal from not less than three members of the Prosecutor's College and shall be elected by a majority not less than eight members. With regard to the Inspectorate also in the public domain, as we importers believe that the Chief Inspector cannot be proposed as a candidate, to conduct an investigation against the Prosecutor General, as he does not possess prosecutorial functions under the Constitution and therefore requires a change in the Constitution if such an approach is chosen. Also discussed were possible options for creating an Adhok prosecutor to be approved by the Supreme Judicial Council, including launching the idea of a prosecutor who is at the end of his magistrate's career, or just over the age limit. But we felt as importers that these ideas could not be implemented without amendments to the Constitution, because this would mean giving such functions to persons who are also outside the prosecution system. The only option in this context is the designation of an active prosecutor for an Adhok prosecutor to carry out the relevant investigation. But in the end, honourable Members, the idea of chance in choosing one of these candidates does not fully meet the requirements for ensuring an independent investigation against the Attorney General. In order to ensure such a guarantee, any alert or complaint should be examined in depth and developed depending on the facts established. For this reason, we offer to your attention this bill, which envisages not less than six members of the Prosecutor's College to submit a proposal for the respective candidacy, with the difference with the Bill the Council of Ministers proposed at the end of last year, is that the candidates will be elected by the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council with a simple majority of not less than 13 votes from the members of the Plenum of the SJC. [[Noise.]] We believe that it is only in this way that independence can be guaranteed in the investigation of the Prosecutor General, in case he commits a crime such as, of course, the debate that will be held today in plenary, I suppose between the first and second votes and the second vote, will enable us to carefully discuss all the proposals that will take place. [[Noise.]] To conclude, Madam President, I would like to state our firmness as importers that we will do what is necessary and possible to adopt these changes, because we will thus respond both to public expectations and to the expectations of our European partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u22	Thank you, dear Mr. Tzipov. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor for speeches. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u23	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u24	Just a moment, Mr. Popov. Guys, one more time, please be quiet in this room. The noise is very loud, you're even distracting the speaker right now. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u25	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, we are witnessing another mess of the government after they have turned the theme of the Attorney General into a religious ritual and no longer dare anyone under the fear of forming a crushing public opinion to ask the logical question how can the Prosecutor General influence or violate the internal conviction of prosecutors' acts in the various prosecutions by appointing them, by firing them, by punishing them? This is within the jurisdiction of the Supreme Judicial Council, repealing, giving binding instructions in the exercise of their powers under the PPC for a specific case or their act. The PPC lists nine cases of powers of the Prosecutor General and the Prosecutor General, and they relate to cases outside the criminal trial. What does the Attorney General really do? What puts only the sky above it? This is the Law on the Judiciary and Art. 139. This is the instrument for unconstitutional intervention in the Prosecutor General's trial. Article 139, which was last amended in 2016, reads: "The Chief Prosecutor and his alternates, to whom the relevant powers have been conferred under para. 1 may, in writing, revoke or amend prosecutorial acts unless they have been subject to judicial review. "This is where the dog has actually been buried because of the fact that these procedural powers have been governed by a constitutional law and are absent from the Code of Criminal Procedure, there is also no order of appeal by the prosecutor whose act has been amended or revoked or of persons with legal interest therein. This text enables the Prosecutor General and his alternates to effectively influence, modify and revoke acts of prosecutors in specific cases contrary to their internal conviction. The process of limiting prosecutors' rights in violation of their constitutional functions and directly affecting citizens' rights began in 2006, continued with editorials in 2007 and 2016, as has already become clear. And now, with these crazy texts, everything turns into total chaos so that nothing can actually change. Well, I guess that suits the importers. How else can we explain their actions, which, instead of a solution to the question, suggest another nonsense? And this is done against the backdrop of a constitutional decision, which categorically states that the supervision of legality and the methodological management of the activities of all prosecutors carried out by the Prosecutor General within the meaning of art. 126, para. 2 of the Constitution shall not include cases where a prosecutor conducts an inspection, investigations and other procedural actions on an alert against the Prosecutor General. Why is it that none of you in charge comment on this clear unconstitutional provision of art. 139? Instead, we are offered chimeras in the style of investigating the investigator, sort of repairing the repair. So how long? I am not talking at all about the apparent unconstitutionality of the proposed texts. All of this shows a misunderstanding of the prosecution's functions. It is the figure that must protect the rights of citizens and the state without giving priority to anyone. The prosecutor is not the one who simply dropped some allegations in court without being convinced, and based on the evidence collected in the case, on the defendant's guilt. It thus undermines its constitutional function to protect, apart from the state and the rights of the citizen, against whom there is insufficient evidence to submit an indictment to the court. This is now a mass practice. Who is responsible for this? Who's responsible for bringing down the entire state's repression on one citizen, and then the court finds out he's innocent? Nobody! There are no regress claims against magistrates who have caused damage to citizens who have condemned the state under the State's liability law and the municipalities for damages. If we want to make independent prosecutors not only from the Attorney General, but also from illegal economic interests, the prosecutors are called by virtue of their duties to pursue, we have to lean on four pillars. The first pillar is the acquittal, then is the indictment, conflict of interest and access to justice. Regarding the acquittal. It is incontrovertible evidence that the prosecutor who brought the charge and brought an indictment to the court has violated the rights and legitimate interests of the citizen by failing to fulfil his constitutional obligation: to collect evidence and establish facts and circumstances proving and his innocence; facts, circumstances and evidence established in the court's prosecution and motivating his ruling with an acquittal; acts with an extremely high degree of public danger; a sufficient reason for verification by the Supreme Prosecutor of a criminal offence by him; and in the absence of such an alert to the Supreme Judicial Council for the examination of his professional capacity and the imposition of disciplinary punishment. In terms of incriminating. It's a defense against false accusations. This is the responsibility for allegations we make when it comes to crimes. I am not aware that there are accusations of incrimination in this connection, the accusing of committing a crime, of a tool for solving other, mostly economic disputes between the issuing country and the issuing country, and the prosecutor becomes an instrument in the hands of the issuing person. The subject of the inspection, which lasts for years and ruins his life and business, has no opportunity for protection, has no responsibility for the one who used to say his contacts for the execution of a criminal advocacy. We are witnessing a number of such cases, and the totality of them is the impunity of the complainant and the prosecutor performing the verification. Conflict of interest. For no one is the secret of the family in our justice system. The existence of an undeclared conflict of interest is not sufficient grounds for disciplinary dismissal and the initiation of an investigation. Example: when the lawyer wife appears in cases in the department of the relevant court, where the other spouse is a magistrate, or where in the same judicial area spouses and relatives carry out activities as magistrates, notaries, court performers, Syndicates, expert investigators. Access to justice. Correct the role of the human rights authorities of quasi-deeding agencies. The point of their existence is for citizens to receive justice a function which, unfortunately, society is not convinced that they are performing. Many citizens tolerate the violation of their rights because they have no means to meet the costs of a possible trial. This is particularly visible in both civil and commercial disputes. In force, unfortunately, is the rule that the people have formulated like this: "With stronger not fight, with richer is not judged! " These are the real problems of our justice system, not just another chaos you're serving us with a claim to solve them. The right is a system and the problems in it are solved by systemic action, a policy to overcome them and a reform plan based on the objectives set. Not by poking around where you want to like each other and hiding the lack of vision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u26	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. [[Noise.]] - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Yankov. Mr. Rashidov, please don't distract Mr. Kanev, Mr. Hristov, they want to follow the debate in my opinion. [[Radio and laughter among the mentioned MPs.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u27	Please, Madam President, more persistently bring order to this House!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u28	I'm trying, Mr. Iankov, but I guess it's no good! Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u29	Take your seats, fellow Members. Mr. Rashidov!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u30	Don't take my functions, Mr. Yankov! Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u31	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It is proposed by a fellow MP, apparently rushing this proposal, investigating a prosecutor to investigate the actions of the Attorney General. Such a figure so far does not exist. It became clear from the motives that it would clearly have to be reacted to because of the European Commission's report. What exactly is offered? A figure of an investigative prosecutor with a 7-year term issued by not less than six members of the Prosecutor's College of the Supreme Judicial Council. There were quite a few arguments regarding how this would allow this investigative prosecutor to be independent. And the most bizarre thing is that in the motives we read: The presence of a prosecutor engaged only in checks and investigations against the Attorney General will ensure his direct referral by competent authorities or citizens, without the same being dependent on receiving information from the prosecutors or investigating authorities. Until now, the work of the Prosecutor's Office and the investigating authorities has been questioned in so far as the regulation and regulations allow. This was announced by the representatives of the Prosecutor's Office during the discussion in the Commission that each prosecutor has the power to investigate information, criminal data and the Attorney General. Questioning that they will not benefit or will be limited in such an action in the presence of information questioning the work of the entire Prosecutor's Office. This may open up the possibility of a debate whether the Prosecutor's Office should be left in the judiciary, or whether the government should be a function of election by the National Assembly. This, of course, can happen after a broad consensus, a discussion, perhaps by a qualified majority. But this debate is coming up and it is very important. What worries us is the way this investigative prosecutor is proposed to be elected. Between first and second readings, we will make a proposal that is precisely to guarantee independence in nomination, a choice that will guarantee the future work of this figure of the investigating prosecutor. The Law on the Judiciary provides for a procedure for the nomination and election of members of the Prosecutors' College of the Supreme Judicial Council and this is from the General Assembly of Prosecutors, which is the widely representative body of the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria. The General Assembly of the Prosecutor's Office should broadcast the investigating prosecutor. The nomination and election of European prosecutors was omitted to be from this general meeting and the majority did not support the proposal. But when we are talking about an independent investigative prosecutor, we need to give him the opportunity to have the legitimacy of broad representation as well. This will guarantee his independence. I understand the desire of the ruling majority, including to wave a finger at the Attorney General. This is probably dictated by the upcoming elections. This is probably dictated by the discontent of a large part of the Bulgarian citizens who expressed it through thousands of protests. However, for the way an investigative prosecutor is proposed to be elected, I do not think that it will satisfy either the wishes of those who raised the question of the integrity and uncontrollability of the Attorney General and of the European partners. I call on the MPs to consider, above all, whether they can mislead that they are making some reform of the Prosecutor's Office with the proposal so made. I call on them to seriously consider and support the proposal that will be made: the General Assembly of the Prosecutor's Office to be the body that enables the independence and legitimacy of the future figure of the investigating prosecutor who has the function to investigate the Attorney General. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u32	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Baichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u33	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! 2,000 years ago, the Roman satirick poet exclaimed: "Who will guard the guards themselves? " and 2,000 years later received an answer with this bill. As my colleague Tzipov said: he is in a hurry for the end of his term of office, I would add that at the end of his term of office there is a law which is not particularly qualitative. In the course of the debate in the Legal Committee, we have been paid attention several times and said that this bill is proposed to satisfy and meet public needs, but I have never been able to understand what these public needs that need an investigative prosecutor. Six months ago, people were out on strike. They asked for the resignation of two people, Prime Minister Borisov and the Prosecutor General. In exchange for the resignation of Prime Minister Borisov received a new Constitution, and now instead of the resignation of the Prosecutor General, they are offered a bill by which, I would say, to put a decorative muzzle on the Prosecutor General, who will not have any dissuasive functions. What will this investigative prosecutor do after all? It is never clear from the proposed bill. Why would I say that? This prosecutor will be to the current Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office and the deadline for solving a prosecutor's file is one month. If this prosecutor gets a signal, but doesn't rule on the case file in order to initiate pre-trial proceedings, who's going to sanction him if he's practically the only God above him? However, if he considers that there is enough convincing evidence of a crime committed by the Attorney General, the period during which he is being investigated shall be two months. If it is factual and legal complexity, he should normally request an extension of the term from the higher prosecutor. Once again, we are faced with whom he will ask for the extension. Or he's gonna work, he's gonna watch pre-trial production for a few years in a row, then one, two, until his term runs out, and so he's gonna be happy spending his wages for seven years, walking costumes, standing in the spotlight and public attention, and he's not gonna do anything, because in practice he's not gonna have anything to do. I will also draw attention to the recommendations of the Council of Europe experts, which propose limiting the possibility of choosing such a figure from the Prosecutor's quota of the Supreme Judicial Council. The Venice Commission, in turn, proposes to offer and select figures with a legal profession other than the Prosecutor's Office in the prosecutor's quota. All this is being done in order to limit the possibility of the Attorney General's influence on the prosecutor's quota. Here we now come to the election of the prosecutor's college, which will elect and propose this investigative prosecutor.. six out of 11 people. I agree that six people will unite, and the other five, if they have a different opinion, what will they do?! They'll stand and clap, stand and raise their hand, but they won't be able to offer a different prosecutor. There is also a lack of the possibility of a sudden nomination to be proposed to someone else. In other words: if people were to strike against Ivan Geshev's choice, they will now be offered Gesho Ivanov and will have to vote for him and accept him as an investigator of the Prosecutor General. On the other hand, this proposal comes into circulation with the rest of our legislation, namely with the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, because, firstly, there is no such figure under the Constitution, and secondly, the Prosecutor General oversees his subordinates and the work of the entire prosecution. Thirdly, there is a decision of the Constitutional Court that says that any prosecutor can investigate the Attorney General, or in other words, we are once again going back to replicating and multiplying the model of the current Prosecutor General. Colleagues, the problem is not so much the figure that will be chosen. The problem is in the uncontrolled work of the Prosecutor General and in general of the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria, because it can decide to whom to press charges and to whom not, without being subject to control. I immediately give an example of the executive authority how the acts of the mayor and the municipal council are subject to control by the respective district prosecutor, but not vice versa, and the acts of the Prosecutor's Office are examined and monitored only by the higher authority. Dear colleagues, we cannot support this proposal because it is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, the model of Ivan Geshev is reproduced through the investigative prosecutor Gesho Ivanov and the investigator of the Prosecutor General does not balance the factual inaccessibility of the current Prosecutor General. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u34	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. Are there any lines? We continue with the speeches. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u35	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure are provoked by the Report of the European Commission on the Rule of Law, by the implementation of the recommendations of the Cooperation and Verification Mechanism of the European Union, by all the recommendations and opinions of the Venice Commission, by the cases against Bulgaria in the European Court of Human Rights, and last but not least are in line with the expectations of the Bulgarian society for active and efficient judicial reform. The legal changes relating to investigations against the Prosecutor General are in line with a recommendation of the Support Office for Structural Reforms to the European Commission concerning the reform of the Prosecutor's Office and its interaction with other institutions, including the Mechanism for taking account of the progress made to the general public. After Bulgaria's adoption into the European Union and the country's phased integration into European political structures on the agenda, the issues of improving the regulations on a European model, deepening the reform process and adopting higher standards of protection for human rights and the rule of law have been raised. In connection with various interpretations and fluctuations in both legal and political circles and in view of the draft Law on the supplement of the Code of Criminal Procedure on 18 December 2019. The Council of Ministers adopted a decision to make a request to the Constitutional Court to give mandatory interpretation of the provisions of art. 126, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, where the following specific question is formulated: in the supervision of legality and methodological management of the activities of all prosecutors carried out by the Prosecutor General under art. 126, para. 2 of the Constitution, does it include cases where a prosecutor carries out checks, investigations and other procedural actions on alerts against the Prosecutor General, given the generally accepted legal principle, no one can judge himself as an element of the rule of law? In accordance with the Constitutional case, No 15 of 2019, the Constitutional Court ruled by Decision No 11 of 23 July 2020, under which the supervision of legality and methodological management of the activities of all prosecutors carried out by the Prosecutor General within the meaning of art. 126, para. 2 of the Constitution shall not include cases where a prosecutor carries out checks, investigations and other procedural actions on alerts against the Prosecutor General. In view of the Constitutional Court's decision on 3 December 2020, a Draft Law on the supplement of the Code of Criminal Procedure was introduced to the National Assembly, which aims to create the figure of investigating prosecutor to investigate the actions of the Prosecutor General, and that prosecutor should have the status of acting prosecutor with the full extent of powers under the Bulgarian law, similar to the European Delegated Prosecutors under Council Regulation (EU)2017/1939 of 12 October 2017 establishing enhanced cooperation for the creation of a European Prosecutor's Office. This prosecutor is scheduled to have a 7-year term, to be nominated by no less than six members of the Prosecutor's College of the Supreme Judicial Council, and to be elected by the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council by a simple majority, thus involving members of the Supreme Judicial Council's judges. The presence of a prosecutor engaged only in checks and investigations against the Prosecutor General will ensure that he is directly referred to by competent authorities or by citizens, without being dependent on receiving information from the prosecutors or investigating authorities in force. The requirements for this prosecutor are to have at least 12 years of experience, to have high professional and moral qualities, to have a positive complex assessment, to have a very good opinion from the last attestation, and not to have any of the four severed disciplinary penalties: a reduction in rank, a reduction in office, a dismissal as an administrative manager or a replacement for one or a disciplinary dismissal in the last five years. With the appointed 7-year term of office of the prosecutor for the investigation of the Prosecutor General, his work in the mandates of various chief prosecutors would be guaranteed, leading to the impossibility of potential influence in view of his future situation in the prosecution system. The nominations are intended to rise from not less than six members of the Prosecution College within 7 days of the opening of the procedure and the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council to determine the date of the interview, which is public, providing for non-governmental organisations to be able to deliver opinions in this procedure. The election of the first prosecutor investigating the Prosecutor General is scheduled to start one month after the adoption of the amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Law on the Judiciary. Until then, applications will be put forward, and in two more months the Supreme Judicial Council should make the choice. The basis for the early release of the prosecutor, who will investigate the Prosecutor General, is established by the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council, as disciplinary proceedings against the Prosecutor investigating the Chief, will take place in front of the Council's plenary. There are two types of punishments envisaged for the claim and dismissal as well as for the members of the Supreme Judicial Council. It is envisaged that the prosecutor, who will investigate the Attorney General, may appear only before the Specialized Criminal Court, the Appeals Specialized Criminal Court and the Supreme Court of Cassation. With the changes in the Code of Criminal Procedure, the new prosecutor is excluded from internal institutional control at the Prosecutor's Office and with regard to the decrees and refusals to initiate pre-trial proceedings, and is not subject to supervision and methodological guidance by the Prosecutor General. Accordingly, it is excluded from the application of the similar provisions of the Law on the Judiciary, which govern the hierarchy of the Prosecutor's Office and the institutional control. I believe, in conclusion, that the adoption of the proposed bill will meet the public expectations for ensuring an effective and impartial conduct of investigations against the Prosecutor General, in line with the constitutional framework in force. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u36	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. Are there lines? Statements? Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u37	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It's kind of like this debate is going on. We on the left are trying to express our arguments. There's no gay ones, there's no argument, and there's no pride, and that's not very normal. The solution of a problem, which has been shaking the society in Bulgaria for 20 years and which is subject to international surveillance, should cause much more enthusiasm. Why is that not so? It seems to me that both the non-jurists and anyone with a certain sense of logic when they hear a prosecutor's investigation into the Attorney General's office feels somehow inside that there's something that sounds strange, illogical, confusing. A prosecutor who's going to investigate the chief! Tautology is obvious, but the question is not only stylish. Could a prosecutor be involved for a long period of time - seven years, just one other person - and she was also the Attorney General's? Well, this man will develop an obsession in seven years. He will get up and lie down with the actions of another man. Instead of personal security, there will be something like the opposite personal preview. What about the subject of interest, the Attorney General? He's also a prosecutor who can investigate the investigator. Would he, in your opinion, be interested in the person, in life, in the career of a man whose only professional activity is to monitor his actions, to press charges and to convict him? I don't know how you imagine this co-existence of these two figures in our legal peace? How do you imagine the existence of the Attorney General and his supervisor, as respected colleague Yavor Notev expressed himself in the Legal Commission, the Prosecutor General and his version bis, on his alter ego? I don't know how you imagine it!? One's gonna chase, the other's gonna run. One's gonna dig, the other's gonna hide. Or the two of them will sit across from each other like in a Western, look each other in the eye and wonder who will first reach for the Penal Code. I don't know how you imagine it. And I can't see how anyone else imagined it, because in any country in the world, I didn't see anything like that. There's no one to turn to to see how it worked or didn't work because it's nowhere to be found. We can't go back in history, colleague Baichev. You mentioned Roman poets from two thousand years ago. Let's go back four thousand years. The first written law that mankind knows is the so-called Code of Hamurapi, the king of Israel, you know well about it. Well, since then, for four thousand years of written legislation, no one has thought to make an investigative prosecutor to investigate only the chief. So we should probably be happy here, because it is here today in Bulgaria that legislation has reached this figure. But I do not see, as I began my speech, particular enthusiasm even in you. The truth is, I'm skeptical. Observers and experts are also skeptical about whether this figure is a cause for pride, whether it will work, whether it will be able to solve some of the problems, and there are problems. Why wouldn't it solve these problems in my opinion, and why wouldn't this figure work? First, let's look from a theoretical point of view. It seems to me that it is clear to everyone that the Penal Code is of paramount importance to the act, not the person of the perpetrator. The quality of a child may relate to the severity of the punishment eventually, but not to the method of its persecution. The law, being the same for everyone, should be the same for everyone. The situation of the service may not be an obstacle to prosecution unless a law expressly foresees this, as is the case for immunity and, accordingly, the removal procedures, but cannot be a prerequisite for an investigation. And when you create a figure whose only reason for existence is to investigate one person, it becomes a prerequisite. Tell me how Mr. or Mrs. Prosecutor investigating the chief is going to justify his seven-year salary if he hasn't investigated if he hasn't filed charges if he hasn't convicted? And here comes the practical side of the question. An investigation, ladies and gentlemen, even the simplest, is not done by one person, and it was at the top of the hierarchy. You don't expect, when he receives a signal, that the investigating attorney himself will go to collect evidence, conduct investigative actions with the relevant interrogations, implement funds? No, he will address the authorities under Chapter Six of the PPC.... the investigating authorities in the Ministry of Interior, in certain cases in Customs, investigators. That is because these authorities do not have much to investigate the Attorney General, this procedure is being dealt with today. So what's the point of this rotation in a circle? The dog's chasing his tail a little bit, I think. Admit it, you feel something's wrong, too. There's something wrong with this whole thing. And at the same time, I'm sure many of you are thinking: well, those in opposition are never satisfied, so far we've had our ears blown off that we need an investigation of the Attorney General, and now we don't like the authority that's going to investigate it!? Things here are very much like your recent Constitutional fiasco. Then, in the many demands of the protest, of which the most accountable were those for the resignation of the government and the Attorney General............................ by reminding him, you took a mantra for a Grand National Assembly and for a new Constitution, declared it for what people want, I do not know exactly how you recognized him because I did not see you in the square, and the result is clear. Now in the same way from the several reports on the Cooperation and Verification Mechanism, from the special report on the rule of law on the new European Union Mechanism, the Resolution of the European Parliament, the opinions of the Venice Commission, the public debate that has been taking place for years in Bulgaria, you have taken on an element of the investigation, and you are proposing a simple solution. This will, of course, be another unsuccessful attempt to solve the problem. I don't know if there's enough time for it to go through with it. From what I understand, the Venice Commission will be heard again. I do not know, dear Mr. Chairman, whether the Venice Commission no longer considers itself a permanent number on the issues of Bulgaria and the Prosecutor General because we keep them engaged all the time. I don't know, but I think I can tell you why you can't. You fail to find the right answer with this task, because, ladies and gentlemen, you are mistaken. Among us in the hall I think there are mathematicians, but in fact all of us now, along with online learning, have recalled the tasks of mathematics, text tasks. You know that the classic is with two pipes that enter one pool from one entering water, the other coming out of the other. The more you know about math, the easier it will be to solve the problem. But even the best mathematician won't get to the right answer if the conditions are missing one of the tubes. You're following me, I hope, the thought. If I continue this metaphor, I will tell you that from the condition set by the importers of the Law, it is not that the tube is missing. The questions that the Bulgarian citizens ask about the Prosecutor's Office, of which the investigation of the Prosecutor General is only one aspect, are much more general. The big question is what you don't want, what you can't, or what you're afraid to see, sounds like: does the figure of the Attorney General fit into its current functions, powers and actions in the democratic system of governance? And the answer, you feel, from all the data I just told you, is: no! Because in order for a figure to be consistent with democratic standards, it must be entrusted with legitimacy in choosing, with control over powers, with accountability of results. On all three issues, there are deficits in our system. This is a serious problem because they have an impact on fundamental principles such as the separation of authorities and the rule of law. It is precisely the last rule of law that has to do with the direct question of investigations by the Attorney General. It should, of course, be resolved, but there is a much clearer and easier solution. We are talking about changes to the Code of Criminal Procedure, which I have told you many times about, which we have explained to you and proposed repeatedly, and which will allow the refusal of production to be controlled by the relevant court. We have proposed a bill that can be discussed and refined. We don't pretend to be perfect, but this is the way. When the time comes, we'll talk about it again. I would just like to point out, however, that this issue is also relevant to this new investigating attorney general, because when it is alerted or addressed to this new figure and refuses to initiate proceedings, and this decision is sole and it is not subject to control that the person who will investigate the Attorney General is working with the Attorney General's Office?! There are many questions, many problems, confused is your whole concept. To conclude, I would like to say that, in order to resolve this issue qualitatively, a comprehensive and thorough reform is needed, which covers all issues of constitutional, legal and practical powers, which must review and see how many bodies of the Supreme Judicial Council have been established through the Prosecutor General and should be refined and procedural laws which may be relevant should also be seen. But this, ladies and gentlemen, will be the task of the next government. The current majority can on this, as well as on many other issues, do only one useful thing, and it is to clear the way for another majority. Thank you. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u38	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u39	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Zarkov, I allow myself this line to your speech at least because you first said that you saw a problem over the control of the Attorney General for 20 years. Just to remind you that the centenary is more years in parliament and has had a legislative initiative many years before GERB exists. It's one of the shades I have for you as a line. The other is that you have touched on your proposal for the possibility of judicial review of the Prosecutor's orders for refusal of proceedings. And here I cannot help but think of the opinion of the Supreme Court of Cassation under your bill, and of Mrs Cornelia Ninova, who enters the Chamber, the opinion that says the following: It is most evident to me that the principle of independence of the Prosecutor's Office and the Court of Justice will be violated when a court will be able to award for the refusal of such order for the proceedings. That would be a direct interference with the prosecution's work by the judiciary. One. Secondly, since you say there are a lot of mathematicians in this room, I'll allow myself to say that they do well with mathematics. There are also 150 thousand refusals per year of the Prosecutor's Office to initiate such proceedings. Come you now tell me how many Bulgarian judges of those somewhere over 2000, who in criminal cases are about 1000, should be engaged in examining such refusals even, say, at 50% of their appeal from the formation of proceedings? You say you can't fight, so to speak, a division of authorities when we want to have some control, not create a new figure. Well, for me, you want to create a whole new court, a new caselaw, a new structure, a new courthouse to deal with such refusals. Do you think that's the way to do it?! Why do you not think that our proposal, which is put to your attention, is more untenable, as you say, than what, for me, clearly violates the independence of the prosecution from the court?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u40	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u41	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Zarkov, my line to you is in several respects, and it is in relation to the fact that you have affected the part where you propose your Code of Criminal Procedure. I'm just gonna give you a few opinions, and if you could explain it to me, I'd be happy. First of all, the Bulgarian judiciary, you know that it is not suitable for the introduction of judicial proceedings against the refusal to initiate pre-trial proceedings. This will lead to a traffic jam on the courts. Can you answer that question for me? Then, with the proposal you make in your Criminal Procedure Code, you take away the prosecution's function, that is, you want the court to seize the prosecutor's indictments. Next thing you know, what you're offering. You know that the resources for labor, funds and time are not answered in your Bill where will they come from? Next on this bill.. absolutely all opinions are negative... the Ministry of Justice, the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria, Supreme Court of Cassation. To conclude, I would like you to answer and note that if you were really sincere in what you say, you know very well that in order to adopt this bill, you should be part of an in-depth constitutional framework. You know that very well! In this regard, if you had the desire to do so, you would support the project of the Political Party GERB to consider a new Constitution and convene a Grand National Assembly. Because what you are talking about is only possible in this way and you as a lawyer know it very well! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. The line, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u43	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Zarkov, you spoke well and spoke absolute truths. I think you made one mistake, given the previous lines that were made by GERB's parliamentary group to you. They obviously don't understand the essence of what you just said. Perhaps you should have quoted at least the former constitutional judge, who is from their parliamentary group Mr. Georgi Markov, who clearly and categorically says: Bulgaria does not need a second chief prosecutor to investigate the first, that a third should investigate the second. However, to also ask their colleague from GERB "The former constitutional judge Georgi Markov." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u44	Thank you, Mr. Popov. A hole, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u45	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear replicators, thank you for the line. Thank you for finally paying attention to our proposal. It is a pity that this happens when we discuss your proposal, but I would be ashamed of your proposal, too, so I find this relatively normal. I'll explain for the 26th time, I'd talk slower, but we're limited in time. The problem with the investigation of the Prosecutor General, as has been understood by the Constitutional Court, which told you something that everyone, except your majority and your Minister of Justice, knows, is not in the legal inability to investigate his figure, but in the factual inability to do so because of the hierarchic law, which is not even as legally regulated as it exists in practice. Are we clear so far? Okay. When you create some other person who will monitor the sides and at best there will be two or three weeks at the beginning, as long as he is interesting to go on TV.. that will be his job, you will not decide anything. That is why we propose this model, this inability to be overcome when certain acts are well served, you claim that there will be too many, to sit down and see for which refusals to initiate proceedings this judicial review can take place. In this way you will solve the problem where it is located, on the one hand. On the other hand, because you're talking about our proposal, it's also in the opinion of the Venice Commission. Why did you like what the Opinion said about the investigation of the Attorney General and did it in Law, and you didn't like that the Venice Commission recommended that we do exactly what we suggested? How do you read these opinions? Since you are really continuing, without being ashamed, to mention that shameful episode of Bulgarian parliamentaryism with the Constitution, first of all, I cannot understand what the proposal of the Criminal Procedure Code has to do with the Constitution?! And secondly, let me tell you that in your new Constitution on the matter of the Attorney General, there wasn't a word. One word! Here to continue and finish the first part of Mr. Ivanov's line, who said we saw a problem. Dear Lord Ivanov, the only good thing about this bill is that you finally dared to say something about it. However, this is unfortunately not so much your achievement. This is an achievement of the Bulgarian citizens who pressured you from the square, as well as the international observers who pressured you with a resolution, but because by force beauty does not work, the result are these bills.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u46	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. We continue with speeches. Mrs. Niva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u47	Dear colleagues of GERB, you do not believe that the control mechanism for the chief prosecutor you are proposing will work? Well, it's not gonna work because it's a legal nonsense and a political delusion that you're following the recommendations of the Venice Commission on creating control over the D.A.'s activities. Or maybe try who gets tired first?! The Venice Commission and the Council of Europe should give us recommendations in this regard and you should offer untenable and non-working solutions! Because I will only quote you on the proposal you give in art. 30, t. 3, para. 1: The Prosecutor for the investigation of the Prosecutor General is part of the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria. It is a paradox that the Prosecutor's College, which is run by the Attorney General, only six prosecutors and investigators who are directly subordinate procedurally, administratively and disciplinaryly to the Attorney General, can make a proposal for this figure. This shows that your proposal is initially corrupted. It is obvious that it is done in order to buy time, beat the ball, or offer something that is like your proposal for a new Constitution. It's gonna end the same way! It will not be approved by the Venice Commission and you will again wonder to look for mechanisms to mislead citizens that you really want to create such a mechanism for controlling the Attorney General. I remind you of the second paragraph of Article 2. 126 of the Constitution, which states that all prosecutors are subordinate to the Prosecutor General and he can exercise methodological guidance and control over their activities, and the changes in the PPC you propose completely contradict the Constitution. Then what is the result that this figure, which I say, will be appointed by the Attorney General, will have to control the same. Well, obviously, it's not gonna work because there are mechanisms that the D.A. can influence on this prosecutor. If a prosecutor decides to investigate the Attorney General, that is, the person to be elected, the Prosecutor General has mechanisms against his actions. I will give an example: he can post the same prosecutor who now works at the Sofia Prosecutor's Office, at the Prosecutor's Office in Silistra, in Ivaylovgrad or wherever.! There may be disciplinary proceedings against the same prosecutor. And the fact that prosecutors watch dozens, hundreds of case files is, what's there to find some kind of gap somewhere?! So you're aware of what you're offering, and it won't work. This mechanism will only work when a person or body is provided outside the prosecution system due to the structure of the prosecution and the influence of the Prosecutor General on the actions of all prosecutors, as well as on the Prosecutor's College of the Supreme Judicial Council.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u48	Thank you. Are there lines? I can't see. We continue with the speeches. Any other speeches? You have the floor, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u49	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I listened with attention to the public addressed definitely by the socialist group or progressive socialists. Perhaps when you were preparing for these statements and attacks on the bill we have tabled, it was not bad to recall Nusic's heroine and a well-structured opinion of a leading Bulgarian lawyer, namely lawyer Dokovska. I rule that lawyer Dokovska has recently been a civil lawyer for the leader of your parliamentary group, but in order to introduce the other Members of the Chamber to the opinion of lawyer Dokovska on your great proposal for a change in the Criminal Court, I will only allow myself to quote part of her opinion. Now remember Nusic's character, who was offended when they called her the hypotenuse. If she turns to the prosecutor, for which there is no obstacle, he will refuse to initiate criminal proceedings because there is insufficient evidence of a common crime committed. However, if the lady is very offended, she will appeal the prosecutor's refusal before the first instance court, then before the appeals. If the court misjudges the ruling, it will be able to appeal the prosecutor's repeated refusal in a two-instant order. In this case, apart from the hypotenuse, the court will probably also assess whether there is any new material evidence. This is briefly the explanation of your proposal submitted, I think, a year ago in 2019, as regards judicial review in the event of the prosecutor's refusal to initiate a complaint by a lady called the hypotenuse, for example, and to initiate prosecution. Now you're offering us the same, only with regard to the Attorney General, and you're offering it as something extremely important to the right decision! I will not stop because my colleague Ivanov has already done so, at the opinion of the Supreme Court of Cassation, which I believe he quotes and you heard well. I will not dwell on the legislation 4,000 years ago, which you quoted, Mr. Zarkov, and Hamurapi's laws. Yes, 4,000 years ago, there were 288 laws in Babylon. At the heart of these laws, you know who was the call for equivalence of retribution: an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth. Then if a building collapses and the building owner dies below it, then the builder is punished by death. If the son of the building owner dies, the building builder's son is punished by death. If the owner's slave dies, the builder just gives a slave away. I don't believe you expect us to go back 4,000 years in legislation. On the contrary, we propose a radically different approach, yes, in order to meet the expectations of Bulgarian citizens, not only our European partners, not only the European Commission Report, not only the European Parliament resolution, but also the main reason for which it may be your former colleague. We're offering some sort of control mechanism to the Attorney General. Yes, you said it was a completely incompetent approach and you were entitled to that opinion. I think that only the Constitutional Court can give opinions as to whether these texts are unconstitutional and not Mrs Niva, as she tried to do from the parliamentary platform. I would also like to say a few words in relation to the speech of another Member who was former to your parliamentary group, namely Mr. Jankov, who skillfully served with the proposals for a change in the Constitution, although both you and the opposition DPS and those who left progressive Socialists opposed such a debate at all. Should we stress once again that the New Constitution project was only the beginning of a process? This process had to end with a decision by all of us to hold elections for the Grand National Assembly and only then did the next parliamentarians in the Grand National Assembly change the Constitution, including in the part of the Court of Justice, including with regard to the competence of the Prosecutor General and the supervision of his acts or the investigation of a possible crime on his part. I also said then that you were absent from this debate and it was important: it was not important for the majority, for the government, for GERB it was important for the Bulgarian state. And I join in what has been said that in another parliament, hopefully for a Grand National Assembly, such a debate should be held not only to be pat us on the shoulder or to praise us whether by the Venice Commission or by Europe, that we respect their recommendations and opinions, but because of the Bulgarian citizens and not only the protesters, but also everyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u50	Thank you, dear Mrs. Atanasova. Are there lines? Mr. Tzipov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u51	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Atanasova, I think that you have missed something very important, which I hope you will confirm and explain to the MPs from the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria.......................... how many positive opinions there are on their bill and what was really underlined in the comments received regarding their proposal for amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure and their constitutionality!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u52	Thank you, Mr. Tzipov. Mr. Ivanov, second line. You have less than a minute.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u53	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Atanasova, I think you've missed some very important things you should have said from this tribune. First of all, that your constitutional reform has crashed, and don't tell us about such things here. Secondly, the Venice Commission very accurately and clearly told you what you should do with this project for the Prosecutor General................. just throw it in the basket. We have come to this, Mrs. Atanasova, that the Commissioner for Justice of the European Commission wants all our bills to go through them to say that they are fit. And second of all, speaking of Nusic, I think you've entered this fairy tale, his story of cucumber 90% water. We didn't hear anything else from you. Thank you. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u54	Thank you. I don't see anyone asking for a third line. A hole, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Tzipov, of all the opinions received, there is nothing to support the Law on the change of the Code of Criminal Procedure, submitted by the MPs from BSP to Bulgaria last year. Everyone says they think he'll be, except incompetent and unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u56	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u57	The way you're holding Mr. Zarkov. But I'm gonna have to ask you not to affect the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u58	Dear Mr. Chairman, my procedure is indeed in the manner of conduct. Since we have obviously finished discussing the GERB Bill, which they are not discussing, and we have moved on to the Bill submitted by the BSP for Bulgaria and more than a year and a half ago, please give us 30 minutes to explain it, including the opinions in it, because it is obvious that the MPs of GERB neither understand the idea of the Bill nor his philosophy! They couldn't say a single word in defence of their bill. They're talking about ours!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u59	Here you are already drawing conclusions that are not relevant to the way of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u60	Excuse me. I conclude my procedure with the following concrete proposal.. Once this bill is interesting, it has finally become interesting to the House. I am happy for this, give it and let us discuss it, with time for all the groups, so that we can express our positions. [[(Comments from GERB: We do not want it!]] Finally, Mr. President, I am glad that you are reading the opinions on our drafts. It is a pity that you do not read those on yours. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u61	Mr. Tzipov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u62	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Today, once again, we are witnessing a debate on an extremely important issue in which colleagues from the parliamentary group of BSP in Bulgaria are offering absolutely nothing. Let it be clear today in the plenary that their bill has nothing to do with the issue of accountability and independence of the investigation against the Attorney General, a topic which has been discussed for more than a few years! So, Mr. President, there is no way these bills can be considered in the context of today's debate together! I repeat, the bill of amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure concerning judicial control of the acts of the prosecution, with which pre-trial criminal proceedings are refused, has nothing to do with the currently debated bill! Let me do another flashback after I did it at the presentation of the Bill. The theme of the chief prosecutor's accountability was also the subject of the constitutional changes since the end of 2015. Let me remind the Chamber that it was also very clear then that there was also a need for a change of the Law. This became a fact at the beginning of 2016 and since then the prosecutor's office has not been a hierarchical structure! The claims that the career development of every prosecutor or investigator and the institutional control over their acts cannot be carried out, honourable Members, by the Prosecutor General, I think that this has become clear in the debate in the Committee on Legal Affairs and in the debate in the plenary on the Report, which the Members of the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria insisted on and which we were discussing, Mr. President, two months ago! However, today we are again having a debate, in which there are no arguments, again with the political phrases learned, it is said that this is not happening, it is not that the project should be thrown into the trash can! Dear Members of Parliament, make a proposal at least one and let us debate on it! And this proposal to be related to this topic! [[Relations of MP Cornelia Ninova.]] We have made it very clear that we have a firm position that such a mechanism must be adopted. We have made it very clear that there is a basis for this project to be upgraded. We have made it very clear that we will listen to all reasonable remarks and suggestions that are made on the subject. It is for this reason that, even before the examination of the Draft in plenary, we have given a clear signal that we are ready to reconsider, including the question of who can make the proposal to the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council, which will choose this figure, and that we will put forward a proposal between the first and second votes every candidate for this position to be able to nominate himself. We believe that this is a proposal worth discussing. Indeed, the question has been raised in the public domain for several years about how the prosecutors' college has been leading the campaign policy. Dear Members of Parliament, the Constitution and the changes in it since 2015 are clear enough! We found it necessary, by preparing this bill, to comply, honourable MPs, and with the opinion given by the Venice Commission on the Draft Law of the Council of Ministers last year. It is for this reason that we felt that the decision to appoint this figure should be taken by the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council, because this is the only way to guarantee the independence of this prosecutor in the investigation against the Attorney General. After all, when we have received such a clear view, it is natural that we will comply with it. To conclude, honourable Members, once again I would like to reiterate our firm position that we intend to accept this proposal, to make it a fact before the end of the term of office of this National Assembly, at the same time to initiate the procedure for the election of a prosecutor in the investigation against the Prosecutor General.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u63	Thank you, dear Mr. Tzipov. - What's the line? Mr. Notev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u64	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Tzipov, I ask myself a few questions before we make a final decision with the vote on the proposed bill, one of the importers of which you are. I wonder if there is any specific information that you could provide us with about the European legal systems of representatives in the Venice Commission, and do these legal systems foresee such a figure? Is the figure of an observer, supervisor or examiner of the Attorney General in their countries familiar? It still seems to me that we owe such information, in so far as we accept their view as extremely valuable and mandatory, which is not the case with regard to our country, when we are discussing internal laws. I also ask myself, when we propose this procedure, which is remarkably similar to the procedure of the election of the Attorney General, a parallel election of the Attorney General, do we mean that there was no second candidate for the election, the last one held as a result of which the current one was elected? Since this choice proposed by you in this bill is the second in a row, the logical question is asked, where was this candidate who will now prove worthy as a person, as a professional, to check out the Attorney General? Why wasn't he a rival of the Attorney General? Are we sure we'll find such a person? However, let's say that this is where we enter into the sphere of subjectivism and personal judgment. As a lawyer, I ask the following question, and I would like to receive this answer after the procedure under which the Attorney General will be examined is subject to the procedural rules in the Code of Criminal Procedure in force, why are we abandoning a basic principle, a basic rule, namely the random selection of the examiner in relation to the one who has been examined, the random selection to which we have paid great attention both to the Prosecutor and the judge who will give the judgment? Is it not much easier to manipulate the pre-known examiner, generally speaking, to stimulate or repress him in a way that motivates and models his choice in a possible check? [[Noise and lines.]] I think we're in grave conflict with legal principles here, and it's a rude, inexplicable contradiction! People say, "If I know where I'm going to fall, a straw will be a bed, but we seem to be dealing with this...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u65	You've been using a lot of time for a line, Mr. Notev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u66	...put a pillow in the event of a possible fall and soften the impact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u67	Thank you. You made a whole statement, but it's on the group.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u68	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Notev, yes, by preparing the bill, we have done what is necessary and I expect the Ministry of Justice to ask and see where, in which legal systems, in which judicial systems there is some similar figure. However, let me draw your attention, Mr. Notev, to the fact that there is no such figure as is at stake in many Member States of the Council of Europe, as an aid authority, as is the Venice Commission, that there is no such figure as is at stake in our legislation and in our Constitution. After all, after a matter has been debated for more than a few years, dear Mr. Notev, of course steps must be taken in finding the appropriate solution. If we're right, time will tell. I would like to draw your attention to how a procedure is conducted by the Supreme Judicial Council, which concerns a magistrate from the independent judiciary, is not the work of the parliament, dear Mr. Notev. To conclude, let me once again confirm our firm position that we must work in such a direction and find a correct solution to the issue that has been debated in public space for several years. We intend to do so by the end of this term.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u69	Thank you, Mr. Tzipov. Any other speeches? There are no other speeches. I call off the debate and we proceed to the vote. I put to the vote the Law on the Supplement to the Criminal Procedure Code, No 054-01-110, tabled by the National Representative Krasimir Tzipov and a group of MPs. Mr. Kirchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u70	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u71	Yeah. Mr. Gurnevsky?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u72	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u73	Thank you. He's adamant. Vote 154 Members of Parliament and 2 Online s become 156 votes: for.98 in the House plus 2 online.............................................................................................................. The motion is accepted. We continue with the next item of the Work Programme: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE AGREEMENT TO HELP THE PRESENTATION OF AND BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND THE KINGDOM OF SWEDEN AND JANSSEN PHARMACEUTICA NV OF THE PROCEEDINGS OF THE BUILDING AND PROPOSAL OF AXIN AGAINST COVID-19 FOR BULGARIA AND THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SWEDEN AND THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA FOR THE SALE OF VAXINE AGAINST COVID-19, DevelopED BY JANSSEN PHARMACEUTICA NV. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Mrs. Daritkova, please give us the Commission Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u74	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the support of resale by and between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Sweden and Janssen Pharmaceutica NV for the purpose of buying and supplying a vaccine against COVID-19 to Bulgaria and the Agreement between the Kingdom of Sweden and the Republic of Bulgaria on the resale of a vaccine against COVID-19 developed by Janssen Pharmaceutica NV, No 002-02-24, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 December 2020. At its extraordinary meeting held on 17 December 2020, the Health Commission examined and discussed the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the Assistance of resale from and between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Sweden and Janssen Pharmaceutica NV for the purpose of purchasing and supplying a vaccine against COVID-19 for Bulgaria and the Agreement between the Kingdom of Sweden and the Republic of Bulgaria on the resale of a vaccine against COVID-19 developed by Janssen Pharmaceutica NV, No 002-02-24, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 December 2020. The meeting was attended by Deputy Minister of Health Mrs. Zheny Nacheva. Before proceeding to the presentation of the reasons, the President of the Committee on Health Dr. Daniela Daritkova drew attention to the fact that there is a Declaration on the absence of conflict of interest and respect for the confidentiality of acquisition by the Commission on behalf of the Member States of vaccines against COVID-19, while neither the accompanying letter nor the reasons for that declaration should be filled in and by whom. In this regard, she asked the importer to clarify how this declaration should be carried out by the Committee on Health, respectively, of the National Assembly, in order to respect the procedure for examining and voting the bill correctly. In response to the question, Ms. Nacheva clarified that in this case it is not necessary to sign the above declaration. The draft and its reasons were presented by Mrs. Nacheva, who informed the MPs that the Agreement authorising the European Commission to propose to the participating Member States and to conclude, on their behalf, preliminary agreements on the purchase of vaccines with their producers in order to provide Member States with vaccines in the fight against the pandemic of COVID-19 ( (prom., D.V., No. 71 from 2020) , and is in force for the Republic of Bulgaria since 12 August 2020. As provided for in art. 4 of the Agreement, the Commission shall notify the participating States that it intends to conclude an agreement with a producer on their behalf containing an obligation to acquire doses of vaccine. Where a participating Member State does not agree with the conclusion of a prior purchase agreement containing an obligation to acquire doses of vaccine or the terms of the agreement, it shall be entitled to withdraw participation by express notification to the Commission within five working days. According to the same text, if the States expressly do not give up, it is assumed that they agree with the conclusion of the agreement by the Commission on their behalf and on their behalf. The Ministry of Health on 8 October 2020 received a draft preliminary vaccination agreement to be concluded between the European Commission and the manufacturer of medicinal products Janssen Pharmaceutica NV. With a report to the Council of Ministers, with an ex. No 03-08-1685/14 October 2020, the Ministry of Health has proposed for approval refusal of inclusion in the pre-buying agreement with the pharmaceutical company Janssen Pharmaceutica. By letter No 99-00-792/14 October 2020, Bulgaria submitted to the European Commission an explicit refusal of inclusion in the Agreement on the purchase of vaccine by the manufacturer of medicinal products Janssen Pharmaceutica NV. In view of the pan-European vision for ensuring equal access to vaccines to the citizens of the European Union at its meeting, the Council of Ministers approved a protocol decision to take action by Bulgaria to provide supplies from the vaccine offered by the pharmaceutical company Janssen Pharmaceutica NV. The legal mechanism for receiving doses of this vaccine should be implemented through an agreement with another Member State to request and to provide Bulgaria with the requested quantities of the vaccine at the same price and under the same conditions that would have been achieved when participating in the Agreement. Taking into account the uncertainty regarding the results of the clinical trials for other vaccine candidates, Protocol No 64 of the extraordinary meeting of the Council of Ministers on 13 November 2020 approved the taking of action to conclude a contract for the supply of vaccines against COVID-19 by Janssen Pharmaceutica NV. By decision of the National Assembly of 3 December 2020. (prom., D.V., No. Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). approved by the Council of Ministers the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the preliminary agreements concluded by the European Commission and the manufacturers of drugs AstraZeneca, Sanofi and Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech Manufacturing GmbH for the purchase of vaccines in relation to the pandemic of COVID-19, as well as the taking of action for the conclusion of a contract for the purchase of vaccines by Janssen Pharmaceutica NV. Under the prior Agreement with Janssen Pharmaceutica, the distribution of doses of the vaccine for each Member State is set to be proportionate on a percentage basis of the population. Member States agreed to be made available for purchase by Switzerland, Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway part of the total quantity. After further clarification with the European Commission and the Kingdom of Sweden as coordinator of the process of allocation of quantities between Member States, agreement was reached on the corresponding quantity for Bulgaria. The delivery of vaccines to the Republic of Bulgaria by the manufacturer Janssen Pharmaceutica NV will be implemented by means of an Agreement to support the resale from and between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Sweden and Janssen Pharmaceutica NV for the purpose of buying and supplying the vaccine against COVID-19 to Bulgaria and by an Agreement between the Kingdom of Sweden and the Republic of Bulgaria on the resale of the vaccine against COVID-19 developed by Janssen Pharmaceutica NV. During the discussion, the members of the Committee on Health raised specific questions regarding the reasons why the Ministry of Health initially expressed an explicit refusal of inclusion in the preliminary Agreement with the pharmaceutical company Janssen Pharmaceutica NV, as well as the need to adopt the proposed bill for ratification of the Agreement with the Kingdom of Sweden. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: for 13, without objections and abstentions, the Committee on Health suggests to the National Assembly to adopt, on the basis of the first vote, a bill for the ratification of the Agreement on the Assistance of resale by and between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Sweden and Janssen Pharmaceutica NV for the purpose of purchasing and supplying a vaccine against COVID-19 for Bulgaria and the Agreement between the Kingdom of Sweden and the Republic of Bulgaria on the resale of a vaccine against COVID-19 developed by Janssen Pharmaceutic NV, No 002-02-24, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 December 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u75	Thank you. Statements, coworkers? I won't. I'm voting... [[Noise and lines. National Representative Georgi Mihailov wants the floor.]] Professor Mikhailov, come in. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I shut down my colleagues correctly. I put you to the vote, you'll have a second-point opportunity. [[Noise and lines.]] Don't worry, guys. It's my pass. I put to the first vote a bill for ratification of the Agreement. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Kirchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u76	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u77	Mr. Gurnevsky?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u78	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u79	Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]] Guys, take it easy, please! An action by the chairman sometimes what emotion triggers?! Vote 94 MPs plus two remotes become 96: for 91 plus two remotes become 93, not against, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Procedure Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u80	Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure and Procedure of the National Assembly, I am making a procedural proposal that the bill adopted at the first vote should be reviewed and put to the second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u81	Please vote on the procedure so made. Mr. Kirchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u82	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u83	Mr. Gurnevsky?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u84	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u85	Thank you. Vote 98 MPs and two remotes become 100: for 95 plus two remotes become 97, not against, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u86	THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Agreement to support the resale by and between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Sweden and Janssen Pharmaceutica NV of the purpose of buying and supplying a vaccine against COVID-19 to Bulgaria and the Agreement between the Kingdom of Sweden and the Republic of Bulgaria on the resale of a vaccine against COVID-19 developed by Janssen Pharmaceutica NV Art. 1. Ratification of the Agreement to support the resale from and between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Sweden and Janssen Pharmaceutica NV for the purpose of buying and supplying a vaccine against COVID-19 to Bulgaria and the Agreement between the Kingdom of Sweden and the Republic of Bulgaria on the resale of a vaccine against COVID-19 developed by Janssen Pharmaceutica NV. Art. 2. Orders on grounds of art. 25, para. 2 of the International Contracts Act of the Republic of Bulgaria the agreements under art. 1 shall not be promulgated in the Official Journal Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 84, para. The second sentence of the Rules of Procedure makes the following amendment proposal because of the technical error made in the text of the importer: in the name of the Law, the words of the objectives to be replaced by the
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u87	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote first the editorial amendment in the title. Mr. Kirchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u88	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u89	Mr. Gurnevsky?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u90	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u91	Thank you. They voted 105 MPs plus two remote "s" becomes 107: for 101 and two remote.... no total................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ I shall put to the vote the name of the Law with the corresponding version which we have adopted, art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2. Mr. Kirchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u92	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u93	Mr. Gurnevsky?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u94	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u95	Thank you. They voted 101 MPs plus two remotes. They become 103: for 98 plus two remotes, they become 100, they don't mind, they don't hold back 3. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next point: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO APPROVAL THE PARTICIPATION OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA IN THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION AND THE MANUFACTURERS OF CUREVAC DOCTORS AG AND MODERNA SWITZERLAND GMBH PREVERSION CONVERSION CONVERSION WITH THE PANDAEMIA OF COVID-19. It was introduced by the Council of Ministers on 17 December 2020. Here you are, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u96	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a draft decision approving the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the CUREVAC AG and Moderna Switzerland GmbH medicines concluded by the European Commission in advance agreements for the purchase of vaccines in relation to the CoVID-19 pandemic, No 002-03-17 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 December 2020. At its extraordinary meeting held on 17 December 2020, the Health Commission examined and discussed the draft decision approving the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the CUREVAC AG and Moderna Switzerland GmbH, concluded by the European Commission and the manufacturers of medicines, preliminary agreements for the purchase of vaccines in relation to the CoVID-19 pandemic, No 002-03-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 December 2020. The agreement by which the European Commission is authorised to propose to the participating Member States and to conclude, on their behalf, preliminary agreements on the purchase of vaccines with their producers in order to provide Member States with vaccines in the fight against the pandemic of COVID-19 ( (prom., D.V., No. 71 from 2020) , and is in force for the Republic of Bulgaria since 12 August 2020. Under the Agreement, the European Commission is proposing to the Member States to conclude two types of preliminary agreements on their behalf. The first gives the right to acquire doses of vaccines according to art. 3 of the Agreement and the second obligation to acquire doses of vaccines according to art. 4 of the Agreement. At present, there is one proposed agreement allowing for the acquisition of vaccines, and all other agreements bind the Member States with an obligation to acquire the quantities of vaccines laid down on the basis of a percentage of the population. The agreement provides for advance funding for pharmaceutical companies that invest in production capacity before receiving a marketing authorisation for COVID-19 vaccines, which is at the expense of the European Union budget through the Emergency Support Instrument (ESI). The Agreement provides for the possibility that, when the ESI budget is exhausted, but in the interest of certain countries to conclude additional preliminary agreements with a producer, the ESA budget will be supplemented by voluntary contributions from countries which are interested in concluding the agreements. At present, the European Commission has already negotiated with a total of seven companies, of which there are three agreements concluded with AstraZeneca, Sanofi and Janssen Pharmaceutica NV and is about to conclude a fourth with Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech. Vaccines are divided into 3 main categories of Adenovirus vaccines are developed by companies AstraZeneca and Janssen Pharmaceutica NV, antigen vaccines are developed by companies Novavax and Sanofi Pasteur, and RNA vaccines are developed by companies CureVac, BioNTech and Moderna. The vaccines developed by pharmaceutical companies are in different stages of clinical trials and are expected to be authorised at different times. In the event of a positive opinion from the European Medicines Agency, a centralised marketing authorisation may be issued and it is expected to be issued under condition in accordance with European legislation on medicinal products. The delivery of all vaccines will be possible after obtaining a marketing authorisation and the European Commission has estimated information on the planned approval possibilities and the delivery stages of the vaccines. Taking into account the above uncertainty in obtaining a marketing authorisation for each of the following vaccines from the portfolio proposed by the European Commission, the European Commission actively defends the freezing thesis by each Member State of the quantities of vaccines from each of those manufacturers. The single European vaccine portfolio should ensure that safe and effective vaccines are achieved to all citizens of the European Union. Supporting a single vaccine portfolio from all Member States of the Union and declaring solidarity in efforts to exit the COVID-19 crisis is a major task of Member States in the face of an unprecedented pandemic crisis. The wide European portfolio will ensure secure access for European citizens to a CIVID-19 vaccine. On the basis of the Preliminary Purchase Agreement, the European Commission shall instruct the contractor to undertake to produce and deliver priority doses of vaccines to be ordered by the participating Member States at a price and under conditions, including a period agreed under the Agreement. Decision No 841 of the Council of Ministers of 2020 proposed to the National Assembly for the approval of the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the agreements concluded by the European Commission and the manufacturers of medicinal products AstraZeneca, Sanofi and Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech Manufacturing GmbH for the purchase of vaccines in relation to the pandemic of COVID-19 and taking action to conclude a contract for the purchase of vaccines by Janssen Pharmaceutica NV. The proposal of the Council of Ministers was approved by a decision of the National Assembly of 3 December 2020. (prom., D.V., No. Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No Similarly to the above procedure, the National Assembly should also approve the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the CureVac medicinal products producers and Moderna preliminary agreements for the purchase of vaccines in relation to the pandemic of COVID-19. The CureVac AG vaccine should be stored at minus 60° C and the Moderna vaccine between minus 25° C to minus 15° C, therefore it will be necessary to provide additional minus refrigeration facilities with temperature monitoring at both national and regional health inspections, as the storage temperature is different, making it impossible to use the same refrigeration facilities. In relation to ongoing clinical trials and lack of authorisation for use, the inclusion of the Republic of Bulgaria in the CureVac AG and Moderna Switzerland GmbH concluded by the European Commission and the manufacturers of medicinal products will, at present, further guarantee the safe access of Bulgarian citizens to a vaccine for COVID-19. Preliminary agreements provide for the possibility under certain conditions for participating countries to donate, and to resell quantities of vaccines to other countries or public institutions with the consent of the contractor. The sale should be at the price paid for the vaccine. If resale is carried out to any third country, the participating country which resells doses shall have an obligation to reimburse the European Commission the advance payment for a dose paid by the Commission to the contractor. During the discussion the Chairman of the Committee on Health Dr. Daniela Daritkova made proposals for editorial amendments aimed at clarifying the text of the draft decision and to indicate the legal and factual basis for its adoption, namely art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to the Law on ratification of the Agreement, by which the European Commission is empowered to propose to the participating Member States and to conclude on their behalf preliminary agreements for the purchase of vaccines ( 71 from 2020) . It was proposed in the name of the decision after the word............................................................................................ is............................................................................................................................................................ The Members of the National Assembly unanimously supported the proposed editorial amendments, which should be reflected in the text of the draft decision under consideration. On the basis of the vote on the following results, the Committee on Health supports, in principle, the draft decision approving the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in those concluded by the European Commission and the manufacturers of medicines CUREVAC AG and Moderna Switzerland GmbH, preliminary agreements for the purchase of vaccines in relation to the pandemic of COVID-19, No 002-03-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 December 2020, and proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the draft decision on the editorial amendments adopted by the Commission as follows: Project! DECISION approving the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the preliminary agreements concluded by the European Commission and the manufacturers of medicinal products CureVac AG and Moderna Switzerland GmbH for the purchase of vaccines in relation to the pandemic of COVID-19 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to the Law on ratification of the Agreement, by which the European Commission is empowered to propose to the participating Member States and to conclude on their behalf preliminary agreements for the purchase of vaccines ( 71 from 2020) HAS DECIDED Approves the proposed participation of the Republic of Bulgaria by the Council of Ministers in those concluded by the European Commission and the manufacturers of medicinal products CureVac AG and Moderna Switzerland GmbH in advance agreements for the purchase of vaccines in relation to the pandemic of COVID-19
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. I don't see any speeches. Let's move on to the vote. I vote on the draft decision that Mrs Daritkova has just read, along with the editorial amendments they made during a Commission meeting. Mr. Kirchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u98	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u99	Mr. Gurnevsky?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u100	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u101	Thank you. 90 MPs voted in the House plus 2 remotes are 92: for 89 in the House plus 2 remotes become 91, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR MEASURES AND ACTIONS ON THE TIME OF EXEMPTION, NOTIFICED BY THE DECISION OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION OF 13 MARCH 2020 AND ON THE REFUNDING OF THE SUCCESSIONS. Importers - Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs, 10 December 2020; and Daniela Saveclieva, 16 December 2020. Here you are, Mr. Veselinov, to brief us on the Report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u102	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, and for overcoming the consequences, No 054-01-114, submitted by Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs At a regular meeting held on 16 December 2020, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management discussed a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020 and addressing the consequences, No 054-01-114, submitted by Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on 10 December 2020. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Honest Veselinov. By order of the Minister of Health at the end of last month, a number of serious anti-epidemic measures and restrictions were introduced, which will have critical consequences for the country's economy, an increase in unemployment, an increase in people's debts, a reduction in their incomes and, respectively, the quality of life. In this difficult situation with regard to business and people, there is a need for targeted real legislative state support. The proposed change enables, during the exceptional epidemic situation and two months after its cancellation, to reduce the amount or to recover from the payment of the rent and use of property contributions, State or municipal property, natural and legal persons........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ During the discussion the MPs supported the need to draw up and adopt the bill. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government with 13 votes................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u103	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Mrs. Saveklieva, would you like to introduce us to the report on your bill? The report belongs to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u104	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism under the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, and for overcoming the consequences, No 054-01-18, submitted by Daniela Saveclieva on 16 December 2020. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting, held on 16 December 2020, examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, and to address the consequences, No 054-01-18. The bill was presented by the MP Daniela Saveklieva. According to the importer, the purpose of the proposed bill is those affected by the orders of the Minister of Health closed individual businesses, given the type of crisis, to be able to make the most of the State aid provided so as to preserve jobs and prevent bankruptcy. It is envisaged in the selection procedure for project proposals to participate and grant grants to companies who have imposed penalties under the Labour Code and the Labour Migration and Labour Mobility Act. In the subsequent discussion disagreement with the bill expressed Rumen Gechev, Zhelyo Boychev, Adlen Shevked and Valeri Simeonov. Their main motive was that irregular businesses should not be encouraged and they should be aligned with those who were correct towards their workers and the state. People's representative Petar Kanev commented that too often the violations identified by the General Labour Inspectorate are related to the administration of rules and procedures, working conditions and the like, which is why business should not be deprived of support. After the end of the discussion and voting with results: the Economic Policy and Tourism Committee adopted the following opinion: Asks the National Assembly not to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, and to overcome the consequences, No 054-01-18, submitted by Daniela Saveclieva on 16 December 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Saveklieva. Colleagues, you have a say in this. I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, and to overcome the consequences, No 054-01-114, submitted by Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. Mr. Kirchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u106	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u107	Mr. Gurnevsky?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u108	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u109	Thank you. Vote 68 MPs in the House and 2 remotes become 70: for 63 plus 2 remotes they become 65, not against, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, and to overcome the consequences, No 054-01-18, submitted by Daniela Saveclieva on 16 December 2020. This is also a First Reading Report. Please, voting mode. Mr. Kirchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u110	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u111	Mr. Gurnevsky?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u112	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u113	Thank you. The Quaestors, please invite the MPs to the Chamber. Vote 70 MPs in the House plus 2 remote.. become 72: for 65 in the House plus 2 remote.. becomes 67, against none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Mr. Veselinov, you asked for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u114	Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules of the National Assembly, I propose that the two bills amend and supplement the Law on Measures and Actions during the emergency situation, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, and to overcome the consequences to be discussed in a second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u115	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Please, the voting regime under the procedure so made. The two bills will pass at second reading today, as there are no proposals. Mr. Kirchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u116	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u117	Mr. Gurnevsky?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u118	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u119	Vote 75 MPs in the House plus 2 remotes become 77: for 71 in the House and 2 remotes become 73, against none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Mr. Veselinov, please introduce us to the Bill, and then Mrs. Savekliyeva one after the other. They are two separate points in practice, having two points on the fourth point. We'll vote them both separately. You read yours, Mrs. Saveklieva will read hers.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u120	Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that the Draft should be discussed and, second, read the two amendments to the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by the National Assembly Decision of 13 March 2020, and to overcome the consequences adopted just before the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u121	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. I would like to vote on the procedure so that the two bills will be dealt with at second reading today, as there are no proposals. Mr. Kirchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u122	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u123	Mr. Gurnevsky?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u124	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u125	Vote 75 MPs in the House plus 2 remotely voted 77 MPs in total: 71 in the House plus 2 remote 73; not against, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Mr. Veselinov, please give us the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u126	Thank you, Madam President. Since the procedure is precedent, to clarify: The Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020 on overcoming the consequences, was amended and supplemented. § 1. A new article shall be created. 6c with the following content: Art. 6c. (1) During the exceptional epidemic situation and two months after its cancellation, the ministers, governors and managers of other offices renting or using properties of state property, or municipal councils renting or using property of municipal property, may adopt decisions, respectively, to issue orders to reduce the amount of rent and use contributions or to exempt them from payment in full or in part by natural and legal persons, tenants or users who have restricted or suspended their activities in the property as a result of the measures and restrictions imposed during the exceptional epidemic situation. (2) The circumstances of para. 1 shall be established by financial and other documents certifying the limitation or cessation of the activities of natural and legal persons.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Final provisions ..................................................... The law shall enter into force on the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u127	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the so-called Second Voting Act, the name of the Law, § 1, Final Provisions and § 2. Mr. Kirchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u128	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u129	Mr. Gurnevsky?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u130	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u131	Vote 81 MPs plus 2 remote votes total 83 MPs: 79 plus 2 remote representatives, total 83, not against, abstention 2. Mrs. Saveklieva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u132	Thank you, Madam President. The Act amending and supplementing the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, and to address the consequences. ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 21 the following 1. A new para is being created. 10 and para. 11: . (10) In a procedure by selection of project proposals may participate and grant financial assistance may also be granted to persons for whom there are grounds under art. 54, para. 1, t. 6 of the Public Procurement Act and do not have public obligations under art. 162, para. 2, p. 1 of the Tax Insurance Procedure Code before 1 January 2020, established by the entry into force of an act of a competent authority, as well as of persons whose obligations are deferred, deferred or secured. (11) The circumstances of art. 3 and 4 of the Small and Medium-sized Enterprises Act when participating in a procedure for selection of project proposals and conclusion of an administrative grant agreement may be indicated by the applicant and in the Application Form for his project proposal. 2. So far, the Al. 10 becomes para. 12. Final provision ..................................................... The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal. Madam President, the editing I want to do is in para. 10 after the words............................................................................................ 162, para. 2, p. In addition, the following information should be included in the table: 7. "The Tax Insurance Procedure Code."
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u133	Colleagues, speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote first the editorial amendment in § 1, para. 10. Mr. Kirchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u134	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u135	Mr. Gurnevsky?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u136	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u137	88 MPs voted in the House plus 2 remotely voted in total 84 MPs: for 75 plus 2 remotely 79, against 4, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the name of the Law, § 1, with the corresponding version, which we adopted just now, final provisions and § 2. Mr. Kirchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u138	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u139	Mr. Gurnevsky?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u140	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u141	Vote 82 MPs in the House plus 2 remote votes total 84 MPs: for 75 plus 2 remote. 77 total, against 5, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Prodanov, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u142	Dear Madam President, on behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. Please rest for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u143	Fifteen-minute break. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u144	Colleagues, we are continuing with the final item of today's legislative programme: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ACCEPT PROCEDURAL AGENCIES, PRESENTATION AND PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF DOCUMENTS AND HEARING OF CANDIDATES IN THE CULTURE AND MEDIA COMMISSION, AND THE PROCEDURE FOR THE SELECTION OF THE RESTRUCTURING OF THE CANDIDATES OF THE CULTURE AND MEDIA COMMISSION. Importer of the Committee on Culture and Media. Mrs. Chekanska, come in. We'll do the clearance procedure after the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u145	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe on draft decision adopting Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates as Director General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and the hearing of candidates in the Committee on Culture and Media and the procedure for election by the National Assembly At a regular meeting held on 17 December 2020, the Culture and Media Committee discussed Draft Decision on the adoption of Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates as Director General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and the hearing of candidates in the Committee on Culture and Media, as well as the procedure for selection by the National Assembly The preparation and adoption of the Rules of Procedure shall be in accordance with art. 93 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and Art. 10, para. 1 of the Law on the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency. The Bulgarian Telegraph Agency is managed and represented by a Director-General who is elected and released by the National Assembly. The term of office of the Director-General shall be 5 years. During the meeting, the People's Representative Ivan Chenchev proposed an extension of the deadline for submission of proposals for the Director-General, which was not adopted by the Commission. After the discussion and vote held with 16 votes, the Committee on Culture and Media asked the National Assembly to examine and adopt the following: Project! DECISION adopting Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates as Director General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and the hearing of candidates in the Committee on Culture and Media and the procedure for election by the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 93, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in relation to art. 10, para. 1 of the Law on the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency HAS DECIDED It shall adopt Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates as Director-General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and the hearing of candidates in the Committee on Culture and Media, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly: I. Offering candidates for Director General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency. 1. Proposals for candidates for Director-General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency may be made by parliamentary groups or by MPs. The proposals shall be submitted in writing through the President of the National Assembly to the Committee on Culture and Media by 15 January 2021 inclusive. 2. The proposals for a candidate for Director-General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency are accompanied by written reasons that justify the good professional reputation of the candidate. The following documents shall apply to the proposals: (a) written consent of the applicant in accordance with Annex No 1 to the decision; (b) a detailed CV; (c) certified by the applicant a copy of a diploma for acquired higher education with an educational and qualification degree of Master; (d) a statement in accordance with Annex 2 to the decision that the applicant has Bulgarian citizenship and meets the requirement under art. 11, para. 1, t. 1 of the Law on the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency; (e) a statement in accordance with Annex 3 to the decision that the circumstances under art. 11, para. 1, t. 4, 6 and 7 of the Law on the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency; (f) copies of a work and/or insurance licence certifying the existence of professional experience in the field of mass media, as required by art. 11, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency; (g) written consent of the applicant under art. 27, para. 2 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and Intelligence Services of the Bulgarian People's Army according to a model according to Annex No 4 to the Decision. 3. The circumstances of art. 11, para. 1, t. 5 of the Law on the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency are established by the administration of the National Assembly. II. Public disclosure of documents 1. The proposals for candidates for Director-General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency and the documents to them are published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly. 2. The publication of the proposals and the documents under point (c) of paragraph 1 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 shall be carried out in accordance with the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act. 3. Non-profit legal entities registered for public use activities and professional organisations may submit to the Culture and Media Commission no later than three days before the hearing of candidates, opinions on the proposed candidates, including questions to be asked during the hearing. 4. The mass media may send questions to the Committee on Culture and Media to candidates to be placed during the hearing no later than three days before the hearing of the candidates. 5. Anonymous opinions and alerts shall not be considered. 6. Opinions and questions shall be sent by post to the following address: gr. Sofia 1169, Pl. "Knyaz Aleksandar I" No 1, Committee on Culture and Media or by e-mail address: kkm@parliament.bg. 7. The opinions and the questions on this matter. 3 and 4 shall be published on the specialized thematic site on the website of the National Assembly within three days of their receipt, subject to the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act and the Classified Information Protection Act. III. Perform a preliminary check under the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army 1. Candidates for Director-General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency shall be checked for membership of the bodies under art. 1 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The request for prior verification under art. 27, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army are made by the President of the Committee on Culture and Media. 2. The results of the verification shall be published on the specialized thematic site on the website of the National Assembly. IV. Verification of submitted documents for admission of applicants to a hearing 1. The Committee on Culture and Media shall verify the documents submitted and whether the applicants comply with the relevant legal requirements for taking up the post. 2. The Committee on Culture and Media may require additional information from both applicants and the relevant competent authority. 3. No candidates who have not submitted the documents under Section I shall be admitted to the hearing. 2. 4. The Committee on Culture and Media shall draw up a list of applicants admitted to a hearing after the verification has been carried out. The list shall be prepared in alphabetical order of the applicant's own names and published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly. V. Hearing of candidates 1. The Committee on Culture and Media shall only listen to the applicants admitted, and the order shall be determined according to the list under Section IV, i.e. 4. 2. The hearing is held in an open meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media, which is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. 3. Each candidate shall be submitted by the proposer within two minutes for each candidate. The presentation shall also include details of the specific preparation, motivation, public reputation and public support of the applicant. 4. Each candidate is given the opportunity to present himself, including to complement his professional biography data and to present his views on the development of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency within 15 minutes. 5. Members of the National Assembly may ask questions to the candidates, including questions contained in the opinions referred to in art. 93, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. Within two minutes for each candidate. 6. The candidates shall answer their questions referred to in paragraph 1. 5 to 10 minutes. 7. The President of the Committee on Culture and Media shall present in summary the opinions and shall ask the questions received by the Committee under art. 93, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, to which no reply has been received within two minutes each. 8. The candidates shall answer their questions referred to in paragraph 1. 7 to 10 minutes. 9. A full stenographic protocol shall be drawn up from the hearing, which shall be published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly. 10. The Committee on Culture and Media shall draw up and submit to the National Assembly a report from the hearing of candidates with the content set out in art. 93, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The report shall be accompanied by a list of candidates participating in the hearing, alphabetically arranged for their own names and a draft decision to select each candidate. 11. The refusal of a candidate to participate in the hearing or withdrawal of an application by the importer shall not suspend the procedure with regard to the other candidates. VI. Election of Director General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency of the National Assembly 1. The sitting is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. The proposed candidates are present at the meeting by decision of the National Assembly. 2. The Committee on Culture and Media shall present to the National Assembly the report on the hearing of candidates. 3. Each candidate shall be submitted by the proposer within two minutes for each candidate. 4. Following the submission of the Report under point (c) of paragraph 1, the Commission shall, by means of implementing acts, adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of the report referred to in point (a) of Article 3 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council. 2 and the candidates of the National Assembly shall hold debates in accordance with the Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. 5. The vote is evident through the computerised voting system. 6. In cases where there are several candidates, the vote shall be carried out in alphabetical order on their own names, unless the National Assembly decides otherwise. 7. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. 8. If two or more candidates have received an equal number of votes, a re-vote shall be held between them. 9. In the event that none of the candidates receives the necessary votes, a re-vote shall take place, in which the two candidates who received the most votes for.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 10. In cases where, in the case of the re-voting under point (c), 9 None of the candidates received the necessary votes or when any of the candidates opted out before the election of his candidacy by the National Assembly and he was the only candidate, the National Assembly adopted a decision to open a new procedure for the election of the Director General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency. 11. When there is no candidate, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new procedure for the election of the Director-General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency by the National Assembly. VII. Obligation to declare incompatibility under art. 35, para. 1, t. 1 and a change in the declared circumstances under art. 35, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on Countering Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property 1. Within one month after the completion of the selection procedure, the elected Director-General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency shall submit a declaration of incompatibility under art. 35, para. 1, t. 1 of the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property and art. 11, para. 2 of the Law on the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency by model according to Annex No 5 to the Decision. 2. In the event of a change in the declared circumstances of the declaration referred to in point (a) of paragraph 1, the customs authorities of the Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the European Union of the other Member States of the European Union of the other Member States of the European Union of the European Union and of the other Member States of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union, of the one part, of the one part, of the other part, of the other part, of the European Union, of the other part, of the European Union, of the other part, of the other part, of the European Union, of the other part, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the one part, of the other part, of the other part, and of the other part, of the Republic of The following are six annexes to the procedural rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u146	Thank you, Mrs. Chekanska. I'm opening the debate. Colleagues, you have a say in this. I can't see. I'm putting an end to the debate and moving on to the vote. I put to the vote the submitted draft Decision adopting procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates as Director-General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Culture and Media, as well as the procedure for selection by the National Assembly, together with Annexes 1 to 6 inclusive. They voted 127 MPs: 126 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Mr. Genov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u147	My procedure is as follows, Mr President, regarding the failure of the National Assembly's decision of exactly one year ago. The National Assembly decided after the initiative of a group of MPs from the Bulgarian Socialist Party the Minister of Regional Development by 15 May 2020 to prepare and announce a public discussion Draft for a new law for the water sector, as the problems in the water sector, the refusal of measures, reforms and solutions are a trademark of this government. He has obliged to inform us twice a year about the progress in implementing the Strategy for Development and Management of the Water and, if necessary, to offer the Council of Ministers its update. The project was declared public discussion six months later. He was returned to juvie from the beginning. So far, there's been a second public discussion.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u148	Tell me the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u149	One year we have been waiting for the Minister's unsuccessful presentation of her two reports according to the decision in June and December. Today is the last session of December, and such a report was not presented in June or now.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u150	Mr. Genov...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u151	Therefore, Mr. Chairman, I regret that the President of the National Assembly, who is also obliged to exercise control over the implementation of his decisions, left, but to inform Mrs. Avramova, she is listening to me right now, as the colleague asked a question a week ago and urgently received some answer that does not resemble any report but some report. The failures, Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u152	Mr. Genov, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u153	...are your right, but duty...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u154	Actually, your time is up. You've run out of paperwork. I waited for you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u155	...to take responsibility for them is our duty.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u156	Thank you. That's where we end up. [[Reply from Minister Petya Avramova.]] Madam Minister, you want to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u157	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I just need to bring in some information about the procedure that was just made. In June, following the decision of the National Assembly, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works submitted a report, as recorded in the Decision, on the state of the water sector and the implementation of the Strategy in June. A report was submitted yesterday or that day to the President of the National Assembly, addressed to him in December, so that the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works has fulfilled its commitments and December to submit a Report on the implementation of the Strategy and State of the Water Sector in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u158	Thank you, Madam Secretary. [[Noise and lines.]] It's the way it's supposed to be. Mr. Genov, I let Mrs. Avramova answer you, but in fact, if you remember, we started the day with a message that affected that particular question. There was the answer that Mrs Avramova gave you at the moment. You have the word in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u159	Mr. Chairman, you, if you are satisfied with Mrs. Avramova's response, I am not. Explain to her that there has been no such report on the website of the Ministry of Regional Development since June. I say once again: explain to her that the announcement today and the firefighter's report and report that was submitted was that Lyubomir Bonev asked a similar question on Friday why this was not implemented. Now, to cover up the problem, we urgently presented some report to pull the number off. But as they see the Bulgarian society knows, this is exactly how it is managed by plastering the problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u160	Thank you, Mr. Genov. I have no intention of being a messenger and carrying around, but have you read the materials in the Library of the National Assembly? Have you received them? [[Reply from the National Representative Manol Genov.]] I get it. I get it. Colleagues, we continue with the debates on the questions of the MPs Georgi Svilenski, Manol Genov and Dimitar Danchev to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mrs. Petya Avramova. I'll give you the reference. Mr. Svilenski, Mr. Genov and Mr. Danchev, in connection with the debates on the questioning of the MPs, was answered at the meeting on 11 December 2020, Friday. At the same meeting, 51 MPs from the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) submitted a proposal for a debate on the questioning together with the Draft Decision. The debates are scheduled by the President of the National Assembly for the next parliamentary control meeting. The proposal for a debate on questions and the draft decision were sent to the MPs in electronic form on 11 December. Project for a solution that you are familiar with has been introduced. Which of the importers will present the question? [[Comments from GERB: "Procedure! "]] I'm sorry, I didn't see. Mr. Nenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I am doing a procedure for admission in the hall of Professor Oleg Asenov, who is a member of the Board of the Railway Infrastructure Agency.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u162	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. I shall put the proposal to the vote. Vote 95 MPs: 83 against 3, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. Please invite Professor Asenov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u163	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen of the House... [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u164	I'm sorry, we didn't understand each other. [[Heckling]] Mrs. Georgieva raised her hand several times, let's start with her. You have the floor, Mrs. Georgieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u165	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The worst year that modern mankind has ever experienced.......................................... I am tempted to remind myself that the parliamentary group of VOLIA the Bulgarian Rhodolivists on February 19th first put the question in this Chamber about Bulgaria's readiness to face the outbreak. Some of you laughed, others said that this topic is for doctors and has no place in parliament. We all know what we know next. The fact is that Volya once again demonstrated that pragmatic sense developed in the successful business where we come from, the nose of excellent managers, which is so needed by every politician. We were right, and once again. I'll remind you one more thing. At the very beginning of the mandate of the Forty-fourth National Assembly in June 2017. ... [[Loud noise.]] Mr. Chairman, I must ask you to bring order into this Chamber. Already, Madam President, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u166	Please be quiet in this room, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u167	In June 2017, Volya proposed something unusual for parliamentary life, but essential, namely, to work for a month as a priority only on health reform, in order to solve once and for all the problems in the sector. None of you, however, supported this idea. Now you're all talking about how much reform is needed because we're picking up the fruits of the health experiments that you all did while you were in power. There can no longer be experiments on the health and life of Bulgarian citizens. Many sentences I can start with the words "If you had listened to us" or "If you had listened carefully to Veselin Mareshki and his visionary suggestions." I can give examples of useful ideas to the will and to our leader, whom you refused to hear. You preferred the constant quarrel between the government and the left opposition, but only in front of the cameras. On the sidelines, you didn't have a problem agreeing on things that serve your narrow party interests. I also give an example right away: the case of state subsidies for the parties. It took you 15 minutes. It would be great if you understood each other just as quickly about measures in the interests of the Bulgarians. This is what was missing in this Parliament during these difficult months of testing both for the world and for Bulgaria together, a thought for the people. How did the Bulgarians live this year? How were they treated? And as hard as it is, I'll say this: how did they die? Because the examples of inhumane treatment of sick people because of the disorder in hospitals have astonished us all. [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u168	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u169	Colleagues, we all hope that this unprecedented health precedent that has led to so many victims, to the collapse of economies, to global problems, will cause us to change, to become more responsible, more compassionate and more human next year. In our society, we have amassed great despair and aggression. Negativism is pouring all over us. This is the wrong way. There is neither development nor happiness nor prosperity. The example of change should come from us, from politicians. It is not the time for personal ambitions, for political stubbornness and for close party interests. 2021 will be an extremely important year for Bulgaria. A new parliament is about to be elected, which means that the people will indicate how they want to live in the coming years. In just a month, all power candidates will start filming themselves with the people, promising them once again a bright future. All of a sudden, all of a sudden, they're gonna think of problems that we at WALK have been alarming for four years. As I mentioned, urgent and cardinal reforms in healthcare, improving the quality of education, security even in the smallest villages, caring for adult and educated parents for small and medium-sized businesses. That's why we launched the free drug campaign for the kids. 14 years old, who are students, as well as pensioners over the age of 65. An important and useful measure in this difficult situation. You didn't support us. And nearly 200,000 Bulgarians said to that idea. We didn't ask everyone. There's probably millions of them. During the past year the parliamentary group of Volya was a responsible opposition. We supported the useful measures for the Bulgarians, criticized ideas that are infertile, non-professional or lobbyist. We tried to make the right decisions so that Bulgaria would develop steadily, without unnecessary shocks and risks. We were often criticized for this. But at the end of the day, reasonable people realized that we were right. Politics is not gambling. Politics is responsibility. We believe that this is the right behavior for a responsible and patriotic party, such as the Volk. Thus we will continue until the end of the term, as in the next, if the people want to be represented by people who are not entangled in corruption schemes, who are here with the one thought to be useful to their society and country. Colleagues, we've got a complicated year ahead of us. Let us be aware of the responsibility that everyone who calls himself a politician brings to the people, especially in this difficult period. May he have more sense and empathy for the problems of our countrymen. Over politics, over any party purpose, over ego is humanity. Let's not forget it. Let the New Year bring us all health and much better days for all Bulgarians! Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u170	Thank you, dear Mrs. Georgieva. Let's continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. Debates on the questioning of the MPs Georgi Svilenski, Manol Genov and Dimitar Danchev to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a reform of the road toll policy. I give Mr. Svilensky the floor to present to us the proposal and the draft decision. Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u171	Yes, thank you. Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister, Mr. Asenov! If we make a quick reference to the Law of the present National Assembly, we will find that at the request of citizens hundreds of questions have been asked by MPs regarding the repair or construction of various roads and road facilities throughout the country. The answers to these questions by Mrs. Avramova and her predecessor Mr. Nankov are practically blank and can be summarized in one single sentence. [[Relations of the National Representative Vejdi Rashidov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u172	Mr. Rashidov, please! [[Relations of the National Representative Vejdi Rashidov.]] Quiet, please! [[Relations of the National Representative Vejdi Rashidov.]] Mr. Svilensky, continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u173	The repair is necessary, but it will be done when the system is running. Well, fellow Members, this has become a dream of our dreams, because billions of toll fees have turned out to be a mirage. The Prime Minister and his ministers have convinced us that with the electronic system for collecting tolls, the fair principle will be introduced: who pollutes and destroys the roads more, pays more. However, the first year of the toll system accounts show that car owners paid twice as much as those of buses and trucks. The fact is that the money printer, as Prime Minister Borisov called it a long time ago, fails even to cover the investments made for the construction of the electronic system. From BSP from the very beginning of the emergence of the idea of building a toll system and for dividing the charging of cars and heavy goods vehicles we repeatedly insisted on a few simple but very important things: First, the system should be introduced gradually, with only initial coverage of highways and roads first, possibly second class. Secondly, tariffs to be set and carefully communicated with the transport industry, long before the start of the toll system. Thirdly, in relation to the tariffs and scope set, a system that is primarily effective and ensures the collection of sufficient resources to build and maintain a modern road infrastructure should be chosen. Fourth, an operator of the Tol system with relevant access to sensitive information which is guaranteed within the system should be only the State, setting up for that purpose a state-owned undertaking to manage a system, implementing the necessary interaction with the systems of the Ministry of Interior and the Customs Agency and, of course, to collect users' revenues. Apart from everything BSP said, the government paid 20 million. lv. The World Bank's report on the introduction of the Tol system in Bulgaria, which, although having its shortcomings, contained a major part of BSP's proposals. For each of these points we made the relevant proposals for legal changes and initiated several questions and hearings, including Prime Minister Boyko Borisov. Unfortunately, our voice remained a voice in the wilderness and the results of this lack of hearing from the rulers are visible to everyone. From January to December this year, 2.5 times more revenue has been collected from electronic wineries than from toll fees. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, and from tol's fees,.. 103 million. BGN, for the period 1 January 8 December 2020 The revenue from toll charges set out in budget 2020 was 450 million. BGN, which means that the default will be more than 3 times. It is not yet clear whether last year's results can be achieved when the revenue from electronic wineries exceeds 392 million. lv. As of 8 December, the revenue from wine and tolls amounted to 361 million. lv. Another paradox is that initially under the contract the system had to be owned by the Bulgarian state, in this particular case the key to access it to be in API, it really turned out that this would not happen until five years later and for another 141 million. BGN, except for the 180 million already paid. lv. for building the system. In practice, the system is granted a concession. The reason? National rule had no capacity to manage the ordered unique tol system. However, I remind you that around 900 staff members are assigned to this department. Furthermore, we cannot help but ask ourselves: what are the warranty conditions in relation to the placing into service of the electronic system? Is maintenance and service of the system planned after it is put into service, under what conditions? Are these relationships settled by an additional contract or are they part of the basic contract? What is the role of API employees who monitor the functioning of the system and do they perform activities that should be performed by contractors under the contract with the Consortium Capps? In this regard, I can not help but remind another lie, of the previous, but a long-standing Minister of Regional Development by GERB Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova, who assured us that the state will be the sole owner and owner of the electronic toll system, with the words said before BNT in January 2017, namely: "These are clean, I would call them lobbying interests of companies who wanted to sell their own systems. We have bet so in the documents the auction that the system is Bulgarian, the rights, the sorcerer to be Bulgarian, the Ministry and the Agency, not to be given in foreign hands, not to pay licenses. We want our Bulgarians with our rights to rule. These are elements of national security, so there is also one such interest here. In the current situation in Bulgaria, however, the financial risk for the construction of the system has not been borne by Kapsh. They will actually receive a fixed amount of 22 million. lv. per year, without being responsible for the amount of revenue from tolls. In fact, the fiasco of the Tol system was known by the many scandals caused by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and by the API, even during the very award of the order for the construction of the electronic toll system, as well as during its implementation. For example, weeks before the executor was elected, in September 2017, a false decision of the Road Agency was issued with which the API awarded the order to The case was handed over to the State Agency "National Security" and the anonymous hackers at the time claimed that it was about the actual ranking, which was known before the opening of the bids. In any case, on the documents the ranking was different from the final result, but the winner really turned out to be Capps. In fact, there are a lot of ambiguities here about the methodology for assessing candidates' submitted offers, where sub-items are contained to assess the technical proposal, which do not have clearly defined scales to distinguish one proposal from another, and to place the relevant number of points. Unclear to this day remains also in what way is the estimated value of the contract determined and by whom? The big problems, however, began after the signing of the treaty, namely that with a series of moves the state put itself in a bad position, and the Consortium was very favorable in terms of money and deadlines. The first such step was the supplementary agreement, which totally changed the terms and subject matter of the order. For example, the original contract provided for 40% of the amount to be paid only when the electronic screw system was running and all the control points were installed and the rest of the money was installed when the toll started. That, of course, means a financial risk that companies had to take. Instead, with the help of the Anex contractor received the money in two instalments and the first was paid at an earlier stage. Some problems have been dropped, and the deadlines have been postponed. The agreement was frankly contrary to the Public Procurement Act, as it seriously amended the mandate and conditions. According to gross calculations, the activities that were saved were worth 20 million. lv. The estimated estimate has shown that it is difficult to talk about overlap of the value of the new activities with the dropouts. However, the amount of the contract remained 180 million. lv. with VAT. We wonder what it was with an additional agreement to make a change to the payment scheme of the contractor and whether the signed additional agreement did not cover a delay in implementation, that is to say, did it simplify the imposition of penalties for the late execution of the contract? It would also be interesting to see if at the time the system was put into service the technical assignment of 100% or part of the functions set out in the job was completed and tested after the final payment was made. In addition, several months later, it turns out that Kapsh is also indirectly involved in the sale of wine and tolls itself.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u174	Get to the finish line, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u175	The first elected national provider of services between the Road Infrastructure Agency becomes an intelligent traffic system, which only in Bulgaria had contractual relations with Kapsh. Before the establishment of the Bulgarian tol system. The company signed an indicative contract with the Road Infrastructure Agency in mid-December 2018 before even the final general conditions for applying were published. The intermediary in question shall receive a commission of 7% of all tolls collected. [[It said that time had run out.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u176	It's time's up!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u177	Let's do it in speaking time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u178	All right, take the speaking time. Go on!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u179	At the moment, the same holds a significant percentage of market share and sells more wine, and from the very national toll. We cannot fail to recall that despite the resistance of the BSP, the ruling majority changed the Roads Act in 2019 so that GPS companies could not submit directly data to API and conclude contracts with the state and should use national service providers as intermediary. Until then, API's plan to work directly with these GPS companies, which are apparently so-called data providers. It is clear that the issues surrounding the preparation of the procurement for the electronic charging system for the use of a Republican road network and the implementation of the concluded contract, including the supplementary agreement thereto, are extremely many, and some of them can lead to the identification of indicators for fraud committed. Additional questions arise in connection with the subsequent operation of the electronic system. The amount of public funds spent and those to be invested, and complementary or continuing activities for monitoring and management of the electronic system are significant and therefore the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria is proposing that the National Assembly accept the following: ? RESPONSIBILITY? The National Assembly on the basis of art. 90, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 105, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and Art. 7, para. 1 of the Law on the Court of Auditors HAS DECIDED Instructs the Court of Auditors to carry out an audit of compliance in the conclusion and implementation of the Public Procurement Contracts of the Road Infrastructure Agency with regard to the design, construction and operation of an electronic charging system for the use of a Republican road network. The verification shall cover the period from the start of the design of the system to the end of 2020. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u180	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. A big round of applause. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. [[Noise and lines.]] Hey, guys, no speeches?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u181	There are no speeches. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u182	Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u183	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Madame Minister! My colleagues and I feel extremely satisfied that we succeeded with our questions to you a week ago on the subject of the Tol system, in the country to provoke serious public interest. Your response here from this platform of parliament last Friday has already been the subject of a very devastating discussion in both the media and civil forums, among analysts and experts. However, to cover themselves with common tales, the situations that put the work of this toll system, it is more than clear that there are many pending questions about this rather questionable and secretive system that you called a unique system last Friday. However, we at the BSP are obliged to repeat and further develop our questions to you and the government until we get the real answers, not general talk, a series and a bunch of numbers that you interpret in quite different ways. We are not the only ones who continue to wonder why such a huge administration has undertaken to do such a uniform activity. Officials of the Tol system "900 state," are the DMV, the Road Police and the Road Infrastructure Agency and the Ministry of Interior. In countries like Germany, with which we always compare and never succeed, are they stupider than us to have a single institution to cover with all the powers this type of activity? You alone seem to be eligible for the cost of the toll system. The figures show that for the three quarters of 2020, the expenditure of the National Tol Government is over 60 million. lv. and add to them 28 million a year, which is expected to be added with the future annex to be concluded. Well, don't you worry about those costs of 90 million. lv. A year? Even more hopeless, it seems, if you admit, of course, that no one promises an increase in investment in the country's roads against this annual expenditure. The failure in the revenue part of the Tol system has quite another explanation, which is perhaps more than you wish.. not as much the crisis around the pandemic is guilty as the misunderstood prime minister's generosity to reduce income in the pleasure of anyone who wants. The Tol system fell victim to this populism, that's what people say, read it, and we're just making it public right now. Have you forgotten, Madam Minister, that at the beginning of the toll system you promised 11,000. A kilometer range from the Republican road network? Following appropriate reactions, this was reduced to 6,000. km, finally they survived 3115 km by some sources, and only highways and first class roads. It is not the crisis, and the failure at the start of the Tol system that causes a few days before the end of 2020 to be faced with the clear figures that we have three times less annual revenues than the 450 million actually bets, and according to different figures, 140. Finally, I will finish with what I stressed a week ago: when will you tell the whole truth about the 141 million. BGN, which in the next five years you are going to pay on behalf of the state of the company operator? Do you, Madam Minister, that the state interest as a service and revenue is sufficiently protected, since the state in the face of the Roads Service will actually have access to the toll system after five years? You mentioned last Friday that this contract has an option not to be extended. Do we understand that the presumption is to continue? Mrs. Avramova, this is not a system, but it is frankly like a pre-organized scheme and it is really unique in the way it is organized and created. We strongly believe that the time will come, and the Bulgarian just prosecution will come to take an interest in this unique uniqueness. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u184	Thank you, Mr. Genov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Statements? Here you go, Mr. Shishkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u185	Madam President, honourable Members! I will begin with some of the words of the colleague who spoke before me, namely that they are trying to provoke some public debate on this subject. I think it's not exactly a debate, and you're trying to provoke another fictional scandal in the country to go through the holidays and the homes of people in these bright times. The truth about the system is that it works with a very good success. The system is one of the most innovative in Europe, I would say, in the world and is one of the most modern, most flexible and dynamic. It's a fact that no one can argue with. With regard to the financing of the system itself, each of you in this Chamber is aware that it is the Bulgarian tol system that is the cheapest in the whole European Union and with the cheapest support. It's a fact, everyone can see it from the documents. I do not need to do a comparative analysis with the Austrian, French, German, Hungarian, if you will, and each one is worth more than ours as putting into service and as maintenance. With regard to what you said at the end and your question regarding these additional arrangements that are envisaged with the contractor. This is about a very normal process, which is practice in all European countries, namely the maintenance and monitoring of the system. The system is not something we can take from the counter and use it, consume it for a long time. It is a living organism, it is a dynamic process that develops over time that requires its updates, its change, replacement, maintenance and so on. It is for this purpose that this contract was made, and the idea is, as you mentioned, that the Source code should remain in the country. It is state-owned, but the know-how itself requires a long time for its acquisition because it cannot be a system that has been built years and which requires a lot of effort and resources, in several months to be transferred purely technical to specialists who have never worked with it. It takes sufficient time for these specialists to enter matter and acquire the necessary knowledge to ensure the stability and continuity of the processes. In the end, if in just three days the system's work is stopped or stopped, it will result in huge budget losses and great chaos in the system. So these are the reasons why these actions are taken and there is nothing hidden, on the contrary, everything is open, publicly, uploaded to the sites and any one of you can get acquainted with it. In addition, I would say that the Bulgarian system is one of the few in Europe that started successfully from the first time. For the most part, countries have managed to successfully launch their toll systems from the second or third time. In Bulgaria started from the first time, of course, with slight problems that were solved at the moment. By finishing, I would like to tell you that your proposal will be supported by us. We agree with you and with your people that all processes in the country must be public and must be made public to the maximum extent of society. I therefore support the idea of a full audit of this entire process and for the public to once and for all know what has happened over the past two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u186	Thank you, dear Mr. Shishkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate, colleagues. Mrs. Avramova, please say something within 2 minutes, of course. Here you are, Mrs Avramova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u187	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Recently, in the last two years, many things have been said in this hall and beyond about the introduction of the electronic charging system on the Republican road network. Facts are facts and no political attack can neglect them. For two years Bulgaria has a working, reliable and fast electronic charging system for crossing the Republican road network. We have an intelligent system that works in the service of people, assists control bodies, assists institutions. The future is in digitalization and it cannot be stopped. Such a serious reform cannot take place in one day, but it is also the case with all significant changes. It takes time, regardless of whether they are in the economy, culture, the health sector or roads. Remember that it wasn't far away when we were all sticking wine stickers on the windows of our cars, and today wineries are bought online and from the comfort of the home, even straight from the phone. The system is constantly upgraded with new functionality in the service of consumers and to help law enforcement authorities. And here I want to thank all the employees of the National Toll Administration and all those who work in the administration, those who operate the system daily, those who are on the road every day who do not pity time and effort in their work. I also thank the Bulgarian citizens for their patience, and thank the business. Their support was important to us. Two years after the introduction of the electronic system is an irreversible fact and the benefits of its existence grow with each passing day. It is not insignificant to note, unfortunately, that the introduction of the tol system for heavy traffic coincided with the Kovid pandemic time, which is a test for all. The transport sector is also going through its problems. All of this is according to the analysis of colleagues from the Agency of Road Infrastructure. However, the revenues from toll fees are 6% higher compared to the receipts last year from electronic wineries for motor vehicles over 3.5 tonnes. The increase is despite the reduction of transport and transport distances and the actual charge of only 3115 km of roads. The analysis also shows that heavy traffic is mainly serviced by the channels of the Road Infrastructure Agency through the site, via mobile application, through the self-service terminals, through the points of the regional road management. The share is about 66% and the most used service is the route map. What do the analysis show? The Bulgarian system is complex and is one of the most effective in quality/price ratio. If we compare it with the systems in the countries, such as Germany, Austria and Slovakia, we will see that even with its current coverage, its acquisition price is at times lower, not only as a total value, but also because it charges both heavy traffic on a toll basis and passenger cars on a time basis. Usually in other countries, the two methods are introduced, maintained and operated independently... [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u188	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u189	I would like to point out one more thing: the electronic system is also a tool for controlling and preventing the grey economy. In other words, not only the direct benefits of its introduction must be taken into account, such as the provision of funds for the repair and construction of Republican roads, an easier method of payment, justice when paying tol fees under the scheme which it destroys more, it pays more and the indirect benefits must be noted. Data show that there are increased incomes from declared more realized courses by transport companies, which is a real success for lightening the sector... [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u190	Colleagues, please be quiet in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u191	...and this means greater income from taxes in the treasury, as well as equal treatment of all carriers. The important question for me is, where do we go from here? Our policy in the future will be towards a change in the scope of the paid road network, and more road sections will be included gradually, which are used intensively by heavy traffic, such as politics in other European countries. I stress that this will be done by changing the relevant acts both in line with the economic situation in the country and in the course of the active dialogue with the transport industry. Ten hundred miles of Republican roads are prepared for transportation. It won't be difficult to increase the scope, but it will happen at the right time. I don't believe there's anyone who thinks now is the time and time in which we need to cause tremors. In the conditions of a crown crisis, when keeping each place is important, our goal is not to bankrupt businesses. Reforms in different sectors of socio-economic life in the country can occur when there is unification and support from everyone, regardless of political affiliation. That is why my appeal is for more objectivity and consideration of new realities. My personal belief is that it is time to confront and politicize every topic of our lives to give way to expertise and pragmatism. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u192	Thank you, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u193	Dear Members of Parliament, allow me on the last day of this session of the National Assembly to wish you a bright Christmas holiday! Be healthy! [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u194	Thank you, Madam Secretary. You too have a bright Christmas and New Year's holidays! Colleagues, I vote on the draft decision on the questions, No 054-05-44 of 23 October 2020, by the MPs Georgi Svilenski, Manol Genov and Dimitar Danchev to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on the reform of the road toll policy. They voted 101 MPs: 97, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Mr. Vigenin, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u195	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I propose that we extend the working time until the parliamentary control provided for today is exhausted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u196	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Please vote on the procedure so made. Colleagues, I ask that we support Mr Vigenin's proposal, as there are several questions that should not be passed in the next parliamentary session because they will be running out of time. Vote 108 MPs: for 106, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. To all colleagues who will not stay in this Chamber, I wish you a bright holiday and until the next session alive and well! Written responses were received from: - Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy and Tourism Minister Mariana Nikolova on a question from the National Representative Hristo Prodanov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Yordanov; - Minister of Interior Hristo Terziyski on a question from the National Representative Georgi Yordanov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva on a question from the MPs Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on eight issues from the National Representative Dora Yankova; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva on a question from the National Representative Dora Yankova; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva on a question from the MPs Mihail Hristov, Lalo Kirilov, Chavdar Velinov, Krasimir Yankov, Georgi Andreev, Nikolai Ivanov and Dimitar Stoyanov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on a question from the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the MPs Lyubomir Bonev and Nikola Dinkov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Lyubomir Bonev; - Minister of Interior Hristo Terziyski on a question from the National Representative Teodora Halacheva; - Minister of Interior Hristo Terziyski on a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Yavor Bozhankov; - Minister of Interior Hristo Terziyski on a question from the MPs Dimitar Stoyanov and Chavdar Velinov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva on two issues from the National Representative Nadia Klisurska-Zekova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works of a Question from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova. Here you go, Mr. Manov, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u197	Honourable Members, in the framework of a minor violation of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly and in the spirit of the holidays ahead, I address you in the framework of a procedure, but in fact with one request. Due to the severe situation with the coronavirus, many of the initiatives on a charity initiative for the children of the fallen and injured employees of the Ministry of Interior will not take place this year. So I turn to all of you and to the citizens who look at us at 1866 a SMS for these individuals, so that we can this year as well as other years help them feel part of the celebration and celebrations. Thank you, Madam President. I apologize for breaking the rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u198	That message was important. Thank you, Mr. Manev. There are no new requests for the period from 11 December to 17 December 2020. We are going with questions to Denitsa Sacheva, Minister of Labour and Social Policy. The first question is from the MP Nadia Klisurska-Zhekova on socio-economic measures for the persons under art. 4, para. 3 of the Social Security Code. Here you are, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u199	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister Sacheva, it has been almost ten months since the beginning of the pandemic and, unfortunately, a large group of people who are importing into the tax and insurance systems have remained outside the scope of adequate socio-economic measures. These are self-insuring persons that fall within the hypotheses of art. 3 of the Code of Social Security. The owners of small family business, the free professions, the people of art, merchants, craftsmen. A large part of the measures that were granted to self-insuring persons were linked to interest-free loans. I believe that this measure is extremely ineffective because only 22 thousand people have benefited from it, and the resource used is about 90 million. lv. If we follow the other economic measures, we will see that for short-term employment, but if we see the refusals to self-insured persons, we will see that, within the scope of this short-term employment measure for the sector, Restauranting and tourism is also not effective for this group. If we see the group, which also includes self-insured persons with regard to that measure, which is granted to parents on unpaid leave, Mrs. Sacheva, not all self-insuring persons have children after all. Two hundred thousand people fall into the hypotheses of self-insured persons and, to my great regret, by today, by 10 months later, this group is not covered by an adequate socio-economic measure such as the measure 60/40, such as the measure That's one of the hypotheses. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The other hypothesis is these people, after all, as self-insuring actually are not on unpaid leave. What measures do you provide, dear Mrs. Sacheva, for self-insuring persons? I also asked these questions to the Minister of Economy and Deputy Prime Minister Mariana Nikolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u200	The weather, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u201	Unfortunately, the answer I received was that the measure 60/40 relates to them. No, unfortunately, it's not, so I expect an adequate response. I hope this group has already come into the review of the socio-economic adequate measures to be taken for this group as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u202	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska. I intend to be strict today in parliamentary control. I'm gonna cut you off a little bit from the back. You have the floor, Madam Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u203	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Ms. Klisurska-Zekova, from the first days of the birth pandemic of COVID-19 the government and in particular the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy prepared a package of measures to protect the health of all Bulgarian citizens in support of the income and jobs of workers in the most affected sectors and to provide food and medicines for the representatives of the most vulnerable groups. Within weeks after the announcement of the state of emergency on 13 March, we developed and in early April we launched the measure 60/40 to pay compensation for the preservation of jobs, with the support we gave to the Bulgarian business, we managed to preserve almost 250 thousand jobs and 100% of the employment income of the employed. In some of the most affected sectors, such as hospitality and restaurant, tourism and transport, we have developed a separate support measure for which employers can receive 290 BGN. for each reserved place of work. This instrument is combined with the measure 60/40 and receives funds to pay 80% of their employees' salaries. So far, 17 million have been paid on it. lv. for 1573 enterprises, thus preserving the employment of 23 700 workers. The short-term employment measure supports 264 self-instructions - 77 of them for transport, 22 for hotels, 86 for restaurant services, 45 of them are tour operators. The main measure for self-insuring persons is the measure with interest-free loans of up to BGN 4500, which is provided with a guarantee from the Bulgarian Development Bank. You know that the condition has now been changed and can benefit from up to 6900 by 31 March 2021. Commercial banks have submitted nearly 36 thousand requests for financing from individuals and from them to the Bulgarian Development Bank have been submitted and approved accordingly 22 945 requests with a total amount of 95 million. 923 thousand. BGN 487. Of the above, self-insuring persons were 5869 who received 24 million. 952,000. BGN 896. I note that self-insuring individuals who have BULSTAT and represent traders within the meaning of the law can also apply under the BBI's Guarantee Programme for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises on the basis of their turnover. In order to ensure adequate and timely support, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for more families changed the criteria for receiving targeted assistance from families with children up to 14 years of age who study from a distance. This support can benefit people on unpaid leave, self-insuring persons who are forced to suspend their activities, as well as unemployed without the right to compensation or with less compensation than the minimum wage. The maximum income of a family with one child should be BGN 2745 and for a family with two children - BGN 3660. To date, 34 482 applications have been accepted to grant this monthly aid. Among them are self-insuring faces. So far 29 227 families have been approved to receive assistance for 29 850 children enrolled in the first grade and support will also be granted 23 671 families for 24 162 eighth graders. Since 2021, the income criterion for receiving both types of aid will be removed, allowing all children enrolled in public and municipal schools to receive these funds. A target of 15 million has also been allocated. lv. in the Ministry of Culture to assist free artists and self-insuring persons in the field of culture. Last but not least, I would like to stress that municipalities in whose territories there are real ethnographic complexes also received subsidies to support craftsmen in them by up to 5 thousand. lv. Every single one of them. [[the President signals that time has run out]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u204	Thank you, Mrs. Sacheva. Here you are, Mrs. Klisurska, for your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u205	[[BSP for Bulgaria]] : Mr President, honourable Members! Dear Minister Sacheva, if we read the recommendations in the European Commission Report within the European Semester, we will see that in them one of the main recommendations was related to making such a socio-economic measure that would be permanently aimed only at self-insuring persons. The other day there was an opinion of the European Confederation of Trade Unions, which states that only Bulgaria, Croatia and Cyprus did not include in their support the self-employed persons on that 1 billion loan, which we will receive at the European Institute for Employment Conservation. Why, Minister Sacheva? From the answer you gave in the first part of my questions, you have again addressed measures that do not affect self-insured persons. From the figures that you have set out, it is clear that the short-term employment measure covers around 400 self-insuring persons with 200,000 registered persons. You mentioned the loans, but I believe that this measure is not effective because 22,000 self-insured individuals have benefited from it. And a little analysis that I think I should not do, but you should prepare to see if you are properly targeting the affected groups. I can tell you that in terms of that support, which was for free artists, you introduced rewards from which they must have received up to 1000 leva. Many free artists do not receive permanent remuneration, they receive fees, so they did not fall within the scope of the measure for free artists. With regard to another group, which is self-serving, these are the lawyers. They were also affected by the crisis, but do not fall into those speeds that can secure this support. Not to mention those small shops where families end up providing themselves and do not have more than 30 thousand working funds to get into this measure, which you said the economic measure with grant schemes. So I think it's about time you thought about this group. In my opinion, it is important to have a targeted measure for self-insuring people, because I have in front of me the register of all European Member States of the European Union, all have such a targeted measure and I think it is adequate and normal to do so in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u206	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. Would you like the floor? Thank you, Mrs. Sacheva, for your time. The next question is from the MP Smilyana Nieva on measures to assist foster parents from the beginning of the pandemic. Here you are, Ms. Niva, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u207	Dear Mr. Vigenin! Dear Mrs. Sacheva, according to the Social Assistance Agency in Haskovo region there are 118 foster parents. These data are from the beginning of the year. At the same time, Haskovo region is from regions where there is a shortage of foster families. My question is: what measures were taken to assist foster parents during the pandemic? How many disabled children are raised in Haskovo region by foster parents and are they given additional monthly benefits? Are measures envisaged to further stimulate families who wish to become foster parents?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u208	Thank you, dear Mrs. Niva. Come in for an answer, Mrs. Sacheva. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u209	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Niva, foster care is a measure of child protection that enables many children at risk to be raised in a family environment. Currently, about 2,000 children are raised in foster families in Bulgaria. In particular, 113 foster families were registered in the register of established foster families on 8 December 2020 and they were all professional. At present, 100 children are accommodated in Haskovo in nearly 90 foster families, as well as in 10 of the foster families 11 children with disabilities are accommodated. To address the challenges posed by the spread of COVID-19, we have taken urgent measures, including to provide financial and material support to those in need, to provide appropriate forms of quality and affordable services, and others. Foster families are also entitled to take advantage of these measures. They may also receive the new monthly target aid for children up to the age of 14 under a declared emergency or declared emergency epidemic situation, and the families of relatives or relatives who have children accommodated shall also have the right to this assistance. Since 1 July 2020, a new one-off aid has been regulated for students enrolled in the VIII class, which is in essence similar to that of entering into the 1st grade. Both types of aid are granted without a benefit test for children placed in the families of relatives and relatives or foster families. Also, foster families and families of relatives or relatives receive benefits under the Family Aids Act for children without an income test. Under child protection regulations, all foster families receive monthly funds for the children they raise and additional supplements are provided for children with disabilities. Professional foster families also receive remuneration for their care. Foster families, as well as families of relatives and relatives, can also receive single help up to four times a year. Changes to the Rules for the Implementation of the Child Protection Act will be adopted, which will update the dimensions of the monthly funds, the one-off aid and the additional supplement for a disabled child. Foster families and children who are accommodated in them can also use all available network of consultative daily forms of social services completely free of charge. These families are also entitled to substitute care. Changes to the Rules for the Implementation of the Child Protection Act will also regulate the procedure for the use of substitution care by foster parents and families of relatives and relatives in which children are accommodated under the Child Protection Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u210	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Ms. Niva. Thank you. We move on to the next question by the MPs Tsvetan Topchiev and Philip Popov on closing of the Adult House with mental retardity in the village of Kudelin. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u211	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister! Dear Mrs. Sacheva, the Vidin region is one of the most backward not only in the European Union but also in Bulgaria. Part of this expensive region is the municipality of Bregovo, where the residence for adults with mental disabilities is situated, namely in the village of Kudelin. The Vidin region is in one of the first places on unemployment, ageing population, depopulation, basically a demographic disaster. You're a social minister, I don't know if you're really aware of the severe effect that's going to bring about the closing of the House in the village of Kudelin. Here is our question with colleague Tsvetan Topchiev: since the home in the village of Cudelin was not included in the preliminary plan for closing these homes by 2022, what does its recent closure require, and in the face of a severe medical, economic and social crisis in the country? Dear Minister, we are well aware that this type of homes should be closed, but why should it be started from the House in the village of Kudelin? Will this solve the problems there, or will it aggregate and accumulate new serious and social problems in the municipality and in the region? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u212	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. You have the floor to answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u213	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Popov, I would like to inform you that it is not started with the House in the village of Kudelin and it is not about the urgent and rapid closure of this house, because its closure is in 2021. I believe that everyone in Bulgaria knows about the Report of the European Committee on the Prevention of Torture and Human Degradation, or the penalties imposed since August 2020 for violating the rights of persons living in the House. Unfortunately, verification of the Agency for the Quality of Social Services confirmed the findings of the European Committee. It is established that the number of registered users in the House is 105, but their actual number is 88 people. Two users have been declared a national search. According to the Director of the House, six users live in families in the municipalities of Bregovo and Novo village and do not reside in the institution, but continue to be held as accommodated users and to pay a fee. The Commission which carried out the verification did not receive an answer to the question where are the other eight persons who do not live in the House. In this regard, the mayor of the municipality of Bregovo was informed of the necessary action. The number of employees is insufficient, as part of the state numbers are also used for other municipal activities. The Agency's verification of the quality of social services has established that the House's financial resources deviate for the remuneration of persons who do not work in the specialised institution. It is found that the appointed nurses on a schedule raise animals and during that time do not take care of consumers and hygiene in the House. Only the basic living needs of accommodated persons are provided, with little social work being done with them. There are no health and social support services in the community on the territory of the municipality. The personal means of consumers do not benefit from them. The verification also made it clear that the material base is not in good condition, and there is no public transport to the House. The Commission's conclusions are that people living in the House are neglected, psychological violence is exercised on them and care for them is not in line with the existing national and international standards in this area. The results of the verification are summarised in a report with specific proposals and measures submitted to the Supreme Administrative Prosecutor's Office on 30 November this year. Poor treatment of disabled persons in the House is the main reason why the competent authorities decided to take steps to close it. The fact that this house was not included in the 2018 Action Plan for the period 2018 - 2021 for the implementation of the National Strategy for Long-term Care does not mean that in the case of poor quality of services for those living there it cannot be closed. § 34 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Social Services Act provides for such homes to be closed by 1 January 2035. The crisis caused by the spread of COVID-19 is also not an argument to neglect a particularly vulnerable group of individuals, such as those with intellectual difficulties, but, on the contrary, even more effort must be made to prevent their rights being violated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u214	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Topchiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u215	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Minister, Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Sacheva, I must tell you that someone has misled you. That's not how it works in this house at all. We understand and support the organisation's operation as a process, but it implies serious reforms in the functioning of all systems and sectors. These are processes that cause profound changes in the overall care and support system. These changes are difficult to plan and manage administratively and centrally. The municipality of Bregovo, as a provider of these services, has worked very actively and purposefully over the years in the process of deinstitutionalization. Seven family-type accommodation centers, one protected dwelling, were found. Six more units of the resident type are under construction, which is not the case in your report. The home for adult children with mental retardity in the village of Kudelin has existed for more than 50 years. It accommodates users who are 18 years old, until their death. There are people living there for 20 years. They've created almost family ties with the staff. Do you understand this thing?! They call them mother, father, brother. I'm personally witnessing this thing. And you want this thing to end?! Did anyone ask them if they wanted to leave this house, shut it down? What's going to happen to them? What about this relationship and dependence? The House employs about 70 staff, which may be insufficient. Such are the recommendations of the Committee of Europe on Human Rights. These specialists have passed training, they have specialization. In most homes, COVID is allowed. No illness has been admitted to the House of Cudelin. This speaks of highly specialised, adequate staff care, which in the report is absolutely false. Is it normal during a Lockdown, during a mid-winter crisis to make these people redundant and left out of work, which is happening in the poorest region of Europe, Bulgaria?! [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Are you, as social minister, okay with this thing? Over the years, many funds have been invested to improve the conditions, on the material basis of consumers, which is reflected in almost all reports prior to September of this month. What's gonna happen to this material base, or are we just gonna throw it away? There's a problem, there's an institution, we're going to ask for it, and we're going to solve the problem. I don't think that's a problem. Therefore, I suggest that you reconsider your decision on the urgent closure of the House in Kudelin and allow the Municipality of Bregovo to continue with the process of deinstitutionalization with the least concussion and trauma for consumers and staff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u216	Thank you, Mr. Topchiev. You have the floor for a line, if you like. No. Thank you, Mrs. Sacheva, for participating in today's parliamentary control. Let's wish you a happy holiday and a successful next year! We continue with the questions to the Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov. The first one is from the MPs Anastas Popdimitrov and Nona Yotova on measures to protect the health and life of the actors in the conditions of the CIVID-19 epidemic. Here you are, Mr. Popdimitrov, to develop your question, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u217	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, as the state of emergency entered this year on March 13th, stage appearances were banned. Over time the measures were loosened, as they say, separate performances began to appear and in almost all stage institutes in the territory of the country to carry out performances under certain conditions. Mechanisms have been created to protect the audience, which is very important through a chair, through two disinfectants, temperature measurement and all that is needed to protect the health of the audience. During all this time, however, nothing has been done as requirements and measures to protect the health of artists, the staff working in these institutes. You probably know that the Bulgarian performing arts are working under certain financial rules, so-called delegated funding, and that a cultural institute can exist only if it realises certain revenue that enables it to operate. Otherwise his indicators go into the minus column and he's bound to work them out after a while. This gave the stage institutes an incentive to start mass activity, unlike, let's say, from the cinemas that have remained closed to this day, in my opinion unexplained to this day; galleries, museums that have had great opportunities to work in certain streams, admitting certain numbers inside, but they have been melted. For me, the truth is in the financial rules on which these arts work. Over time, mass contaminations of colleagues began. The local directors were given the opportunity to make decisions. Even Getting to Meetings [[the President signals that time has run out]] In which one against another colleagues say whether they agree or not to play. Unfortunately, this also led to the death of many colleagues. Whether there are many or not a matter of judgment, but for me even one life is a 100% loss of a universe. My point is: was there not an opportunity to make rules for the work of the creative and administrative compositions of these institutions? What will you do in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u218	Thank you, Mr. Popdimitrov. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u219	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Popdimitrov, Mrs. Yotova, in relation to the declared exceptional epidemic situation with my orders, temporary anti-epidemic measures have been introduced in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria which concern general anti-epidemic and restrictive measures regarding various activities. In addition to cultural activities and events where the collection of persons is supposed to be possible to carry out the transmission mechanism of the cause of COVID-19 and subsequent disease to susceptible persons. At present, all cultural events are suspended - cinemas, museums, galleries, stage events and concerts, except for theatres that can work in the workplace up to 30% of their total capacity; physical distance of at least a meter and a half and mandatory placement of facial masks. In view of the obligation under point (c) of the first subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, the Commission shall, by means of implementing acts, adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the application of Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, laying down detailed rules for the application of Articles 108 and 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 4 of my Order of 25 November 2020 the Ministry of Culture has prepared guidelines for the activities of state cultural institutes and cultural organizations with activities in These include measures for the protection of employees, such as the conduct of disinfection, the absence of work premises of persons with acute respiratory diseases, compliance with physical distance, the provision of personal protective equipment to personnel depending on the specifics of work and the risk assessment at work; the preparation of a timetable for carrying out rehearsals consistent with anti-epidemic measures; the introduction of distance work for administrative units. The guidelines state that given the specific conditions in the different sites, specific rules should be developed for each individual site in line with their specific characteristics. In order to address the current CoVID-19 pandemic, the use of these anti-epidemic measures is extremely important. In addition to the above basic measures, which can protect the life and health of society, including artists in the field of performing arts, it is also important to apply specific vaccine prophylaxis. With regard to the application of vaccines against COVID-19, the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria is actively committed to the process of providing vaccines against COVID-19 with the objective of offering them to the whole population after being approved by an agreement authorising the European Commission to propose to the participating Member States on their behalf prior arrangements for the purchase of vaccines with their producers in order to provide Member States with vaccines in the fight against the pandemic of COVID-19. The vaccines against COVID-19 will be free of charge for every Bulgarian citizen and will be applied at will. The country has developed a National vaccination plan against COVID-19 in the Republic of Bulgaria, which contains key components for vaccination, including specific population groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u220	Thank you, dear Minister. Here you are, Mrs. Yotova, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u221	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, thank you for your reply. I want to pay a little more attention to the specifics of our work because I'm an actress playing right now. I had a show last Friday. I was very happy that I had a performance in Theatre 199 with all the measures being met. There's only two of us on stage. Basically, I didn't feel any threat. But a world famous opera singer died in the opera. At the Russian Opera, one of the choirs died. There are specific things in different performing arts. For example: when we have a choir of 30 people and they sing, it's about very active breathing. In general, opera is a much more mass art. As you say, food stores will now be checked and so on, whether all the measures are being followed, I do not want to introduce any police on operas, on theatres, but I still think that control should in some way be a little more strengthened. By no means do I mean to stop operas or theaters because half of the guild is afraid and wants to stop. But the other half says: "No, we want to be with our audience. " - I also want to be with the audience. I want to be on a stage where I feel the best, and Friday was one of the most beautiful days of my life. A very talented director and actor, who works with children, has a children's school and so on. Maybe he should have a little more control. Maybe when there's a sick man, he should stop for a while. For example, for these 10 days, the quarantine we all observe when we are surrounded by an infected person. Perhaps when there is someone who is infected, the theatre or opera in question should stop for 10 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u222	Thank you, Mrs. Yotova. You're on stage in the theater and here in Parliament. Would you like a douche? Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u223	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Yotova, undoubtedly the loss of every person is a loss for Bulgaria. In view of what has been said so far, I would remind you that there is an order of the Minister of Culture with written instructions. I make a commitment today to have a conversation with Mr. Boil Banov, respectively, to take all necessary actions to ensure the health and life of all artists in Bulgaria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u224	Thank you, dear Minister. We are moving on to the next issue by the National Representative Valentina Naydenova regarding the participation of the employment services in a declared state of emergency or the declared epidemiological situation, I suppose, an emergency epidemiological situation. You have the floor to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u225	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! According to § 1, t. 11 (b) The additional provisions of the Law on Health and Human Health are the activities of the employment services. The latter is determined by both the Law on Health and Safety of Work, and the ordinance on it. In accordance with art. 25c, para. 1 of the Law the employment services are registered with the Ministry of Health, and the control of their activities is implemented by the authorities of state health control. At the same time, according to art. 25, para. 2 of the same law the services of occupational medicine are units with mainly preventive functions, such as in art. 25a, para. 1 are explicitly described the main activities such as helping employers to establish a safety and health organisation at work, assessing the occupational risks and analysis of the health status of workers, proposing measures to eliminate and reduce the identified risk, monitoring the health status of workers and others. During the CoVID-19 pandemic in many enterprises, workers are allowed to work without preventive control with the symptoms of COVID-19. At the same time, there are few cases where employers require patients to submit research for the presence or not of COVID-19. Dear Minister, I would like to be answered by the question: why are the labour medicine services not included in the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by the National Assembly Decision of 13 March 2020, and to overcome the consequences in support of the enterprises for helping employers in setting up an organisation for safety and health at work under the conditions of a pandemic of COVID-19?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u226	Thank you, dear Mrs. Naydenova. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u227	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Naydenova! Under the Law on Health and Safety at Work, the obligation to ensure health and safety at work belongs to the employer. By assessing the risks to the safety and health of workers, in accordance with the risk assessment, it plans and implements preventive measures, it shall establish the necessary organisation to carry out the monitoring and control of the implementation of the planned measures. Some of these obligations also include providing services to workers from registered employment services. Employment services are units with only preventative functions. Under the regulatory framework, these services consult and assist employers, committees and working groups in planning and organising activities to ensure and maintain health and safety at work, propose measures to prevent, eliminate or reduce the identified risk, assess the effectiveness of the measures taken by the employer, develop, organise and conduct training of management personnel, employees and their representatives, provide individual advice to workers in relation to health and safety at work. In relation to the relevant regulatory framework and in order to support employers' efforts to ensure health and safety at work in the context of the pandemic announced by the World Health Organisation, the Ministry of Health, as early as March 2020, sent to the national employers' organisations its recommendations in line with the World Health Organisation guidelines for measures to be applied by employers to limit the spread of COVID-19, recommendations for employers in order to prepare the workplace in the context of the epidemic spread of COVID-19, including recommendations to business operators and employers in the security business and algorithm of the disinfecting events in public-use establishments in the conditions of the epidemic distribution of COVID-19 and publication of the Ministry's website, the same periodical updates have been updated. The same are fully in line with the regulations of the Law on Safety of Labour, Rights and Obligations of Employers and the functions and tasks of the employment services in providing these conditions. In addition to the orders of the Minister of Health, which are updated periodically depending on the epidemic situation in the country, common anti-epidemic measures for the working premises, organization of the working process, personal protective equipment and others have been introduced. The anti-epidemic measures under these orders shall be mandatory for the application by all employers of the appointment, both natural and legal persons, including those who own or manage public-use establishments, commercial or other sites that provide services to citizens, as well as to the organizers of mass events, regardless of their nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u228	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's a line for you, Mrs. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u229	Dear Minister, I think we have taken these services too far away because the relations between employers and employment services are mostly of a private nature, mainly of a private nature, but the reason I ask this question is because of a few things. Firstly, the beginning of the COVID-19 epidemic was too unexpected for us, and the Ministry's efforts were to ensure timely treatment of the sick in our hospitals, search, isolation of contacts, provision, carrying personal protective equipment and other measures. However, there was no mention of what employment services, committees and working groups should do in an epidemiological situation. If we didn't have time and had to react quickly, we now have enough time, knowledge and experience to assess our behavior, including gaps and errors, and to look for that reserve that can be included in such events. True, the resources of health care professionals were also mobilised, but if the necessary anti-epidemic measures were taken in the enterprises and establishments with the help of the occupational medicine services, where medical professionals work in scheduled algorithms for behavior in such an environment, we would have kept most of the working people healthy and I think the very blow to our economy would have been milder. This is a reminder to you, Mr. Minister. If you find it useful for some future behaviors in such an environment, I would be glad to be understood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u230	Thank you, dear Mrs. Naydenova. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Secretary? No. Thank you. The next question is also from Mrs. Naydenova on the staffing of the Emergency Medical Centre in the town of Lovech and its affiliates in the district of Lovech. Here you are, Mrs. Naydenova, to develop your next question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u231	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, outpatient medical care in the specialty of emergency medicine is carried out by emergency care centres and their affiliates. According to the structure of the Center for Emergency Medical Care, Lovech has branches in the cities of Lovech, Letnitsa, Loukovit, Teteven, Ugurchin, Yablanitsa and Troyan. The latter has one nurse on a 7-hour working day in a 5-day work week and a hygienic civil contract, which makes it difficult for the affiliate's 24-hour regime. In order to ensure the operation of a single centre and an emergency medical care subsidiary, it is generally necessary to provide sufficient personnel through their structure to carry out their activities. Therefore, my question to you is: what is the level of staffing of the Center for Emergency Medical Care, Lovech, and its affiliates, are the requirements of the established by you Rules on the device, activity and structure of the Center for Emergency Medical Services met, as required by the Law on Medical Institutions?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u232	Thank you, dear Mrs. Naydenova. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u233	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Naydenova! The Rules of Procedure of the Emergency Medical Centre (CSM) specify the types of teams operating there, namely stationary teams and mobile emergency teams. Types of stationary teams and mobile emergency teams, their main professional activities and composition shall be determined according to the medical standard of emergency medicine. In an emergency medical care unit type stationary activities are carried out on medical triage, examination, diagnosis, treatment, monitoring and outpatient activities in emergency patients under short term stay up to 24 hours. Its activity is provided by a stationary emergency team with a minimum number and composition of professional competence of the members of the team With regard to your question, Dr. Naydenova, about the completion of staff of CSM Lovech, I inform you that in the state doctors are 67, professionals in health care Currently, 58 state doctors, including 44,5 medical doctors, 13,5 medical specialists and paramedics, 71 medical professionals, 2 free state posts, and 77 state drivers, are employed at CSM Lovech. As of 30 November 2020, the available doctor's posts are as follows: Emergency Medical Philaly (FSMP) Lovech, four and a half doctor's posts, in the SPSP Troyan, three and a half doctor's posts and a half doctor's post for a medical professional, in the SPSP. Teteven, half a nurse's post, half a medical professional, in the FSMP Lukovit, half a medical examiner, half a doctor's assistant, one medical professional. In order to complete the teams and in view of the epidemiological situation, the medical staff shall work overtime under the State's Free Number Labour Code. In order to meet the requirements of medical standard in emergency medicine and the need to comply with art. 5 of the regulations on the structure and operation of the CSM in the first-type SPSP Troyan "Teteven " Lukovit, was appointed by one PMS nurse 66, a total of three, and additional civil contracts were concluded with persons such as hygienics for these SPSMs also in one number. In an epidemic situation, CSM Lovech is making every effort to comply with the requirements of medical standard in emergency medicine and the regulations on the device and the activities of the CSM, and to carry out its main activity, to provide urgent medical assistance to sick and injured persons at the home of the accident and during transport to their possible hospitalization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u234	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's a line for you, Mrs. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u235	Thank you, Mr. Minister, but as you yourself are convinced that even the orderlys are not enough, and they are necessary and are part of even one team, when they run out of seven hours of work, they leave and, naturally, then sisters, doctors, paramedics, drivers, assume their function, which, of course, in a modern world is not acceptable. But with this question, I would like to draw your attention to the status of the team of the Center for Emergency Medical Care, Lovech, and its affiliates, in particular the subsidiary in Troyan. I think that such a review should also be carried out in all emergency medical centers, the assembly should be provided and even carefully followed, because our National Emergency Medical System must be prepared and have everything necessary to carry out its duties, especially in an epidemic environment. I think people working in the National Emergency System deserve not only better conditions, but they shouldn't overheat in an emergency situation. If it is judged that people are not enough, I think we should be more flexible and make a periodic assessment depending on the workload, whether there is a need for more people or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u236	Thank you, dear Mrs. Naydenova. Would you like a douche? No. And to the last question to you, Mr. Minister, from the National Representative Georgi Mihailov on the immunization campaign related to COVID-19. You have the floor, Professor Mikhailov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u237	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Professor Angelov, dear colleagues! In the Republic of Bulgaria, the preparation for vaccination campaign on the problem of the pandemic spread of COVID-19 has started since the beginning of the month. It was a designated headquarters responsible for the vaccinations. This is an extremely important element of the state's health policy in order to control this infection, even more so far, there are no targeted medicines in the world that can certainly be said to be used for the specific treatment of this infection, while vaccine prophylaxis is specific. My question to you is the headquarters is already targeting, you have already announced the groups that have been defined how is the preparation of the first group going, what is the volume of those who want the first group to be vaccinated as a percentage and as an absolute number? And a particularly important issue, which we insist on, has been proposed in the parliamentary hall to create, structured and active information explanatory campaign to show the nation what the advantages of this immunisation are. I would love to hear your answer to all these components of my question. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u238	Thank you, Mr. Mihailov. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u239	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Mihailov, communication and public information is an important part of the National vaccination plan against COVID-19 in the Republic of Bulgaria, adopted by Council of Ministers Decision No 896 of 8 December this year. Immediately after the adoption of the Plan, not only began the real preparation of data collection for subjects under the first phase of the Plan, but at the same time work on the other parts of the programme is being carried out on delivery, distribution, storage and logistics of vaccines, monitoring of the immune coverage and others. The identification of those who wish to immunise themselves from the first phase of the Plan, namely medical staff of hospitals for hospital and outpatient care, health care professionals, dentists, pharmacists and assistant pharmacists and other support personnel, is ongoing and, according to RZI data, as of 10 December 2020, makes up 33.09% of all professional directions included in this target group. Work is also being done on building a communication strategy based on transparency, reliability, timelyness and accessibility of information on vaccines and their forthcoming implementation. Key messages to different groups of society are being prepared to clarify the benefits of vaccination at individual, group, national and global level, providing for different platforms for the dissemination of information according to the specifics of the different professional activities. Dear Professor Mihailov, the Ministry of Health will not become a trade distributor of vaccines, nor will it campaign to convince Bulgarian citizens about a specific product. On the contrary, we will explain to the citizens that vaccination is the way to salvation and the way to hugs, if you will, to normal human relations. Vaccines will give us this salvation from COVID, but Bulgarian citizens want to hear the answer to every question that bothers them, and the Ministry of Health is committed to creating such an information environment that every doctor gets the information before everyone else and provides it in an accessible and understandable language to the people he cares for. I will insist that producer companies provide answers to all the questions that people are interested in without any silence or information that is not shared. This is extremely important because at the moment some answers are being given before they are clearly announced by the companies that are producers. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, let me conclude by telling you that the Ministry of Health is aware of the importance of the upcoming vaccination for global dealing with the pandemic with COVID-19 and will put every effort into its successful national implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u240	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u241	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Professor Angelov, honourable colleagues! The issue did not at all contain the opinion or wish that the Ministry of Health would become a sponsor or advertiser of one pharmaceutical company or another. The aim of this issue and of the problems it brings to the nation in parliamentary control are several things. First of all, the campaign started in very difficult conditions. Experts in infectious diseases, in epidemiology, in immunology have very well defined the need for when and when an immunization campaign is most effective. The time it is starting to take place is certainly not the most appropriate time, and that is why we believe it was necessary and now it is necessary? You said: to prepare key messages. These messages around the world have gone to people in some very difficult conditions, as we are aware that even the characteristics of the products that are being offered are not yet approved and are not clearly defined in front of the relevant authorisation bodies. But these messages must go as soon as possible, they must go precisely from the Ministry of Health. Furthermore, when we talk about a very difficult vaccination campaign, I allow myself to recall again the BSP's proposal, which was made directly in the parliamentary hall, in your help, I believe that the testing of the population should be activated as far as possible. The testing process, either by the primary PCR method or by antigen tests, gives an in-depth feature, especially to this first most important group, aimed at the Ministry of Health, in order to be able to resolve the practical question of where, when and under what conditions this vaccination programme should be implemented. If these two components do not immediately enter the state system and do not start to operate, then we risk.. You know very well what are the messages of the specialists in the field of infectious diseases and epidemiology, not to reach the effect we want with this immunization plan and in fact not to realize the ideas that will benefit the Bulgarian nation. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u242	Thank you, Professor Mihailov. Would you like the floor? Here you are, Mr. Minister, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u243	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Professor Mihailov! The information campaign in Bulgaria has not yet started. It has not started in many countries as, as you yourself said, the short characteristics of the product are not yet clear. What I wanted to say is that the Bulgarian government and the Ministry of Health will definitely not recommend a specific vaccine to the Bulgarian citizens. On the contrary, we will speak to Bulgarian citizens with the whole language of science that vaccination is the salvation that will bring to Bulgarian citizens and the world from CIVID-19. That's working. It is very active with expert advice on both infectious diseases and epidemiology, working with all specialists who are at the National vaccination headquarters, and this will happen. With regard to population testing, I have made a commitment by 21 December, i.e. by Monday, to have a new definition of cases in which, according to recent data, experts have united around the fact that they will compare partially or fully, I expect today to be presented with the final report, which is consensus by all, PCR tests, then alignment with antigen tests. The antigen tests and PCRs will then be used simultaneously and separately to perform testing of large population groups with a view to actively searching for the positive with COVID-19 persons, their isolation and quarantine of all first-order contacts. So we are working actively in this direction and the commitment made by the National vaccination headquarters will be implemented within the time limit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u244	Thank you, dear Minister. That was the last question for you. Thank you for participating in the parliamentary control. Let's wish you a happy Christmas and New Year's Eve! Let's move on to the last minister for today. There are two questions for him. The first is from the MP Polina Shishkova on the visual identity of the Bulgarian cultural institutes abroad. Here you are, Mrs. Shishkova, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u245	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, the creation of a media information environment in the host country is one of the objectives of the Bulgarian cultural institutes abroad, laid down in the concept of their functioning. In this regard, in addition to social networking, each of the 11 Bulgarian cultural institutions abroad maintains its website, which provides information on the activities and related initiatives and news. A good visual identity is one of the main effective communication elements, especially when information is obtained mainly through the Internet. Dear Minister, in relation to the above, please answer the following question: does the Ministry of Culture consider that a uniform visual identity is needed for the 11 Bulgarian cultural institutes abroad in order to enhance their recognition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u246	Thank you, dear Mrs. Shishkova. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u247	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Mrs. Shishkova! Let me first offer my condolences to the relatives of Valentin Kasabov. God rest his soul! At the end of 2019 the Ministry of Culture held a meeting with the directors of the Bulgarian cultural institutes abroad, which discussed the idea of creating a single visual identity. The 11 Institutes represent the Bulgarian state abroad, with their activities deployed in a network and should be distinguished by a recognizable visual identity unified for all of them. The understanding that the development of a single visual identity, a logo and a slogan, allows the formation of an individual image and the construction of a unique image for Bulgarian cultural institutes abroad is shared by all participants in the meeting. The unique visual identity of the institutes would help in the message to promote a positive image of our country through the dissemination and promotion of Bulgarian culture abroad to be transmitted clearly and categorically, recognizably and easily understandable to the audience. The single visual identity of the Bulgarian cultural institutes abroad would also contribute to their better positioning, distinction and recognition among other cultural institutes in the European Union or third countries, which in turn could facilitate the processes in unlocking them as partners in different projects. A number of measures and restrictions have been introduced in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic, which imposed changes in the working rhythm, delayed the implementation of part of planned activities and put forward other ones as a priority. The idea of creating a uniform visual identity for the institutes is up-to-date and the Ministry of Culture discusses opportunities for its implementation. The budget of the Ministry for 2021 provides funds for the development of a single visual identity of the Bulgarian cultural institutes abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u248	Thank you, dear Mr. Banov. Would you like the word for a line, Mrs. Shishkova? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u249	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, thank you. I am pleased that the Ministry of Culture has taken action to improve the way Bulgarian cultural institutes are present in the Internet. This is a wonderful initiative, which we hope will be implemented as soon as possible. In this regard, I would like to ask you the question: what deadlines do you think this could take place? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u250	Thank you, dear Mrs. Shishkova. Would you like a douche?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u251	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Shishkova, as I have already said, the budget for such an initiative is provided for 2021. Of course, we have a lot of care and responsibilities in the Ministry within the pandemic, but I believe that this is an important task and we will make efforts within the first few months of the year to start and complete these processes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u252	Thank you, dear Minister. And the last question for today is the MPs Polina Shishkova and Anastas Popdimitrov on strategic goals for the development of cultural institutes abroad and analysis of their activities. Here you are, Mrs. Shishkova, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u253	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, the main goals and commitments of the Bulgarian cultural institutes abroad are related to expanding the presence and influence of the Bulgarian culture and validating a positive image of the Republic of Bulgaria in the host country. Cultural institutes abroad also contribute to building lasting relationships, including diplomatic relations, which in turn could contribute both to improving dialogue and to promoting Bulgarian cultural heritage and diversity in European and international terms. Dear Minister, in relation to the above, I ask for an answer to the following questions: is there an up-to-date and dynamic reality-based concept of the activities of the Bulgarian cultural institutes abroad and what control does the Ministry of Culture carry out for its compliance? Is there a practice for periodic analysis by the Ministry for the activities and results achieved by cultural institutes abroad? For what reason after the announced competition for the position of Director of the Cultural Institute in Moscow and the procedure for admission and selection of documents for more than a year the competition has not been held? Have strategic documents been developed to set short-term and long-term goals for promoting Bulgarian culture and identity, which aim to take into account the country's specific interests in different countries? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u254	Thank you, dear Mrs. Shishkova. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u255	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of Parliament, Dear Mrs. Shishkova, Dear Mr. Popdimitrov! The Bulgarian Cultural Institutes abroad are state cultural institutes, which are managed methodically and financially by the Ministry of Culture, and their objectives and tasks are described in the Concept for the Bulgarian Cultural Institutes abroad. The main objectives in developing programmes for their activities are: expanding the presence and influence of Bulgarian culture; creating a positive environment for building lasting links in the host country and supporting the development of creative industries. The specific tasks in the activities of the institutes are related to the preservation and preservation of the Bulgarian national cultural identity; its integration into the world cultural diversity; deepening of the links and contacts of the Bulgarian culture in Europe and around the world; building a new value system and thinking of the contemporary Bulgarian artist in the conditions of a market economy. According to Ordinance No H-6 of 29 June 2007 on the organization of the creative activities of the Bulgarian cultural institutes abroad, the directors of the institutes draw up and coordinate with the Ministry of Culture projects of six-month cultural programmes of the institutes until 1 December for the first 6 months of the following year and 1 June for the second 6 months of the calendar year. The directors shall notify the Ministry of Culture of any changes to the agreed programme and shall draw up six-month reports on the cultural activity of the relevant institute containing data on the sources of funding of the events and the effect they have achieved, the level of attendance of events, the level of media interest, the interest of the cultural community in the host country, the opening of new opportunities for partnerships and the implementation of joint projects. The reports shall be sent to the Ministry of Culture by 15 July for the first 6 months and by 15 January for the second 6 months of the previous year. A working group has been formed in the Ministry of Culture with the task of developing a new regulation for evaluation and monitoring of the state cultural institutes and Bulgarian cultural institutes abroad to update the legal basis in accordance with the current requirements for the functioning of the cultural institutes and to contribute to their more efficient management and adequate implementation of their functions and mission. In the context of the CIVID-19 epidemic, Bulgarian cultural institutes abroad carry out their activities and implement their programmes according to the restrictions imposed in the host country, with a large part of, of course, the planned events being conducted online. The cultural activities programmes of the institutes for the first half of 2021 have been drawn up, taking into account the possibility of extending the restrictive measures period in the countries concerned with regard to cultural institutions. The programmes include not few events that have been postponed since the second half of 2020. The cultural activity reports for the second half of the year are to be received in the Ministry of Culture. After carrying out an analysis of the implemented activities, the need to update the concept will also be assessed. As regards the competitions for directors of institutes, they shall be held according to art. 8, para. 1 and para. 4 of Ordinance No H-4 of 14 June 2007 on competitions for directors of state cultural institutes. Following the announcement of the list of candidates admitted to competition for director of the Bulgarian Cultural Institute in Moscow, a decision of the National Assembly in Bulgaria was announced a state of emergency in relation to the epidemic. By orders of the Minister of Health are introduced restrictions and bans on visits, collection of open and closed places. In this regard, an order for suspension of competitions has been issued in the Ministry of Culture. During the period following the expiry of the order, temporary restrictions and requirements for 14-day quarantine and mandatory PCR testing for persons entering from third countries prevented the participation of some of the candidates in the contest. Given the objective reasons, as well as the inability to conduct the competitions online due to lack of legal basis, it is discussed the possibility that the competition for Director of BKI Moscow will be held at the first possible moment at the beginning of next year. After holding competitions for directors of Bulgarian cultural institutes abroad, the candidates present a concept for the development of the Institute, which contains a strategy for the overall policy of management aimed at increasing the recognition of Bulgarian culture and its presentation in an understandable way corresponding to the culture in the host country. Short-term and long-term goals for the promotion of Bulgarian culture and identity are set out in the National Development Program "Bulgaria 2030." The priority is to promote cultural content of the arts as part of the national policies in these areas through support of Bulgarian cultural institutes abroad in support of creativity, exchange of knowledge, ideas and good practices at national and international level, attract the interest of international scientific information institutions, participation in international projects and activities, exchange of information on cultural policies through digital means, including visual platforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u256	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's a line, dear Mr. Popdimitrov. I would like to remind the media that in an empty room the acoustics are quite strong and their conversations are heard here in the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u257	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer, but it literally contained the Rules of Procedure and the organization of the work of our cultural institutes abroad. Our question was more specific in the sense. As for the competitions, I have information that competitions were held until very recently at the Ministry of Culture. Summer had enough loosening of travel between countries. I think that couldn't be the main reason why the competition couldn't be held. We have information that the competition for the Bulgarian Centre in Skopje is also delayed for more than a year. I think he's the same late as the one in Moscow. In the situation of a failed multiculturalism following neoliberal policy in Europe and the strong policy of Western and old democracies in Europe for the protection of their own culture, their own identity, our specific question was: wasn't the time in which, to say, the Cultural Centre in Skopje and Belgrade could have done a specific job in relation to what is currently one of the most serious challenges facing our foreign policy........... the Treaty of Bulgaria with the Republic of Northern Macedonia? Something to which there is a great deal of respect and the work of the Bulgarian Centre in Belgrade. In general, the specific activity of these cultural institutes in defence of the Bulgarian national interest is at the heart of our question and we relied on a slightly more concrete one in this regard. If I may have a little more specific, otherwise I thank you for the comprehensive response to the activities of our cultural institutes. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for your patience.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u258	Thank you, dear Mr. Popdimitrov. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u259	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear MPs, Mrs. Shishkova, Mr. Popdimitrov! In the context of COVID-19, competitions are difficult. As I told you, especially for the one in Moscow, there are people who have to travel from there and it was difficult to hold. At the first possible moment, we will hold competitions. However, bear in mind that the Centre is currently run by a competent person who was also his longtime director, so we cannot say that there is some emptiness or lack of personnel potential at our Moscow Center. And otherwise more comprehensive, I don't know what you want. I can also give you a specific event by event what is being done in Skopje. In Belgrade, of course, you do not know, the Cultural Institute is not at the Ministry of Culture. I can give you that reference, if I have to, in writing. It's a lot of work. In these conditions, of course, this year most things, unfortunately, must be postponed or passed online. The situation everywhere is as it is in our country. Bulgaria's cultural identity is seriously defended in our cultural institutes, including those in Skopje and Moscow. Thank you. I don't know if there's anyone else after me.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u260	I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u261	Have a good holiday and be healthy!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-18.u262	Thank you, dear Minister. Good holidays to you too! We're finishing the parliamentary year with a culture, which is probably a good sign for the next one. I wish bright Christmas and New Year holidays to all Bulgarians! Let us also show our empathy with the people and families who suffered during this difficult year. May the next one be healthier, more successful! And now it is my honor to close the last meeting of 2020. The next regular meeting is held on 13 January 2021, 9:00 a.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
