ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u1	Good afternoon, fellow Members. Here's Mr. Polychronov now with us, we won't see him on the screen. Please, registration mode. I'm starting to read the names of my colleagues who are participating online in our meeting. Alexander Nenkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u2	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u3	Anna Alexandrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u4	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u5	Georgi Kolev? I don't see him. Yordan Apostolov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u6	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u7	Konstantin Popov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u8	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u9	Krastina Taskova?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u10	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u11	Mladen Shishkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u12	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u13	Plamen Nunev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u14	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u15	Rosen Zhivkov Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u16	Here. Hello. Eight colleagues have been registered online. [[Heckling]] I've read them, colleagues, all eight people. 115 registered on the computerised system plus 8 MPs who have registered online We're just waiting a little while longer in the hall, so I guess there's still some registration. Mr. Alexandrov will come in too. Yes, we're waiting, Mr. Alexandrov. Are we ready in the gym? Thanks, guys. Abort registration. 119 registered in the hall plus 8 MPs registered online. We have 127 registered. The quarm, which is today, is 66. Please enter the shorthand protocol, which will be an integral part of this meeting. Colleagues, on the grounds of art. 53... [[Noise and lines.]] There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] Wait a minute, guys, 65 is the quorum. Please note in the record. On the basis of art. 53, para. 5, t. 2 I propose, in addition to today's National Assembly Work Programme, to enter as point two, the Agricultural Support Act submitted by the Council of Ministers. Mr. Ivanov, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u17	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, I propose a procedure for verifying the quorum before the forthcoming vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u18	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Please give me the list. Name check: Adlen Shukri Shevked is absent. Albena Vladimirova Naydenova- absent Alexander Dimitrov Pawnov- absent Alexander Ivanov Matsurev- here Alexander Koychev Ivanov- here Aleksandar Mairov Siddi-here Alexander Nikolaev Sabanov- here Alexander Petrov Alexandrov- here Alexander Rumenov Nenkov(through the Internet) video conference platform)- here Alexander Tihomirov Simov- absent Altimir Emilov Adamov- here Anastas Marinov Popdimitrov- absent Angel Iliev Isaev- absent Andrian Ivanov Raykov-- here. Anna Vasileva Alexandrova( via the Internet video conference platform)- here Anna Nikolaeva Slavova- absent Anton Konstantinov Kutev- here Asya Atanasova Peeva- here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov- here Atanas Petrov Kostadinov- absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov is absent. Bogdan Emilov Botsev- absent Boris Vangelov Borisov- here Boris Petkov Kirchev- here Boris Yankov Yachev- here Borislav Ivanov Borisov- here Boryana Lyubenova Georgieva- here Bürhan Ilyazov Abase - absent Valentin Alexiev Nikolov- here Valentin Georgiev Lambev- absent Valentin Ivanov Radev- here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov- here Valentin Mirchov Milushev- here Valentina Alexandrova Naydenova- here. Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov- here Valeri Simeonov Simeonov- here Vasil Milanov Antonov- here Vasil Tsvetkov- here Eyebrows Letif Rashidov here Velislava Ivanova Krasteva- absent Venka Kostadinova Stoyanova- here Vesela Nikolaeva Lecheva- here Veselin Naydenov Mareshki - absent Veska Marinova Nencheva- absent Violeta Ruseva Jeleva - absent Vladimir Slavchev Valev- here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev- here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov- here Galya Eneva Zaharieva- here Galya Stoyanova Zhelyazkova - here Georgi Georgiev Mihailov- absent Georgi Georgiev Stoilov- absent Georgi Dimitrov Andreev- absent Georgi Evdokiev Markov- absent Georgi Zaprev Dinev- here Georgi Yordanov Yordanov- absent Georgi Kolev Kolev (through the Internet) video conference platform)- here Georgi Nikolov Vergiev- here Georgi Stratilov Svilenski- absent Georgi Tenev Stankov- here Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski- absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov- here Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova- absent Daniel Petkov Yordanov- here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova- here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva- here Daniela Dimitrova Maleshkova- here Daniela Dobreva Dimitrova- here Danka Evstatieva Zidarova-Lurtova- here Dean Stoyanov Stanchev- here Delyan Slavchev Peevski- absent Desislaw Petrov Taskov- here Desislaw Slavov Chukolov- absent Desislava Angelova Todorova- here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova- here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva- here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov is absent. Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov is absent Dilyan Stanimirov Dimitrov- here Dimitar Boychev Petrov- here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev- here Dimitar Velichkov Georgiev - absent Dimitar Ivanov Avramov- absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev- here Dimitar Ivanov Danchev- absent Dimitar Krumov Alexandrov- here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov- here Dimitar Stoyanov Stoyanov- absent Dobrin Nenov Danev- here Donka Dimova Simeonova- absent Dora Ilieva Yankova- absent Dora Stoyanova Hristova- here Dragomir Velkov Stoynev- absent Evgeni Genchev Budinov- here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva- here Evgenia Danielova Angelova- here Evdokia Slavchova Asenova- absent Elena Vladimirova Angelina - absent Elena Stefanova Pesheva - absent Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov- absent Emil Marinov Hristov- here Emil Seraphimov Tonchev- here Emilia Veselinova Staneva-Milkova- here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin is absent. Errol Osman Mehmet-- absent. Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev- absent Brought to you by Vassilev Iankov- here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov- here Ivan Dimov Ivanov- absent Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev- absent Ivan Nikolov Mihovski- here Ivan Stefanov Valkov- here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov- absent Ivelina Veselinova Vasileva- here Ivo Angelov Hristov- absent Iglika Ivanova-Subeva- here Ilian Angelov Timchev- absent Imren Ismetova Mehmedova- absent Irena Metodieva Dimova- here Irena Todorova Anastasova- absent Honest Vasilev Veselinov- here Ihsan Halil Hakke is absent Yordan Apostolov (through the Internet) video conference platform)- here Yordan Iliev Yordanov- here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev- absent Kalin Dimitrov Vassilev- here Kalin Lubenov Velev- here Kalin Nikolov Popovski- here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin is absent. Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva- here Kolyo Yordanov Milev- here Konstantin Veselinov Popov (through the Internet) video conference platform)- here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev- here Krasimir Georgiev Tzipov- here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov- here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev- here Krasimir Mitkov Subev- here Krasimir Hristov Jankov- here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Cristina Maximova Sidorova- absent Krum Kostadinov Zarkov- absent Krastina Nikolova Taskova(through the Internet) video conference platform)- here Lalo Georgiev Kirilov- here Lilyana Drumeva Radeva- here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov- here Lyubomir Boykov Bonev- absent Manoil Minchev Manev- here Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Margarita Nikolaeva Nikolova- here Maria Yordanova Ilieva- here Maria Yordanova Tsvetkova- here Maria Shtereva Belova- here Martin Stefanov Obreshkov- here Menda Kirilova Stoyanova- here Milen Vassilev Mihov- here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova- here Milko Nedyalkov Nedyalkov- here Mitko Kostadinov Polychronov- here Mikhail Ivaylov Hristov- absent Mladen Nikolov Shishkov (through the Internet) video conference platform)- here Mustafa Sally Karadaye- absent Nadia Spasova Klisurska-Zekova- here Nelly Ruskova Petrova- here Nigyar Sahlim Jaffer is absent Nikola Iliev Dinkov- absent Nikolay Asenov Tishev- absent Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov- here Nikolay Georgiev Ivanov- here Nikolay Dimitrov Penev- absent Nikolay Ivanov Tsonkov- here Nikolay Krastev Boshkov- here Nikolay Tsvetanov Sirakov- here Nikolina Panayotova Angelkova- here Nona Krasteva Yotova- missing Pavel Alexeyev Hristov- here Pavel Dimitrov Shopov- absent Petar Georgiev Kanev- absent Peter Hristov Petrov- here Plamen Dulchev Nunev (through the Internet) video conference platform)- here Plamen Ivanov Manushev- here Plamen Tachev Petrov- here Plamen Trifonov Hristov- here Polina Alexandrova Shishkova- absent Polina Tsvetoslavova Tsankova-Hristova- here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev- here Radoslava Plamen Chekanska- here Radostin Radoslavov Tanev- here Ralitsa Trilkova Dobreva- here Ramadan Bajram Atali is absent Rosen Zhivkov Ivanov (through the Internet) video conference platform)- here Rosen Malinov Malinov-- here. Rumen Vassilev Gechev- absent Rumen Nikolov Georgiev- here Rumen Petrov Genov- here Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev- here Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova- here Svetlana Angelova Naydenova- here Sevim Ismail Ali is absent Sergey Manushov Kichikov- absent Simeon Georgiev Naydenov - absent Slavi Dichev Netzov- here Slavcho Stoev Atanasov- here Smilyana Nikolova Niva-Krsteva- here Spas Georgiev Gurnevski- here Save Yanev Panchev- here Stanislav Ivanov Popov- here Stanislav Ivanov Stoyanov- here Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov- here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov- absent Stanislava Krasimirova Stoyanova- here Stefan Apostolov - here Stefan Ivanov Burgeev - absent Stay Mitev Stoynov- here 139 so far there is a quorum, continue, colleagues. Quorum is 65. I vote on my proposal to add to today's programme the Agricultural Support Act as point two for today. Renumber the remaining points. As soon as the legislative part is completed, we shall continue with parliamentary control. Now let's ask our colleagues who are online. Mr. Nenkov, how do you vote to include the item on the agenda?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u19	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u20	Mrs. Alexandrova is not available. Mr. Kolev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u21	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u22	Mr. Apostolov is absent. Konstantin Popov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u23	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u24	I don't see Mrs. Taskova. Mr. Shishkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u25	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u26	Mr. Nunev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u27	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u28	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u29	Thanks, guys. We've got six votes online to vote for. They voted 132 Members of the Parliament plus 6.. 138 Members of the National Assembly. The vote was taken by 112 MPs plus 6 announced online support: 118, against 6 and abstention 14. The motion is accepted. Mr. Kutev, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u30	Madam President, honourable Members! My procedure is a proposal for the first item of today's agenda to be dismissed with the simple argument that precisely those for which this personal assistance law was adopted, precisely those who challenged it, were involved in its creation and ultimately largely defined the type of the Law, which is precisely the mothers of children with disabilities, and the people with disabilities themselves, the Law was made for them. Right now these people are standing in front of them screaming, "Don't touch the Law!" [[Heckling]] They were probably five people before that. Why don't you go out there and explain to them that there are five people and tell them exactly why? [[Heckling]] What you're doing right now...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u31	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u32	The only good thing that this Parliament did during this time was that in some way it took care of the most severely injured people in Bulgaria. The only thing I can say is that we're done somehow, not that we've solved their problems, but we've taken a step in the right direction. Right now, with this law, we're taking the opposite step, and we're tearing down everything we've built. I have no idea what conscience you're sleeping with, but today you must not look at the Law, because if you look at it, you will take it and it will be even harder for you to fall asleep.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u33	Your offer is to drop the point, Mr. Kutev? Yeah. I put to the vote Mr. Kutev's proposal point one "The Bill for Amendment and Supplement to the Personal Aid Act to be removed from the agenda today. Colleagues! Mr. Nenkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u34	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u35	Mr. Kolev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u36	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u37	Mrs. Alexandrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u38	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u39	Mr. Popov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u40	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u41	I don't see Mrs. Taskova. Mr. Shishkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u42	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u43	Mr. Nunev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u44	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u45	Mr. Rosen Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u46	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u47	Online voted against 7. They voted 137 on the e-system of the Assembly and 7 colleagues online became 144 MPs: for 45, against 84 plus 7 online "91," abstention 8. The offer is not accepted. Colleagues, we're continuing with procedure. First Mrs. Angelova and then Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u48	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the basis of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I am making a procedural proposal that the deadline for proposals between the first and second votes on the draft law on the Bulgarian sign language be increased by two weeks or a total of three weeks.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Colleagues, I'm voting on the procedure that Mrs. Angelova just did. Mr. Nenkov, we are voting on an extension procedure between first and second readings.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u50	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u51	I don't see Mrs. Alexandrova. Mr. Kolev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u52	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u53	Mr. Popov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u54	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u55	Mr. Shishkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u56	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u57	Mr. Nunev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u58	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u59	Mr. Rosen Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u60	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u61	Online voted Members of the National Assembly.............................................................................................. They voted 130 out of the computerised system in the House plus 6 MPs online "voted 136 MPs: for 116 of the House and 6 online "is equal to 122, against 6, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Vigenin, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u62	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! It is true that the Bulgarian society is excited at the moment, above all, about how the health crisis is developing, but there are other very important issues for the future of Bulgaria. One of them is the relations of the Republic of Bulgaria with the Republic of Northern Macedonia and the clarification of the negotiating framework and possible beginning of negotiations of the Republic of Northern Macedonia for membership in the European Union. In the last two weeks, we've received a lot of media information. It is, of course, very distant, and the Bulgarian Parliament is very committed to this issue. Firstly, with the support of the Treaty on Good Neighborhood, Friendship and Cooperation with the Republic of Northern Macedonia, then last year with a position that was related to our terms and conditions - red lines with regard to the negotiating framework. Since then, there have been two weeks since the more active talks on this issue started, two weeks in the Committee on Foreign Policy we cannot obtain any official information from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The issue is serious enough, in so far as by 17 November, at least as is the plan, when a General Affairs Council of the European Union is to be held and the decision on the possible start of the negotiations must be taken. This is Tuesday and Parliament has no more meetings. We think that it is appropriate that the Prime Minister, who we see is already in good health, drives his car, looks around, could and we think that it is right for him to come to parliament and inform us at what stage the talks with the Republic of Northern Macedonia are, what are the next steps by 17 November. If he is unable, perhaps Deputy Prime Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva could come if she is not in quarantine, but the Bulgarian Parliament cannot be kept in the dark on this issue. We are worried that solutions are being prepared that are contrary to the position of the Bulgarian Parliament. If he is unable to come today, of course, next week, but it will be post-factum and I think parliament should respect itself. Please invite the Prime Minister, Mrs. Karayancheva, to inform us today, perhaps before or at the beginning of parliamentary control, at his discretion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u63	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. I'll contact the Prime Minister. We continue with the first item of today's agenda: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR PERSONAL AID. Importer suppose the Council of Ministers, 10 November 2020 The report will introduce us to Mrs. Gancheva. Here you are, Mrs. Gancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u64	Madam President, I am doing a procedure for admission in the hall of Adriana Stoimenova.. Deputy Minister, and Lyubomira Arshinkova..............................Politics for people with disabilities...........................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u65	Please vote on the procedure. To the colleagues who are online Mr. Nenkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u66	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u67	Mr. Kolev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u68	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u69	Mr. Popov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u70	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u71	Mr. Shishkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u72	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u73	Mr. Nunev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u74	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u75	Mr. Rosen Ivanov? He's not on the line. Mr. Yordan Apostolov, I can't see either. Thanks, guys. Six voted online. There are 127 MPs voted from the House and 6 MPs online. They became 133 MPs. Out of the room are 117 plus 6 online and become: for 123, against 4 and abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Here you are, Mrs. Gancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u76	♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Personal Aid Act No 002-01-66, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 10 November 2020. The Commission on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a regular meeting held on 11 November 2020 examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Personal Aid Act. The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Adriana Stoimenova. The normal change of the Personal Aid Act will result in: - the definition of a specific circle entitled to access personal assistance according to the real need to direct assistant care financed with public resources to the most deprived and vulnerable persons, without allowing the scope to be reduced to all disabled people in the country from next year. The scope in force until 31 December 2020 shall be maintained; - preciseing the levels of dependence linked to determining the number of hours for personal assistance based on an individual assessment of the needs for people with disabilities, according to the specific case, according to the dependence on intensive support for the user from another person for the implementation of different activities in everyday life. The limits of the four levels of dependence in force and the maximum number of hours up to 168 shall be maintained; - precision of regulations to strengthen control of the prevention of the risk of abuse and to improve the quality of personal assistance for users by introducing a commitment for the mayors of municipalities in the exercise of control to monitor the quality of personal assistance; - optimization of control activity by regulation to suspend the receipt of the mechanism in the event of detected infringements and irregular actions; - ensuring the financial security of municipalities to achieve the sustainability and better quality of the personal assistance provided by providing means for the administration of the personal assistance mechanism to the municipality concerned according to the monthly number of hours allocated to users in its territory; - increasing requirements for assistants providing personal assistance in terms of health for carrying out personal assistance activities. The personal assistance provider will be able to set requirements for assistants depending on the needs of the user; - introducing a rule for providing the mechanism personal assistance in cases where a user needs treatment abroad and/or carrying out a rehabilitation service. In this way, under clear rules, the person will continue to receive assistant care, ensuring the continuity of the process; - the clarification of existing provisions in order to properly understand law enforcement, which is extremely important in terms of legality. In addition to these objectives, importers aim to increase the effectiveness of the state policy to provide personal assistance to people with disabilities according to the budgetary resources available. Importers expect that the adoption of the Draft Law will achieve prevention of social dependence, non-abuse and risks to the social system financed by the public resource. In this way, an objective mechanism will be established to address identified difficulties in the area of private aid. In addition, it will ensure the implementation of the mechanism of personal assistance in an optimal manner, clear and precise procedures and providing the necessary support to potential users according to their real needs for assistance in the implementation of activities that hinder them, given the existing functional constraints, but also in line with the financial opportunities for providing such public support. A partial impact assessment of the bill has been applied to the bill. Members of the National Assembly Rumen Genov, Hasan Ademov, Violeta Jeleva, Nadia Klisurska, Kalin Popovski, Milko Nedyalkov and Georgi Gokov took part in the discussion. After the end of the discussion and the vote held with results 9 votes, no votes, no votes, and 6 votes, abstention, the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee adopted the following opinion: it proposes to the National Assembly to support the first vote Draft amendment and supplement to the Personal Aid Act, No 002-01-66, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 10 November 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u77	Thank you, dear Mrs. Gancheva. An importer's opinion? I can't see. I'm opening the debate. Colleagues, you have a say in this. Mr. Kutev, come in. Mrs. Lecheva, then Mrs. Sidorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u78	Madam President, honourable Members! I will now begin my speech on this bill with one question to the importers: what are we really trying to do in the social sphere? Are we going to codify these laws specifically the laws on people with disabilities, which we have been talking about for a year and a half now, that they had to codify, that is, to make a common code of laws, which, frankly, I have always suspected had a single objective............................................................................ In principle, it is not bad to do, but there has always been one goal and it is the annulment of the Personal Aid Act, apart from other objectives, and this is not small. In my opinion, when you saw that you couldn't and that you wouldn't have the time to codify the laws and to repeal the Personal Aid Act, collecting them in several other laws, you decided to just cripple it, which is simpler, of course, faster. And yet I start with the question: I thought we were going to do a codification, didn't we make a common law that would bring everyone together into one that might be right? Why are we now making changes to the Personal Aid Act if we are going to do the other? And what did we do for a year and a half if we didn't do the general law, so we got into this one? So, obviously, someone here... At least I don't know where you're going. Either you don't know where you're going, or you're taking steps that are random, but that's the smaller problem. The bigger problem is why do you have to cripple the Personal Aid Act? I hope no one in this room has any doubt that what you're doing is maiming. By the way, maiming the Personal Aid Act, you're actually maiming several tens of thousands of lives so there aren't 100, but there are tens of thousands. Because when you determine that the maximum rate that the state can pay for a person's personal help is 168 hours a month, which means 8 hours a day only in working days, you actually cripple people. By the way, some of them and you kill them because eight hours a day, he can't live eight hours a day. He lives 24 hours. And when you need care 24 hours a day, 30 days a month, respectively, what do you do during the holiday days, do you stop breathing, what do you do? Since after two years, lighten her up, my mother died two weeks ago, but I spent two years by her bed, like, by the way, and many of you have done, I know, I've talked to a lot of people, a lot of people have taken care of people who are not just disadvantaged, who can't move from their beds. Excuse me, I'd like to ask you, during the holidays, who changes diapers? Who's lifting these people to go to the bathroom? Who puts them on the wheelchair? Who feeds them? And on the next Saturday and Sunday, when you sit down from tomorrow to eat breakfast on Saturday, will you think of those who have no one to feed them on Saturday? Madam Deputy Minister, you were the chairman of a national representative organisation of people with disabilities and you came to defend these texts! I apologize, it's not a personal definition of what you're doing. This, in my opinion, is a form of betrayal of the worst kind that you allow yourself to do. Because if you hadn't touched the Law, he has many things that are not perfect, as a matter of fact a small part of the texts........................ about 30% to 40%, in fact.....are fixing some imperfections in the Law that I would agree with, but they are mostly terminological and among them is not the idea to say that it does not apply to people with disabilities but to people with severe disabilities. This is not a terminological amendment. It is said that when they are severely disabled, it is already quite another way of looking at who are exactly those who are beneficiaries, users, as you call them. No, no, no, they're not users. They're not users, they're disabled people! Unfortunately, many of them have severe disabilities, but no one has said that people with mild disabilities do not need personal help, although not in the volumes of 24/7, but they also have. In other words, even terminologically, you restrict them as a volume in the Law. So the only goal that I see and that you have at stake here is how to put the budget within what someone has allowed you. Someone in my opinion is the Prime Minister or the Finance Minister, I don't know who else it should be, but this someone who won't let you give a certain amount of money another 100, 200, 300 million. Someone told me 800 million a year would be worth. Even if we assume it's worth 800 million a year, the budget we're going to be looking at in a little while, some deputy minister was bragging to me two weeks ago that a billion and a half would give for a sanitization. It's about styrofoam on the walls of the buildings a billion and a half! Where's 800 million for the disabled? [[(Replys from BSP for Bulgaria]] You say three billion. I don't know, I'm confused, honestly! How much will they go to the highways, to the state company to spend without tenders? Over a billion this year! What didn't reach you to do so that you could comply with the Personal Aid Act that was adopted? No, look, you've decided there won't be any resistance. I don't know if people can get back together and do their resistance to what you're doing, but I do know that I have the disgust of the way you do it. I have no idea what conscience you already have, and I said it, I have no idea what conscience you're going with on Sunday and you're having breakfast, but I'm telling you that there are tens of thousands of people who won't be able to do it, thanks to your fingers now, to your actions now, to the Ministry and to those who are voting for you. The arguments, probably a lot of other people will say them. The very fact that you are putting off another year and the real cost of the work put in the Law, we had put 1.4 out of the minimum wage. You do it by the end of next year 1.2 and then you say, well, it doesn't work! Well, it doesn't work! When you have to catch someone watching a terribly sick person, it's a terribly difficult and depressing job, and when you tell them you're gonna give him the minimum wage, or more precisely 1.2 of it, well, there's no way he's gonna come to work, and you're not gonna have any assistants. On top of that, when you don't have assistants, you've inserted into the Law a text in which, when there are no assistants, the law doesn't work. So the law only works if there are assistants. If the mayor suddenly finds out there are no assistants, you, if you give them 0.5% of the minimum wage, there won't be, and with 1.2, there won't be. He must have enough money to have assistants. I can continue with a bunch of points that you put, and that you can give up at all, as I mentioned it, help, because the mayor, when he doesn't find the end, just the law doesn't work! Such maiming of the Law is a crime on your part, but the biggest problem for me is not that you are maiming the Law, but that you are maiming disabled people with disabilities. Because what you're doing right now has a direct relationship to their lives, to their daily lives, to their life expectancy. Those like me who fought for our parents' lives in person because some of us didn't give them to hospice, we watched them to the end, and I know that you can extend the life of such a man for a year, with two, with three, only you can if you have the money to do it. If you don't have the money to do it, he dies right now. There is no greater injustice than the fact that your life depends on the money you have or do not have, and there is no more vulgarity than the state refusing to pay that money. This is an absolute shame to all who are voting today for the House! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u79	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. - What's the line? First line, Mrs. Angelova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u80	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kutev, I take this line provoked by your arrogant statement because this statement is absolutely inaccurate and purposefully manipulative. The changes to the Personal Aid Act aim at maintaining the hourly monthly rate for personal assistants. Next, for next year, money for personal help increases double. For this year it is 92 million, next year it is 214 million. lv. The wage ratio of personal assistants is maintained at 1.2, but increases in 2021 the minimum wage and personal assistants will receive higher pay than this year. Next, contracts with 33,000 individuals who are users of personal assistance were concluded this year. How can the law not work? Here are the numbers. Let's rely on the facts, on the numbers, not on the manipulations.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u81	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. Second line? I can't see. Hole, Mr. Kutev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u82	Mrs. Angelova, arrogance is a quality that, by the way, is usually associated with wealth. The rich and arrogant is the formula. I don't believe I belong to this formula. However, I would like to tell you in particular that I am amazed at the readiness with which you lie on the rug even when you should not. I've already had the opportunity to say several times that this high tribune is the cliche that most of us use, this high tribune has a unique opportunity. From it, you can change lives with words. By the way, it can make you immortal, because the words you speak can stay and after 200, 300 or 400 years there may be someone who needs to repeat them. But they can also make you a round idiot if you don't know how to use them or use them the most harmful way. What you're saying right now changes lives from tomorrow. From tomorrow on, there'll be no one to change their diaper. Starting tomorrow, some people on Saturday and Sunday won't be able to have breakfast or dinner because there's no one to put the spoon in their mouth. These are your words, they change it your will, your fingers. Some nameless of those who stand here and don't come out, but scream: Enough nonsense!................................ if people's lives are nonsense, you have no place in this room. Get up and get out! If this is bullshit, just leave the gym, find a place in the desert. You have no place in the civilized world. [[Extreme applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u83	Any other speeches? Mrs. Lecheva made a statement, then Mrs. Sidorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u84	Give the floor to Mr. Peter Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u85	If he wants it, I'll give it to him, Mr Nedyalkov. Everyone has the right to speak out of this tribune and, as you can see, I do not deny anyone that right.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u86	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I see fear in the ruling coalition to defend a law that concerns thousands of fates. Let us be faithful to history.. how was this law conceived? After a long delay in the years drawn up, approved and accepted with severe, I would say, and labor pains. He received a lot of grandmothers from this law. The executive authority, the Ombudsman, all of the national organizations represented for people with disabilities, the mothers of the System is killing us. This law was supported by an agreement on an action plan for adoption of legislation in the area of people with disabilities, supported by signatures from the Ministry of Finance, by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, of all people, I say again, national represented organizations plus the mothers from................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Today, however, with this amendment and supplement bill, you are about to make everyone cry again and blow up the consensus achieved with so much pain. The reason for this lies in the style of work of this ruling majority to postpone the reforms in time until the moment the discontent and tensions erupted and already under pressure of protests to accept everything under an ultimatum. This is achieved as a quality of legislative work today. However, this only works temporarily until everyone realizes that they have been deceived or misled. The worst in this case is people's lost time, trust, and most of all the hope that someone can do something meaningful in this country for society and for people. Losing hope in the state, in the government, in the National Assembly and so on, and then we wonder why skepticism in people is so high and why people are looking for a way out of Bulgaria, or making protests until they recoil, accompanied by ultimatums. And today we see them in front of the National Assembly. This Law on Amendment and Supplement repeats the vicious practice to go the shortest way. Only a few months after his acceptance is done again without public discussion in due order. He left the Council of Ministers on November 10th, was already in the Commission on November 11th and is today in plenary at first reading. Thus, a Law is adopted, which concerns thousands of fates and a number of administrative changes. Today it will be accepted, leaving disappointment in the thousands of citizens who are waiting for it, waiting for the implementation of the already adopted Personal Aid Act. The motives you present today are highly distorted. I will say one thing: if the current Law enters and is realized in its entirety, nearly 670 thousand Bulgarian citizens with permanent disabilities will be included in the mechanism of personal assistance. That would be difficult to do, because there are not so many thousands of assistants in the labour market in the country to care for these people, and it will cost billions. The fact remains that not everyone with permanent disability is incapable of serving themselves. It is said that the sieve is the individual assessment which aims to assess the mental and physical deficits of people with disabilities. I will give an example: people with diabetes are tens of thousands, but most of them go to work and lead their own lives. They are not allowed to enter the mechanism until a possible amputation of a limb is required, only then can they be entitled under the mechanism of personal assistance. I will only say about statistics what we have heard from the social minister: 490 thousand applications have been submitted so far to prepare an individual assessment of the needs. Of these, 40 thousand have claimed the need for personal assistance, with the issued directions being 39, nearly 40 thousand, and the number of users of personal assistance, as we have just heard, is a little over 30 to 33 thousand, as I have heard. The assistants providing these services to date are 32,000 338. The forecasts are that the needy will be about 70 to 80 thousand people, which number is very different from what we read in the motives and in your statements. In practice, with the adoption of this law, there is a serious retreat from the agreements reached with the people. This is another Law in the weekly program, which takes away already earned rights and benefits for people. Ladies and gentlemen of the ruling majority, excuse me, but this week is black for all those people and citizens of Bulgaria who expect us to realize their rights and benefits for better quality life in Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Lecheva. - What's the line? I can't see. Mrs. Sidorova said a speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u88	Let's alternate groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u89	Are there any other speeches before Mrs. Sidorova? There's no request, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u90	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, could you extend the group's time?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u91	Please extend the group's time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u92	On 6 December 2018, the Law on Personal Aid was adopted unanimously by this Chamber of the National Assembly. Then words of gratitude were heard from the stands, how consensual the work was, how constructive, how beautiful the Law was. Do you remember the applause with which the Law was passed?! Today these applauses seem like very badly disguised hypocrisy. Do you remember what Minister Biser Petkov said? From the platform of the National Assembly, he said that with the adoption of the Personal Aid Act Bulgaria ranks to not many countries in Europe, which have a separate Personal Aid Act. It met the main demands of protesting mothers placed for years in their protests. Were you honest then?! I don't think so, because just two years later you literally crippled the Personal Aid Act and left thousands of disabled people at the mercy of fate. Why today, after extremely haste, silently, without public discussion, without that consensus that you were so proud of in 2018, are you offering us these changes in the Personal Aid Act? This amendment and addition to the Law is only a maiming and ruining of the Law. So far, this law has benefited nearly 33 thousand of the majority of adults, the smaller part of the children. The purpose of this law was to provide support as needed. Unfortunately, the changes you are proposing to us today bring back everything that has been achieved in the social sphere. The law gave justice and equality, access to children and adults with disabilities to foreign aid. You were giving! Past tense! Because from tomorrow he won't give anything. It'll only give you grief. What are you offering us today? A new order of providing the support funds not according to individual needs, the deadline for the establishment of a State Agency for People with Disabilities is again postponed. How many agencies did you create, but the Disability Agency didn't create? Because it should do the job, not I will not quote the agencies that you know well, which mainly spend state resources. Children who are entitled to assistants and elderly people are wronged, especially severe cases. All the people who have an assistant under the Personal Aid Act will be left without care during the holidays and holidays. Do you like these changes? Do you think they're social, that they care about people? Aren't you ashamed of what you're offering?! I'm sure you'll be ashamed! I'm sure you'll regret supporting him. What you are proposing today to vote in the National Assembly are restrictive changes, replacing the philosophy and purpose of the Personal Aid Act. They don't take into account real needs. You cripple the Law, which will not compensate the missing policies for people with disabilities, but will certainly destroy many lives. And as the mothers of the System have said, kills us, who protest once again outside, do not touch the Law. Don't ruin any more lives! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Sidorova. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Nedyalkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u94	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! There's a bill in front of us again, and he's in a hurry. I understand the government's desire to pass this law before the State Budget Bill. Because the state budget for next year had to provide for the funds that are under the current Personal Aid Act. Those funds are gone. According to the government, these funds cannot be provided. Therefore, we are now adopting a law by which we are cutting out the Personal Aid Act so that we can adapt it to the budget law for next year. This is the truth, and this must be said one to the public, because for the implementation of this law adopted with applause, it is not thought how it will be implemented next year or it is thought not to be implemented. That's the result! As a MP, I am ashamed of the words written in the motives of this law. Be patient to read you a long sentence and finally tell me what is written under this law. I read: The problem and the escalated social tension for the expected reform, however, reflects directly on the regulation and the subsequent application of insufficiently structured approaches and the making of some irrational decisions, as is the example of the Personal Aid Act in the motives! "No clear perspective and negative social impact, respectively. " Underneath this was signed Prime Minister Boyko Borisov when he submitted on behalf of the government this law in the Chamber. That's his signature! As it stood when consent was reached for the adoption of the Personal Aid Act, adopted not only by voting but also by applause. Now it's called that then as if it's gone, it doesn't exist! This is a way of policy and this cannot be! The cover-up behind the phrases continues: The regulation of the right of access to personal assistance only of a specific range of potential beneficiaries (by maintaining the current scope), in line with the inherent purpose of the social policy to support those most in need, is necessary according to clear criteria for determining the need for intensive care at a precise basis for providing the mechanism. The simple truth is hidden behind complex sentences, which say.. which so far is the use of this kind of mechanism, it remains in the future. The others are hopeful, standing by and waiting! This must be stated clearly and specifically! What are we hiding behind different numbers that are quoted here? And the other thing that is positive in these changes is that I am not a black-eyed person, but a person who understands things is that municipalities are given funds to administer this mechanism. Until now, municipalities have been deprived of these funds. It's the only thing the municipalities will get. And if there's anything to be supported by the amendments to this law, that's all. But cutting the scope, changing the philosophy of the Law must be denied, especially in the first part, where people with disabilities from now on will not be called disabled people. According to this law, they will be referred to as users. In this word, as much as there is potentially true meaning, there is a negative meaning. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u95	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. Are there any lines on the speech of the National Representative Nedyalkov? I don't see anyone who wants to. Mr. Popov, a statement?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u96	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u97	Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u98	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My procedure also concerns a group of people who are put at a virtual disadvantage. It's about the Minister of Health's order.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u99	The procedure, I'm sorry, what's it for?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u100	Yeah, it's for you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u101	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u102	For the Minister's invitation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u103	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u104	The order of the Minister of Health, according to which elderly people have the right and the opportunity to shop in food stores and pharmacies only in the time range between 8:00 and 10.00, obviously creates very severe tensions in society, affects the rights of a group of Bulgarian citizens who are really disadvantaged. This order restricts the constitutional rights of Bulgarian citizens, puts them unable to provide their bread and medicines. Tails are hovering in front of stores and pharmacies, ID cards are requested from object guards without having these powers. Some pharmacies open after 9:00, in some settlements bread is delivered after 10:30. The minister, as I understand it from the media, has stated that if this measure did not work, it would change it. I think that at present, in this severe crisis, it is unacceptable for the Minister to play on trial/mistake. In this regard, please invite the Minister of Health to the National Assembly to provide clarification on this order and on the situation as well as on its future intentions regarding this order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u105	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Any other speeches? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I can't comment! This is about a hearing, there's a hearing procedure! I cannot understand by which Ruler should I invite, and how can I invite a minister who may not even be in the capital? [[Relations of MP Philip Popov.]] Are there any other statements? I can't see. If there is, raise your hands, please! Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u106	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Minister, honourable Members! As we announced in the meeting of the Committee on Social Activities, we will support the bill because we fully support its philosophy. Despite all the comments submitted so far, the Bill proposes amendments to the Personal Aid Act, which was adopted, made on the basis of an analysis ordered by the Ministry and presented to us by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. It shows how the practical application of this law will be implemented. It is in this analysis that two very serious problems are defined. These are: who are the entitled persons, i.e. to whom should we give the opportunity to have personal help? The other question is: what is the maximum hours for personal assistance that this new Personal Aid Act regulates. Another point is that the law itself, as it has been mentioned, has been adopted under considerable public pressure and, given that it has been adopted in such a regime, it is quite natural that it contains a number of gaps and weaknesses which, with these changes, we want and we agree that it needs to change. Here were expressed opinions about these 670 thousand people that it is an absolutely inadequate number. But 670,000 people in the state, according to the Ministry's data, have been certified for some kind of damage. So, in practice, according to this new law, which starts to operate from 1 January 2021 with these criteria, these 670 thousand have the theoretical opportunity to apply for personal assistance. In addition, they have the opportunity to apply for an indefinite number of hours. So a simple account shows that even if they apply for less than the specified number of hours, 670,000 applicants for personal assistance require 670 thousand assistants to be provided. I say again, it's theoretical, but there's this possibility. The reasons put forward in the Bill nowhere and in no way determine that existing users and users of personal assistance will be limited in any way. As mentioned earlier, yes, I will read to you the data from the Agency for Social Assistance by 8 November 2020 a total of 508 700 applications for individual evaluation have been submitted, with 267 000 being from the beginning of 2020. Colleagues, these are applications for individual evaluation. These applications are quite possible to be submitted as an application to provide an assistant for personal assistance. So anything that in this law allows it to be as a theoretical option, quite calmly can also be obtained in practice. So we will support the Bill in the desire, in the philosophy of this bill, to make a specific circle of lawmakers with much clearer criteria. Because, I suppose most of my colleagues know, there are four levels of dependence that categorize people who apply for personal help, and exactly in those degrees of dependence, to which a certain number of hours of personal assistance correspond. That is, we support the Ministry's desire through this bill to specify all these criteria. We support the Bill in the desire of the Ministry to make more serious control and naturally raise requirements for assistants for personal assistance. In general, I say once again, we support the Bill as a philosophy. If on our part there are proposals and additions, we will submit them between first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u107	Thank you, Mr. Genov. First line, Mrs. Klisurska, second line, Mr. Nedyalkov. Is there a third line request? I can't see.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u108	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Genov, just to clarify that the Commission is not on social activities, but on labour, social and demographic policy, and to clarify that at the moment, since the Law on Personal Aid has been in place, it is clear to all of us that the data, people who have obtained access to the right to personal assistance, are about 32,385 people, 685 thousand people would want to use foreign help!? Dear Mr. Genov, read your Law. The basis of this law is the individual assessment of needs, read the words of the mothers who protest outside. For the first time in 25 years, a social worker enters their homes thanks to this Personal Aid Act and makes an individual assessment of the needs of this person who has suffered. If it's 33,000 people right now, how are we going to make it 600,000? Why are you misleading the Bulgarian society, why are you misleading everyone? But I am convinced that you do not agree with what is happening at the moment, because the Law, unknown how, is again being inserted as fast as possible: Monday is being accepted by the Council of Ministers, on Tuesday it enters the Commission, on Wednesday it enters an extraordinary meeting and we look at it without hearing the voice of those people who have been struggling for so many years. And you say, under great public pressure. I will totally disprove you. We ratified the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in 2012. Is this the public pressure? Absolutely not. No. More like lack of talent, inactivity and incompetence made this thing happen six years later.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u109	Mrs. Klisurska, a little further from the microphone!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u110	Answer me these questions: why do people with disabilities become consumers, why now, when there are 33 thousand, you show that there are 600,000? Answer all the questions I asked you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u111	Quaestors, in the event of such emotional expressions, please reduce the sound of microphones, because unpleasant effects occur. Mr. Nedyalkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u112	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Genov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It's a very short line so I don't eat the weather. Mr. Genov, do not enter into this scheme: the law does not give, Bats Boyko gives. In this law, this particular scheme works. At the time this law was passed in front of the Prime Minister, with his blessing, we are now adopting a Law with proposals submitted by the Council of Ministers so that the social workers carrying out the individual assessment of the needs can tell people, "For you, the Law does not give this right.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u113	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. Mr. Genov, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u114	Dear Mr. Chairman, to answer Mrs. Klisurska. So, you're accusing us of distorting, how to express ourselves, distorting what the bill should present, and I can quite responsibly say that you are also distorting our grounds. No one has in any way said, and by reading the motives, there is no indication from them that all those people with permanent disabilities, the people who have personal assistants so far, they will somehow be limited. We are talking about the possibility in this law theoretically, once again I say, theoretically 670 thousand people to apply for personal assistants. If they start applying, if they get such approval and receive duty-free hours, then what do we do? So there is no need to distort the motives that we have said we will support. As for whether there was public pressure or there was no public pressure, I think there is no need for me to answer here. We all remember what the situation was the moment we passed this law. And as for why these people are called the Users, the reasons that are recorded in the motives, we also agree with them, because at the end of the day, people who are not documented are also in need of personal help. Why shouldn't they be allowed to? This law is ultimately not only for people who are disabled. It's about personal help. And Mr. Milkov...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u115	Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u116	Nedyalkov, Milko Nedyalkov, yes, I apologize. I think it's an absolutely untenable statement, and I don't need to comment on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u117	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Next statement Mrs. Klisurska, come in. Just please, a little further away from the microphones, they blow, pop and ruin your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u118	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mrs. Deputy Minister! I am making this statement because I am convinced that what will happen soon with the amendment of the Personal Aid Act will completely cripple the philosophy as it was in 2018. At the heart of the changes that are being offered to us at the moment are only money and not human destinies. We, as MPs, are elected here, called to settle better public relations for all Bulgarian citizens. Money is not the foundation of the Personal Aid Act, but the personal fate of those people who need support who do not have the opportunity to serve themselves, those people who are put in such a situation, and those mothers of children with disabilities, so that they have no other life beyond those deficits that have arisen in their family. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to read a line from the draft agreement which was signed on 9 October 2018 in the presence of the Prime Minister, in the presence of the mothers of children with disabilities, the Ombudsman and Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov. I read what Vladislav Goranov said: If it is our fault that the commitments are broken, we will suffer the just anger of those who stand beside us that we have violated the commitments made. What commitments did we make, you took the month of October 2018? You have taken the Law to have a restrictive framework such as we are currently offered to continue to operate in 2021 for a certain category of people with disabilities who are designated to be entitled to foreign aid. We also set the time frame for how many hours to serve these people and for them to be within 168 hours. We have determined the remuneration ratio of the personal assistants to only be 1.2 of the minimum wage by 2020 with the idea that 2021 this law will begin to work in its entirety, the philosophy of the Law to apply as it is, and it is according to the individual needs of the person who has the relevant deficit that needs assistance, and it will begin to fully apply to qualified aid. Because I also mentioned it in Mr. Genov's line, the mothers of children with disabilities. But they're not disabled children, they're still children. He says: My twenty-five-year-old son first saw him as a social worker when he came to prepare that individual assessment of needs. Remember the protests when the mothers of the disabled children said, "Let's decide to make this mechanism exist." We want it because we want to have our own life. We want to work, but someone to take care of our children. We are 24/7 at the disposal of our children, but we want to somehow get into circulation and have these children have their social contact with a professional who will help them get out of this isolation that they have been in for years. 2012 we adopt the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and ratify it 2018. Six years, seven national protests had to take place, the black flags had to be waved, the mothers of children with disabilities had to sit in front of the National Assembly for eight months. This is their personal assistance mechanism, which is so necessary. So what are we doing right now? We limit the framework again without any arguments, the arguments are money.. I am aware. But when we talked about how much these personal assistants have to receive in order for these people to be professionally taken care of, we said that from 2021 the coefficient would be 1.4. And it is not the minimum wage and its increase that is at the heart of the remuneration of the personal assistant, but our attitude towards those people who will care for those people with deficits. So, ladies and gentlemen, do not press the button, do not participate in what is offered to you by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, do not cripple the Law because its philosophy, and at the heart of its philosophy, is the individual need of every single person who has this deficit. And at the heart of it is not whether his personal assistant will assist him 168 hours in the course of the month, because there may be cases where there are people who have no relatives or relatives who need to care for more than 168 hours. The Labour Code allows it, and it could be two assistants. So think about what you're going to do right now. Do not support these amendments to the Personal Aid Act. And another conclusion that is not on the subject, but which is related to the behavior of the BSP parliamentary group. That is why we are not taking part in the quorum, because at the moment what you are doing with this legislation, this week, and the Labour Code you wanted to pass, you are taking away human rights, and you are not settling for the better public relations that we are called for. [[GERB lines]] Thank you. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u119	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. Are there lines? I can't see. I will use one message: in less than an hour, Deputy Prime Minister of Defence and Security Mr. Karakachanov will inform the National Assembly of the talks held with the Prime Minister of the Republic of Northern Macedonia Mr. Zoran Zaev, so I hope we will all be here to listen to this information. Are there any other speeches?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u120	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u121	Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u122	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I propose a procedure for extending today's meeting until the debates and voting on this point have been concluded. 1 and 2 of the proposals for today's agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u123	Thank you. Is there a counteroffer? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the proposal to extend the working time until the debate is concluded and to vote on points 1 and 2 of the agenda. They voted 123 MPs: 82, against 36, abstention 5. The proposal to extend working hours has been accepted. Second procedure. Mrs. Vasileva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u124	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I have a procedure. My proposal is: to the legislative part of today's meeting remain the initial item third on the agenda, namely the draft amendment and supplement to the Environmental Protection Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u125	Is there a reverse procedure? I don't see anyone who wants to. I put to the vote Ms. Vasileva's proposal that item three remain on the agenda and enter into the extension of working hours such as debate and vote. Mr. Kolev, are you waiting for a stoic vote? How do you vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u126	I am voting for you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u127	Thank you for that. They voted 123 MPs plus Georgi Kolev 124: for 82, against 34, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. [[National Representative Stanislav Ivanov wants the floor.]] Procedure? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I propose a procedure for extending the deadline for submitting proposals between the first and second reading of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications, which expires today, including until Tuesday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u129	Thank you. Is there a counteroffer? Here you go, Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u130	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, it seems to me that this deadline was extended several weeks ago to the maximum possible. So I formally make a reverse proposal and please verify how long this deadline has been extended.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u131	Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u132	Mr. Danchev, my procedure is regarding your speech.. No, it is not extended by maximum, and the maximum deadline expires next Friday. So I'm proposing to extend the deadline until next Tuesday, which is four days. We're entering the maximum deadline next Friday, so it's four days before the deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u133	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Vote mode, please. Mr. Kolev, what is your volition?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u134	I am voting for you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u135	Thank you. They voted 125 MPs plus Mr. Kolev 126: for 92, against 23, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. The period between first and second reading of the Law on Electronic Communications is extended until Tuesday next week, which is four days. Are there any other speeches on this point? Mrs. Angelova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u136	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take the floor because this House has said many untruths regarding the changes to the Personal Aid Act. I would like to stress once again that the changes to the Personal Aid Act do not take away any human rights, the rights of disabled children and people who are scheduled in the Personal Aid Act when it was adopted in 2018. The monthly rate of time for providing personal assistance is maintained up to 168 hours a month. In the following year, 670,000 disabled people will be able to benefit from personal assistance. They are real users if they decide and submit an application. So far, 33,000 have been signed this year. 196 personal assistance contracts with 33,000 personal assistants. 191. The wage ratio of personal assistants is frozen as it is in 2020, but the minimum wage of 650 BGN is increased in the following year. and really personal assistants will receive higher remuneration than what they received in 2020. The control and quality of assistant care increases. The circle of persons does not change, that is, those who are right, they remain. On the contrary, the circle of faces is expanding. These are the truths regarding the changes to the Personal Aid Act. It is very easy when it comes to social laws, when it comes to people with disabilities, children with disabilities, the socially weak, to use populism and manipulation, but let's see the figures and the real facts and not give in to manipulations. I call on everyone to vote for the amendments to the Personal Aid Act. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u137	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Are there lines? I can't see. Are there any other speeches? I can't see. I'm calling off the debate. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Personal Aid Act, No 002-01-66, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 10 November 2020. Vote 142 MPs: 91, against 48, abstention 3. The bill was passed at first reading. Mrs. Angelova, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u138	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the basis of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly make a procedural proposal to reduce the deadline for proposals between the first and second votes of the bill for amendment and supplement of the Personal Aid Act, namely the time limit for proposals between the first and second votes to be four days.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u139	Is there a counteroffer? Mr. Nedyalkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u140	Dear Mr. Chairman, I am making the opposite suggestion that the time for making proposals between first and second readings should not be shortened according to our rules. The main motive is that the haste I said is that this law should be passed before the State Budget Act. But I want to tell you that in the motives that you have adopted, this law says that this law, if it is adopted, has no bearing on the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u141	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. I put to the vote the proposed procedural proposal made by the MP Mrs. Angelova to reduce the period between the first and second voting of the draft in question to four days. They voted 141 MPs: for 93, against 47, you abstained 1. The proposal to shorten the period between the first and second votes has been adopted. We continue to provide information to the MPs from the Deputy Prime Minister and Defence Minister Mr. Krasimir Karakachanov at his request. Mr. Karakachanov, you can take your assigned seat for the information, and it is the stands of the National Assembly. You can take off your mask, it's not the War Department, it's a little more free mode. [[Radio.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u142	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am tasked by the Bulgarian Prime Minister Mr. Boyko Borisov to explain to the Bulgarian Parliament the talks that took place last week with representatives of the Republic of Northern Macedonia on Bulgaria's position on the EU membership of the Republic of Northern Macedonia. And as the prime minister has commitments, and Mrs. Zaharieva, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs, is on a cross-border mission, I was tasked because in the last week of the Prime Minister's order, I am part of the team that spoke with representatives of Northern Macedonia. One. The Bulgarian Government in its positions in the talks with representatives of the Republic of Northern Macedonia adheres, firstly, to the Treaty of Friendship and Good Neighborhood of 1 August 2017, and secondly, to the framework position of the Bulgarian Government of 9 October 2019, which was confirmed by the Declaration of the Bulgarian Parliament of 10 October 2017. Regarding the talks we are having, we state clearly and unambiguously the Bulgarian position that Bulgaria continues to support the idea of integration of the Western Balkans into the European structures, but this cannot be done unconditionally and when the contracts that exist in bilateral terms between Bulgaria and the Balkan countries. The Macedonian government has offered several options... [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u143	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u144	...based on this framework position, which you have known very well since last year. And since in some media, I would say quite tendentially, the information appears that the Bulgarian government is almost pressured and ready to retreat, or has retreated, or has made concessions unacceptable and unacceptable to the Bulgarian national interests, I would like to say, first of all, that no one has pressed the Bulgarian government. The German Presidency is currently expressing only the position to be a mediator if necessary for talks between the two countries. So pressure on the Bulgarian government has not been applied. Secondly, in the talks with representatives of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, you know that on Tuesday it was their delegation, headed by their Prime Minister Zaev, with the Minister for European Affairs, with the Minister of Foreign Affairs and their teams. On the Bulgarian side attended Prime Minister Boyko Borisov, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs Mrs. Zaharieva and my humble personality. At these talks, Bulgaria confirmed its clear position that we are for the membership of Macedonia in the European Union, but we believe that the agreement of 1 August 2017 is not implemented as its provisions are. There's been a delay in the work of the Historical Commission. The decisions of this historic committee themselves, which, in our opinion, are few, and according to the Macedonian country, are very numerous, yet they are not publicly announced and are not being conducted as part of their state policy. We do not see any change in the language of hatred, not only on the part of the media, because the argument being put forward is that the media are private and cannot be controlled. I will not comment on the extent and extent to which this is true, but there are also state media, there are institutions that use the same language of hate and plant negativity and hatred towards the Bulgarian people, Bulgaria and everything Bulgarian. There is absolutely no progress regarding the change of the educational system through which the hatred of the Bulgarian people is actually generated. There is no change in respect of all those signs, monuments, tablets, which, first of all, do not correspond to the historical truth, and, secondly, they also hate the Bulgarian people with the inscriptions and meanings given to them. We have put in place and have shown examples, including barracks, where there are inscriptions with frankly extreme anti-Bulgarian content, and in some of these barracks under NATO during the training or training of Bulgarian military personnel, apart from other partner countries. That is to say, on our part, the position that we have expressed that without overcoming the speech of hatred, without having a clear revision of the educational system, which is built on false facts and creating hatred for the Bulgarian people, without overcoming the issues which on the part of Skopje are a matter of historical disputes and denial, I am talking about historical personalities and events, there is no other position for Bulgaria than that which it has stated, namely, that it will not give consent to the imposition of the first intergovernmental conference to begin negotiations with the Republic of Macedonia. We believe that Bulgaria has made enough gestures in these nearly 30 years since the first recognized the Republic of Macedonia as a sovereign independent state. Bulgaria has made enough gestures over the past three years, when after signing the agreement on 1 August 2017, despite the minimal progress on this treaty, it agreed to Macedonia's NATO membership. Unfortunately, perhaps the ruling coalition in Skopje believes that once we have opened the door for NATO, Bulgaria can be pressured or under other political and conjunctural considerations to agree to cancel its framework position from last year and the Declaration of Parliament. On our part it is repeatedly explained that the Bulgarian government has no intention and cannot skip a decision of the Bulgarian Parliament, as Bulgaria is a parliamentary republic. For us, the question remains open. The last talks, as I mentioned earlier, were on Tuesday. They lasted a very long time from morning until late afternoon with little interruptions. On Wednesday, there was an online conference attended by me and Mrs Zaharieva as deputy prime ministers authorized to conduct these talks, on their part representatives at the same level at which we did not reach any new solution, mainly because of the reluctance of colleagues from Skopje to accept very clearly the provisions laid down in the Bulgarian framework position. Although it has been repeatedly explained that Bulgaria cannot accept an identity which is being built on falsified facts from Bulgarian history, overturning Bulgarian history and to this day it is being built, including through the educational system, cultural and all other institutions on an anti-Bulgarian basis. The dispute is not at all one person or another in our history, honourable gentlemen and ladies MPs. The dispute is not at all limited to the personality of Gotse Delchev, as some of the government's representatives in Skopje are trying to explain. Gotse Delchev is only one of the personalities in Bulgarian history. He is one of the biggest, but not the only, who in the last 70 years has been subject to forgery as a case, activity, documentation and ideas by the then People's Republic of Macedonia, the Federative Republic of Yugoslavia and today's Republic of Northern Macedonia. I stress that in the presence of dozens of documentary, historical publications issued in the Republic of Macedonia itself, issued to their public archives, in which documents very clearly speak what are the historical figures, the population, the language of this population and its culture, the official authorities continue to deny the obvious facts. We have in no way changed Bulgaria's position and we have not given up helping our compatriots in the Republic of Macedonia to become part of the European Union, but very clearly, I would say and categorically, we have explained that this cannot be done at the expense of the Bulgarian national interest, at the expense of withdrawing part of the Bulgarian national, cultural, historical identity, both in terms of language and in terms of history. Including we have raised the question, it is in the framework position itself and we have proposed it, for the rehabilitation of all those people, who after 1944 in the then People's Republic of Macedonia and Yugoslavia are repressed as Bulgarians. A process that ended a long time ago throughout Eastern Europe. It hasn't started in Macedonia. So I can say this in relation to the previous steps that the government has taken and assure the honourable gentlemen and ladies of the National Assembly that the Bulgarian position adheres firmly to the treaty we have since 2017, to the framework position voted by the Bulgarian government and confirmed in the Declaration of the Bulgarian Parliament of 10 October last year. If you have any questions, I can answer and I'm at your disposal. Thank you. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u145	No questions asked, Mr. Karakachanov. We've got a lot of work to do. You can talk somewhere outside the Chamber. [[Radio.]] Thank you very much for the information. You were punctual and thorough. Have a good day. We'll continue with the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u146	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u147	Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u148	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! Thank you for the quick response, but, Mr. Chairman, we were expecting the Prime Minister after all. From the point of view of the fact that the Deputy Prime Minister himself is ready to answer questions, I understand that such a procedure is currently not possible. We will still submit a request for such a hearing, which gives the opportunity to ask questions and to receive answers. Of course, we could go out now, make a statement, but I think the subject is serious enough and we should have the opportunity for a meaningful debate within the Bulgarian Parliament. I hope that both you and the colleagues of GERB will support the request that we will submit today for a hearing of the Prime Minister on this subject, even more so, will have passed the General Affairs Council planned for November 17th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u149	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. You have reason to submit such a request. Moreover, until now, this topic seems to me to be consensual to all of us in the National Assembly. So it wouldn't be bad to call again the military minister and deputy prime minister of the Republic of Bulgaria. Mr. Karakachanov, do you want to...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u150	I take advantage of my right, Mr. Chairman. As Mr. Simeonov said, this is a topic, as well as on the topic of COVID-19, on which we should have absolutely unanimous and unanimous cooperation. I would say that even on the topic of Macedonia, looking at sociology, looking at the reaction of normal political parties and formations in Bulgaria, there is an absolute consensus and that is a very good sign. This is a very good sign, first of all, to the Bulgarian society, that these processes, which have been running for decades in a neighbouring country, create problems in our relations, create problems in relations between ordinary people, create conflicts, media shootings and hate language. The Bulgarian society is clear and clear that Bulgaria will defend its historical rights and its national interests. It is also a good sign to our partners abroad who, in one part, do not understand the nature of the dispute, because in talks with many European representatives during my meetings in NATO and in the European Union, I have been asked questions that show that the essence of the problem is not clear in our partners and their diplomats. This is also a good sign and it is clear that it is not a matter of political conjuncture, but a question of defending the Bulgarian national interest, and it is an honor to the Bulgarian Parliament that the parliamentary represented parties in the Bulgarian Parliament have a clear, clear and worthy Bulgarian position. What you requested today as information, I gave it to you. It is your right to request a hearing with specific questions. I just want to say that I deliberately do not present to you texts of individual proposals that we have made. They are in the sense, as I have already said, of the framework position and of the Declaration of Parliament. After all, diplomacy has a principle of confidentiality, which, unfortunately, on the other side is being violated, including by overreacting. Because you remember that information was leaked, copied by some of our media, that almost my colleague, Deputy Prime Minister Zaharieva, signed something at the Berlin meeting. There's no such thing. At the meeting in Berlin, which was brokered by the German Presidency, Bulgaria reiterated its position. Germany has offered to make a single non-Paper, but, as is known to the people involved in diplomacy, this is neither signed nor discussed until after it has worked. Unfortunately, Skopje has leaked this information in a way that is, in a way, incorrect, supposedly through the independent press in a European country. Bulgaria has not signed anything and has made absolutely no concessions on this issue. On the other hand, I would say that this was a gesture by Minister Zaharieva because there is no practice in which, in recent days, before a decision was made, a Member State would make similar gestures of goodwill to a candidate country. In the present case, unfortunately, the candidate country not only did not show understanding and gratitude, but tried to speculate with this topic. This topic was also put in the talks in the same speculative way that they tried to do it through the media, so a similar debate could be useful after 17 or similar hearings. It would only lead to an even clearer Bulgarian, national, state and state position. Thank you for your attention. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for your patience.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u151	Thank you, Mr. Karakachanov, you were incredibly gluttonous and short, as always, I would say. Let's move on to the next point: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR HELPING EARTH PRODUCERS. Who will introduce us to the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Food? Here you are, Mr. Matsurev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Support Act No 002-01-65, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 10 November 2020. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 11 November 2020, discussing the quoted bill. Mrs. Lilia Stoyanova took part in the work of the Commission in the Directorate-General of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, who presented the draft and the reasons for it on behalf of the importers. With the Bill, the Integrated Administration and Control System is complemented by an electronic service system. Texts relating to the system of identification of agricultural parcels shall be reviewed. It is also envisaged that free sources of information may be used when updating the information in the system for identification of agricultural parcels. It shall be possible for interested parties to disagree with the data in the system of identification of agricultural parcels with regard to reference parcels. Texts shall also be revised with regard to a layer of permanent grassland, in addition to the prohibition on ploughing and transformation of areas included in a layer of permanent grasslands, shall be prohibited and shall not be used for their intended use. Accordingly, the recovery will be made by the intruder and, where not established, by the owner or user on a legal basis of the area. The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry is provided with the opportunity to receive data from state or municipal authorities. Texts are included to limit the possibility of receiving support for areas not included in the registered area of use by farmers. An additional limitation of the legal basis for outstanding tenants or tenants of land from the state and municipal land fund is introduced. It is envisaged that, in the case of participation in voluntary agreements and business distributions under the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land, the size of the properties with legal basis will be up to the size of theuse sets approved by the order of an authorised person. The cases for which payment of financial support may be made or reduced shall be completed. The period for the application of State aid is extended to help in the form of a discount on the value of the excise duty on the capital goods used in the primary production and until 31 December 2023. The obligation to place a part of the documents included in the applications for support shall be revoked. A five-year extension of the term expires on 22 December 2020, in which the land under art. 19th para. 1 of the Law on the ownership and use of agricultural land, the so-called residual land fund, can be provided by the municipal councils under the conditions of § 27, para. 2 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Property and Use of Agricultural Land (SG. 62 from 2010) . Within the new five-year period, except under the current order, municipal councils will be able to provide these lands for the implementation of technical infrastructure facilities; for activities under the Law on Underground Treasures and other projects for which forced alienation is permitted; for the creation of new or extension of the boundaries of existing urbanised territories, when a common planning plan for the respective territory enters into force; for investment projects with a Class A Investment Certificate under the Investment Promotion Act; for energy sites and for the marketing of agricultural land. The orders will be carried out by decision of the municipal council, adopted by a majority of two thirds of the total number of advisers. In the subsequent discussion the MPs from BSP's parliamentary group for Bulgaria said they would refrain from supporting the Bill, as some of the proposals are unclear and will cause problems if they are not refined. They insisted between the first and second votes on establishing a mechanism to protect the interests of farmers who entered into a lease or lease with private entities similar to that provided for in respect of the land of the state and municipal land fund. From the parliamentary group of the Political Party GERB agreed that the texts should be refined between the first and second votes of the Bill. Following the debates held, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 9 votes in favour, without the opposition, and 6 votes in abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Agricultural Support Act, No 002-01-65, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 10 November 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u153	Thank you, Mr. Matsurev. I'm opening the debate on the bill. Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u154	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The law belongs to the Council of Ministers and proposes a number of changes, with many of them related to technical issues in the identification of agricultural parcels. The problem is that these technical issues, which are governed by the Bill, have so far been subject to a regulation. By submitting them to the Agricultural Support Act, importers, as they have spoken and during the discussion in the Commission, want to make sure that sanctioned farmers who have sanctions for unlawfully submitted support parcels are sanctioned and the court recognises their objections. However, colleagues, when the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests, the Fund of Education has not fulfilled their commitments and obligations to identify eligibility parcels, have not carried out their checks and consider that it is the Law that prevents them from proving their reasons in court, it seems far-reaching. The transformation of a law that is basic in agriculture, full of technical texts that create the prerequisites to protect the interests of the state, seems to me that it is not right from the point of view of procedures and from the point of view of the philosophy which is put into a law. Along with the most general proposals made regarding the change of purpose and the sale of land respectively, we have objections on another issue. It is related to the payment of the obligation of those who rent land from the state and municipal land fund to fulfil their obligations, i.e. to have paid the rent. But here in this category, private individuals who have also provided their land for use, but at the same time did not receive the relevant rents. This is a problem found in recent years, but so far it has not been solved. With this bill, he has not yet been resolved. Therefore, in this part, between first and second reading, we will also propose that contracts that are for rent and lease with private individuals are also subject to control, registration in agricultural services and non-payment of the respective rents be brought to an end of the possibility of receiving support based on legal grounds. I believe that in the Commission, what we have discussed, what we have put as a question, was clear and firm, and I hope between first and second reading that we will have an understanding of the texts that will solve this issue, which really cannot be delayed. A change of the law on ownership and use of agricultural land is proposed in "Transitional and final provisions." It is a matter of expiry of the term under art. 19. These are land of the residual fund, which are granted to municipalities, not to sell them, as the restitution has not yet ended and there may be requests for the restoration of ownership of agricultural land by owners. However, this opens the door for proposals relating to the fact that the municipalities, in a two-thirds decision of the municipal council, can sell land in certain cases. We're worried about a few things. First, that investment projects which received a class A investment certificate are allowed to request the purchase of land. This is under the Investment Act in Bulgaria, but there are no sanctions and there is no possibility if the municipality sells this land to owners, the investment project is not implemented and there is absolutely no guarantee that this land will be purchased and then it can enter into turnover. In the same way very clearly it is not understood and the motive of the importers is that we have detailed plans of the municipalities, but we are giving them the opportunity to expand the construction boundaries. Colleagues, when we open the door for the sale of land in this particular case, i.e. land on which the property has not been restored, we create a prerequisite for reducing the arable land. As a man who deals with agriculture, who basically has an idea in other European countries how to protect every square meter of agricultural land, I want to tell you that the possibility of it being urbanized, built is something that needs to be stopped, including the Law. Therefore, cases where land can be sold must be controlled and the possibility of large urbanised centres constantly reducing arable land, which is an extremely valuable resource for each country. From this point of view, from the fact that we want to have control over the sale of land by the municipal councils of the residual land fund, we will make our proposals and I hope we have an understanding precisely in the philosophy of the land being an invaluable resource and must be protected mostly through legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u155	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mrs. Belova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u156	Dear Professor Bachvarova, we fully support your view that in the Law we should regulate more precisely the legal protection of individuals who own agricultural land. On behalf of GERB's parliamentary group, we support you and we hope that you will submit this proposal, which we will fully support.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u157	Thank you, Mrs. Belova. Are there any other lines? No. Holes? Will you use the hole, Mrs. Bachvarova, or not? No. Thank you. Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u158	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Prof. Bachvarova presented in detail the proposed amendments to the Law. I would like to look a little more politically, as the Law is still at first reading, because, honourable Members of the National Assembly, you know that agricultural land is a national wealth, it is a fundamental good and its conservation is extremely important. And because in the Law, in some elements, which Professor Bachvarova said, opens a loophole, I want to give a few examples. You know that in 1967 the German Federal Constitutional Court came up with a decision that trade in agricultural land, at all the problems with agricultural land are not like the other assets and there is no free way for this process to be carried out. In France, the so-called SaFER public companies were established in 1960. These are land housing and coma companies, and notice, there are not even one square meter without coordination with the state to be changed, traded, sold, there should be a special project. Here in the Law, what you are proposing to expand to urbanised territories, you know that in the new Community-business policy, basically suburban agriculture is extremely important as one of the priorities for enlargement. Imagine that larger cities decide to expand and seize this residual fund from agricultural land. Instead of having a policy to expand suburban agricultural areas and to develop urban agriculture, we can end up with some neighborhoods, with some closed complexes and break the principle that I told you agricultural land is a public good. It is a good thing that the question of permanent grasslands is being posed. Some changes are being made in relation to decisions in the course of judicial proceedings. You know that about 1 million are these grasslands. Summer remembers the problem of bees in the Pleven region and in some other places, where precisely by ploughing up such permanent grasslands, with uncontrolled fertilization, spraying, some of the hives were destroyed. It is a good thing that here, based on these problems, the amendments to the Bill are being proposed. With regard to an extension of the State aid period in the form of a discount on the value of excise duty on gas oil. It is good that the deadline is being extended by another three years to 31 December 2023. I personally do not agree that you have recorded that this will contribute to sustainable competitive and market-oriented agriculture. It's an element. There are many other factors that will lead us to competitive agriculture. That's pretty much what I wanted to share. So at first reading we will abstain. We will make our proposals between first and second readings and I am glad that colleagues from GERB will support our proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u159	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Are there any lines to Mr. Georgiev's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Petrov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u160	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to comment on this bill, and it is also positive from the talks I have with colleagues from our parliamentary group of "United patriots" I see an adjustment in them to support this law because it is timely. I do not agree with Professor Bachvarova that there are generally technical indicators included in the Law, which should be in regulations and in the PMS, but under our Bulgarian conditions I think this is necessary. Yes, there are, and there are strict parameters under which legal conditions are laid down. We have not yet come to this development to have quite common justifications, because we see that they are being circumvented. I also welcome the fact that the Law explicitly states that information systems must be united. There was in this regard, during the meeting, lines why are they put in the Law? Because with us, we really need to put things on the legal basis in many other respects in order to implement them. And this is very important that we do not yet have a complete reconciliation between the information systems... I mean SPC and ISUN, which concern the Cadastre, respectively, which affects farmers. As for the legal grounds, indeed what Professor Bachvarova said is obvious, it should happen, one cannot discriminate against another. But here I ask myself the question: why is the law not respected, which indicates clearly and precisely what can any tenant do, every user, and what can he receive as punishment if he has not paid his rents? This part of our legislation, unfortunately, is not being implemented properly. As regards these investments, which must be made in Class A, and the remarks that Professor Bachvarova has for unexplained residual property and so on, I support what is put in the legal form, namely not to wait for the completion of the cases, which 30 years have come to an end to enable such investors to actually be able to make investments that will benefit the entire municipality. Two people from the municipality cannot stop the development of the whole municipality. The law really does have some situations that need to be worked out and, unfortunately, I would like to make an opinion that it has not yet been tabled. As a society, we have not grown up to make sure that the sale of land is put in place as it is in Europe and that there are certain limits to trade in land. For example, a France has set limits that it cannot under a few acres to make purchases, sales and so on so as not to break up the land. Otherwise, I believe that the amendments are timely and must be adopted and supported together with these good proposals that the opposition has put forward, which is very rare, unfortunately, in recent months of sharpening relations in our parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u161	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u162	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Petrov, I disagree in the part of your speech that society is not yet ripe for free trade in agricultural land. There's no way for society to mature. We need to, as legislators, make sure that... You know, over the last five years in terms of land relations legislation, you remember, first of all, we had to develop a land code, a land relations strategy. You remember that on December 5th last 2019 it was imported, then withdrawn the law on agricultural land. That is, there is one saga in terms of land relations that we, as a legislative body, must decide. And I have repeatedly said from this tribune that in the first place in this legislation we must implement the resolution, implement the resolution of the European Parliament of 27 April 2017, which is scheduled for Bulgaria and for several other former countries in which the concentration of agricultural land has taken huge amounts. And they quote that our agriculture is going to Latin American, and you know that the backbone of European agriculture is family agriculture. So, Mr. Petrov, if there is this consensus on a political level, I think about the adoption of the resolution, there are very clearly regulated all the problems that we are commenting on today in this House on this bill, things will come to pass and Bulgaria will really be a European agricultural country, not a Latin American country in terms of land relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u163	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Mr. Petrov? You will not use your right to the back. Are there any other statements? I don't see anyone else who wants to make speeches. I'm calling off the debate. We are going to vote on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Support Act No 002-01-65, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 10 November 2020. The voting regime on this important bill tabled on such a great date.. 10 November. Mr. Nunev, will you support this important bill with your volition?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u164	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u165	Thank you for being in this state again on your battle post. Thank you. They voted from the House 98 Members of Parliament and 1 Member of Parliament on the Internet. They became 99 Members of the National Assembly. There are 76 plus 1 online from the hall and are available for: 77, against 3, abstention 19. The motion is accepted. The bill was passed at first reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u166	I want a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u167	Mrs. Belova, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u168	Dear Mr. Chairman, I propose the time limit for written proposals under art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Rules of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Aid Act to be reduced to three days.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u169	Thank you. Does anyone have a second opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the procedural proposal of the National Representative Maria Belova to reduce the duration of the bill for amendment and supplement to the Support Act for farmers to three days. Vote 96 MPs: for 76, against 12, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Thus, the deadline between the first and second votes on the bill will be three days. Let us welcome the Minister of Finance, who has come to respect our meeting. Mr. Kiril Ananiev, welcome! Let's congratulate him with his great desire and interest in the next point: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE COUNTERPARTY LAW AND COMPLIANCE OF THE ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION LAW. Apparently he's sympathetic to this bill, so he came early. Thank you again, Mr. Ananiev. Who will present the report of the Committee on Environment and Water? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u170	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I will present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe on the first vote of the Draft Law amending the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Environmental Protection, No 054-01-99, submitted by the National Representative Ivelina Vassileva and a group of MPs on 23 October 2020. At a regular meeting held on 29 October 2020, the Committee on Environment and Water discussed a bill amending the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Environmental Protection, No 054-01-99, submitted by the National Representative Ivelina Vasileva and a group of MPs on 23 October 2020. The meeting of the Ministry of Environment and Water is attended by Ms. Michaela Dotsova, acting Secretary-General. On behalf of the importers, the bill and the reasons for it were presented by Mr. Mladen Shishkov. He stressed that the project has been introduced in view of the tensions created in the last few weeks in society regarding the registration of wells and the epidemiological situation at the moment. Currently, the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Environmental Protection Act provide for a deadline for submission of applications to the pool directorates for water registration of water-based land facilities, which expires on 27 November 2020. Within this period, applications must be submitted by the owners of groundwater water-installed by 28 January 2000 and by water-installed facilities built until 23 December 2016 for which construction permits have not been issued and which are not entered in the register under art. 118d, para. 3 of the Water Act. The same applies to well owners to meet their own needs located within the boundaries of settlements and settlement entities for which no applications for entry in the register have been submitted until 27 November 2018. In accordance with art. 118d, para. 6 of the Water Act, underground water installations which are not listed in the pool director's records of underground water installations in the territory of the relevant pool management area shall be liquidated. In view of the current provision and in relation to the epidemiological situation, as well as in order to prevent the accumulation of people in the preparation and submission of the necessary documents for the registration of the facilities in the relevant pool directorate, it is necessary to extend the approaching deadline for submission of applications by the debtors. The proposed extension shall be for a period of two years, namely until 28 November 2022. An opinion from the Ministry of Environment and Water, which was presented by Mrs Dotsova, was received under the bill. Attitude on the submitted bill took the MPs Manol Genov, Rumen Georgiev, Atanas Kostadinov, Krasimir Bogdanov and Ivelina Vasileva. Mr. Genov and Mr. Georgiev agreed that the BSP parliamentary group will support the Bill, but they believe that there is once again an example of unfinished work by the administration. They believe that there has not been a good explanatory campaign and it is necessary to analyse what has not been done so far so that there will be no problem again after two years. They highlighted that they have proposals that will be tabled between the first and second votes on the bill. In addition, Mr. Kostadinov expressed his opinion that the time limit for underground use facilities was extended, where the water quantities were significantly higher and asked a question to the representative of the Ministry of Environment and Water, whether such reference was made and whether the number of facilities and water flow rates were known. Mr. Bogdanov expressed his support to the Draft on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the United Patriarchs. He believes that through the Bill, apart from the aim of avoiding the crowding of many people in one place in the current situation, but will also clear all ambiguities about the implementation of the Law. Ms. Ivelina Vassileva noted that in relation to the epidemiological situation which occurred in March, a series of measures were taken to alleviate the administrative deadlines. The current proposal is another step towards easing people and avoiding risks to their health. With regard to information campaigns, it noted that greater interaction with local authorities is needed. After the discussion and the vote held, the Committee on Environment and Water with 16 votes for................................................................................................... He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Law amending the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the Environment, No 054-01-99, submitted by the National Representative Ivelina Vassileva and a group of MPs on 23 October 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u171	Thank you, Mrs. Todorova. I'm opening the debate. Here's an importer's opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u172	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Following the many signals received by citizens and in view of the evolution of the epidemiological situation with the spread of COVID-19, in order to prevent the accumulation of people who have failed to prepare and submit the necessary documents for the registration of their water-based facilities in the relevant pool directorate, it is necessary to extend the deadline which expires on 27 November 2020. The proposed extension is until 28 November, which is fully in line with the epidemiological situation in the country. In § 41, para. 1 and para. 7 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Draft Law amending the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Environmental Protection Act provides for a deadline which is 27 November 2020, for submission of applications to the pool directorates for the management of water for the registration of land-based facilities by the owners of groundwater water-based facilities built until 28 January 2000, and of water-based facilities constructed until 23 December 2016, for which the relevant building permits have not been issued, which are not entered in the Register under art. 118d, para. 3 of the Water and Well Owners Act for meeting own needs located at the border of settlements in the settlement formation, for which they have not submitted an application for entry in the Register under art. 118d, para. 3 et c. 5 under the Water Act. In accordance with art. 118d, para. 6 of the Water Act, the groundwater underground facilities which are not listed in the pool director's records of the groundwater water installations on the territory of the relevant pool management area shall be liquidated. Given that there are four pool directorates in our country with several branches and with a view to spreading the COVID-19, our fellow MPs and I are making this proposal for an extension of the deadline for registration. In conclusion, I would like to draw attention to two facts: a fee for registration of water and equipment for own needs is not paid and that according to art. 43, para. 2 of the Water Act "Natural persons, owners and users of movable properties located at the border of settlements and settlement formation are entitled to free use up to 10 cubic metres per day for their own needs.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u173	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetkov. I'm opening the debate. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Mr. Genov. Others? Mr. Bogdanov and Mr. Georgiev. Mr. Kostadinov, did you raise your hand or did I think so?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u174	I'm still thinking.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u175	You're still thinking well. Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u176	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! The arguments that sounded here and on the part of the importers are strong enough, but I have one thing to say. This is another law which may have already become tens in this term, on which we extend or change the term. Here's the alibi: right, coronavirus, pandemic, epidemic. Well, this provision has been adopted since 2016. Such epidemiological hazards have been present since the beginning of this year. Apparently someone has been asleep for years, I'm talking about the one who had to implement the Law, and hasn't done his job. The Ministry of Environment and Water has various information campaigns. Certain media are being served for and otherwise so that they can promote certain initiatives of the Ministry of Environment and Water. The problem with the registration of these wells for their own needs was somehow forgotten and left aside. And now, when the public began to react when people did not know that this was not paid, that no fees were due, they began to ask, the media began to bawl out the question what would happen, how will it happen, because the information, and the demand that there is. I have asked Minister Dimitrov a question is not aware at all how many possible wells will be registered under this article. If anyone tries to...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u177	Anyway, I'm sorry, can you talk to me on the bill?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u178	Yeah, I'm talking about the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u179	No, you're not talking about the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u180	I'm talking about the unfinished business and why we have to do it again, Mr. Simeonov...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u181	You have a specific text.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u182	Come on, listen to what I'm saying and don't replicate my ass. So we will support this law, but I would also like to point out one more thing - we will make an appropriate proposal between first and second readings so that the powers of local authorities can be extended and they can join this campaign. Because, Mr. Simeonov, we have a bright example from the Veterinary Procedure Act, where mayors and mayors help in this case and are part of this information campaign. They can also be representatives of the pool directorates, because we said here what a small capacity they have that they do not have offices. In other words, the mayors and mayors of settlements can be included in this information campaign and can collect in a certain way the requests of the owners who are willing to register these wells. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u183	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u184	And don't try to interrupt me!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u185	Well, you're off to analyze the Ministry's work. We have a bill right now, you're not talking about it, you're talking about common political statements. You have the right to a declaration, take your ten minutes, make a political declaration. We're wasting time. It's not under the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u186	You can't take the item on the agenda!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u187	Keep your voice down, please. So, Mr. Bogdanov, come in. Excuse me, are there any lines? I won't. Mr. Bogdanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u188	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! The joint patriots will support the proposed bill with a clear awareness that many speculations have been made on the subject. In public space, the view was that almost after registration of wells would require some fees, some payments, people would be burdened with additional tax or other financial burdens, which, of course, does not correspond to the truth. And I do not know whether there is another Member State of the European Union that does not have a precise and clear register of the country's water resources. From this point of view, the Law in the version in which it now exists is a good law. Another point is that although the deadline was not at all short to comply with these provisions, it was not respected and perhaps there are objective reasons for this, but as MPs we cannot allow wells to be destroyed, water resources that exist at present to be destroyed. For this reason, I think it is very correct that the proposal of the importers, among which we are also part of the representatives of the...................................... to extend the relevant deadline. At this time, let something be cleaned up that is currently hindering citizens to comply with the provisions of the Law, let all parties be examined and yet one term, especially in this tense situation where we will have to force people to queue, given the epidemic situation, is not the best solution. I therefore believe that two years of extension is extremely important and extremely timely. So once again, I am expressing the position of the United Patriarchs and we support this bill and we will vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u189	Thank you, Mr. Bogdanov. Are there lines? I don't see anyone who wants to. Any other speeches? Mr. Kostadinov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u190	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We did a good job with the surface water, and now we're driving the underground. This is evident in this bill and in another one, which yesterday did not go to a meeting of the Environmental Commission. My question, rather, my statement, is in the following direction. Very well, if you've met the transcript, you see the questions we've asked. In our desire to support this delay, we have asked questions regarding our concern about two circumstances. First of all, why is it extending by two years? Why does it take so long for something that had to be done this month? It's inexplicable to us. The concern comes from the second fact that by releasing from such registration those who will use water for domestic purposes, and these are 10 ccs per day, colleagues, which, according to the negotiations with the European Commission, this is acceptable for Bulgaria, are released and all business users for two years. We directly asked the Ministry of Environment and Water: what is the number of underground drillings of sources using groundwater, what is their capacity cubes and how many will go in two years, given that we postpone registration? I want to tell you that Bulgaria is definitely not rich in surface water, but in this way, in which groundwater is managed, Bulgaria will soon be poor in groundwater, and it is believed that we have a good resource in general. Last but not least, colleagues, you should know by making such decisions that this is a violation of the Water Management Framework Directive, which will also lead to sanctions against Bulgaria. The cost of water services must be reimbursed. It sounds extremely populistic to provide free water, even more for economic needs, let alone not register them. So we're mixed feelings. There was tension because it wasn't well-explained enough. And I end up with the following because the time is coming and other people are talking about the filing of registration is such an administrative act in which the postmark, without going to the Basin Directorate, can verify the end of the term and enter the period. So the COVID thesis sounds pretty good, but it's pretty fictional in this case. A letter in the mail to the Swimming Directorate will confirm that the deadline has been met. This is the nature of this administrative act, which is requested in the case by the pool directorates. Please be very careful, very tolerant. What we do leads us to.. after we release aquaculture for free use of water, prepares up to 50 cc's of business users per day to pass only to the authorised, that is to say, excuse, only registration and not authorisation. We'd be in serious trouble if that's how we run the underground. Many colleagues say that the water underground horizons on the territory of Bulgaria are critically exhausted. Let's have a reference and an analysis of whether this is the case, to what extent it is and then extend this term by two years. Two years is too long an administrative deadline, and I think there's something else going on here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u191	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov, for the precise statement on the substance of the first reading. Are there lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Mrs. Vasileva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u192	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of Parliament, I would like very briefly on behalf of the importers, among whom we are colleagues from GERB and from the "United patriots" to thank those of the speakers who expressed support for this bill. I think he's important, he's expected of people, because he has tensions because the deadline for registration is coming up soon. It is known that in cases where underground facilities are not registered, they are subject to liquidation. Taking into account the context in which we are approaching the deadline, namely the pandemic situation and the efforts to limit health risks, we have proposed limiting the deadline. With regard to the observations expressed by MPs on the left, several clarifications. First of all, on the subject of questions asked, I would like to clarify that information has been provided by the Ministry of Environment and Water. I am convinced that if it is necessary and additional, it will be provided. I also think it is wrong to speculate on a legal act that has been in force for many years. It is related to the possibility for people to use up to 10 ccs per day for their own needs. I would like to point out for my own needs. Thank you for your support, be assured that proposals, if any, including with regard to both the procedure and the deadlines, will be considered by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u193	Thank you, Mrs. Vasileva. Are there any lines? No. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm calling off the debate. We're lighting candles to have a quorum for voting. Voting regime for the first vote of the Draft Law amending the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the Environment, No 054-01-99, submitted by the MPs Ivelina Vassileva and a group of MPs on 23 October 2020. 90 MPs voted: 83, none, abstention 7. The bill was passed in the first vote. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u194	Dear Mr. Chairman, I propose the time limit for written proposals, according to art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, under the Law amending the Law on Environmental Protection, No 054-01-99, of 23 October 2020 to be reduced to three days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u195	Is there a reverse offer? I won't. I put to the vote the proposed procedural proposal to reduce the deadline for proposals between first and second readings under the Law amending the Law amendment and supplement to the Law on Environmental Protection to three days. 90 MPs voted: 84, against 5, abstention 1. The proposal to reduce the period between first and second readings of three days has been adopted. Moving on to: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions for the period 6 "November 12, 2020': A question was received from MP Krum Kostadinov Zarkov to Desislava Ahladova, Minister of Justice, on the policy of the government in the area of judicial reform and the implementation of the recommendations contained in the Report of the European Commission on the Rule of Law in Bulgaria. The response should be made in plenary on 20 November 2020. Written answers for service by: - Minister of Culture Mr. Boyl Banov on a question from the National Representative Daniela Daritkova; - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov on two issues from the National Representative Hristo Gazhev; - Minister of Justice Desislava Ahladova on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov to two questions from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Finance Kiril Ananiev on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov, accompanied by a disk; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov on a question from the National Representative Lalo Kirilov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Lalo Kirilov; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov to two questions from the National Representative Yavor Bojankov; - Minister of Interior Hristo Terziyski on a question from the National Representative Yavor Bojankov; - Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov to two questions from the National Representative Anna Slavova; - Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov on a question from the National Representative Smilyana Nieva; - Minister of Justice Desislava Ahladova on a question from the MPs Krasimir Yankov, Valeri Zablyanov, Nikolai Ivanov, Dimitar Stoyanov, Georgi Andreyev, Lalo Kirilov and Chavdar Velinov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on two questions from the MPs Tasco Ermenkov, Zhelyo Boychev and Anton Kutev; - Minister of Economy Lachezar Borisov on a question from the National Representative Nadia Klisurska; - Minister of Environment and Lead Emil Dimitrov on a question from the National Representative Nikolay Tishev; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova; - Minister of Environment and Lead Emil Dimitrov on a question from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Rumen Georgiev; - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov on a question from the MP Nikolay Tsonkov, Philip Popov and Kolyo Milev; - Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev on a question from the National Representative Ivan Chenchev; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva on a question from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Nikolay Penev; - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov on three issues from the National Representative Georgi Stoilov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the MPs Anton Kutev and Rosen Malinov; - Minister of Economy Lachezar Borisov on a question from the National Representative Dimitar Danchev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the MPs Georgi Svilenski, Manol Genov and Dimitar Danchev; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski; - Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov to two questions from the National Representative Anastas Popdimitrov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the MPs Zhelyo Boychev and Dimitar Georgiev; - Minister of Culture Boel Banov on a question from the National Representative Vasil Antonov; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Ahmed Ahmed Ahmedov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the MPs Ahmed Ahmed Ahmedov, Adlen Shefket and Errol Mehmed. We're moving on to parliamentary control. The first question is to the Minister of Finance Mr. Kiril Ananiev. The issue is from the National Representative Nikolay Tishev about the phased implementation of an integrated financial and information system for municipalities. Mr. Tishev, you have two minutes to present your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u196	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, by your outgoing letter of 14 October 2020, you inform the Ministry of Finance about the initiative for the gradual implementation of an Integrated Financial Information System for municipalities and related services and activities. In addition, you describe in detail that IFIS is the abbreviation of the integrated system, is an integrated solution of It must be implemented for 51 months, starting from 1 October 2020 to 31 December 2020. This is the first stage and will cover 28 municipalities. And the second stage is from 1 January next year until the end of 2021 and 120 municipalities will be covered there. In the letter you explicitly stated that the necessary funds to implement the contract will be provided by the state budget. In this regard, my questions to you are: why exactly the task defined by the Law on Electronic Management for System Integrator for System Integrating Service is burdened at the initiative of the Ministry of Finance with a costly new implementation, which currently solves private companies, at a much lower price; why has no procedure for selection under the Public Procurement Act under established transparent and clear rules and frameworks, after ERP is a widespread task that solves other companies in the country; what is the financial value of the above project for 2020 and respectively the funds for the first stage laid down by the Budget 2020 of the Republic of Bulgaria; and what is the value of the Project for 2020; what is the facilitation and functioning of accounting processes in the municipality concerned, after there are significant differences in municipalities? Does this mean the transfer by command through the non-market behaviour of the state of the business software used by those currently working in these municipalities? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u197	Thank you, Mr. Tishev. Mr. Secretary, you have three minutes to respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u198	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tishev, you ask me three questions and within the three minutes I will not be able to answer, but I will ask you for patience along with the two minutes in the back to get a full and, hopefully, professional answer. The agreement with the Ministry of Finance for a period of 51 months starting from 1 October 2020, the annual allocation for the implementation of the system by municipalities is as follows: as you mentioned, 2020. 30 municipalities, 2021 - 120 municipalities, 2022. " 112 municipalities', and 2023 3 municipalities, Sofia, Plovdiv and Varna, of course, and all their regions. The phased deployment and maintenance of the system in all municipalities is intended to be provided with the following services and activities. Firstly, the delivery of licences which will be carried out periodically every year. The indicative total number is 1651 licenses. Secondly, maintenance of the delivered licences. Third, the provision of secure, secure, reliable and maintained information and communication infrastructure to "Information Service" JSC, meeting the requirements of the Ordinance on minimum requirements for network and information security. And fourth, deployment and maintenance of the application software. The service covers deployment and training activities of employees of a municipality and those related to centralised maintenance. The information system has implemented the necessary technological and functional settings and developed interface solutions in the following functional modules: budget, financial accounting, fixed assets, material economy. The integrated financial and information system for municipalities has a wide range of standards and additional interface solutions for analysis and reporting of information, for import of relevant data in Exel, the form from the town halls and municipal institutions to the respective municipality. A specific interface has been developed to provide data from municipal systems for administration of local tax revenue and fees to module "Financial accounting." The expectations of the Ministry of Finance are by unifying the accounting processes in municipalities to eliminate the mixed application of the regulations in certain municipalities. In the long term, an equal quality will be achieved in introducing the preservation and integrity of information, as well as standardising the processes related to the management of accounting data, aggregation and consolidation at municipal, district and so on. This will result in timely provision of reliable and correct information to the institutions concerned and simplification of the processes involved. Centralized resource management, hardware, system and software will be ensured, such as maintaining, administering and carrying out technological and functional settings in accordance with the requirements of the regulations will be carried out by qualified experts of the System Integrator in the same way for municipalities. As long-term benefits for municipalities can be noted the creation of administrative capacity, having equal knowledge and skills and enriching them...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u199	Finish it, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u200	Let me finish the sentence, Mr. Chairman, and I'll continue after that. ...by communicating and sharing experience as well as dropping the need to provide, maintain and administer own hardware and software for municipalities in that area, which is in full compliance with the requirements for organisational measures for the protection of networks and information systems and related information.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u201	Thank you. You basically answered the third question, didn't you?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u202	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u203	Let's limit ourselves to the third question, Mr. Tishev, because there are rules. If you wanted to ask three questions, you could have done it as your champion of the day. Mr. Gokov, individual questions so that you can predict the time available for this question. Nine minutes are scheduled now. And you want three questions to get answers to all three. Next time, just formulate three separate questions, they will be laid down in the parliamentary control plan and you will get your answers. Here's a line for the third question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u204	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I will make a reply to the Minister about what I disagree with in his response. And what I don't agree with is my opinion, and you can't tell me what to ask him or not to. Mr. Minister, what Mr. Simeonov also said, in general, you answered only the last question, but in general the questions asked by me are not what is IFISO or what is it used for? That's the smaller problem. I didn't get the answer why exactly Information Service? Why, without passing a procedure under the Public Procurement Act? Is the project's financial value at stake this year? I don't recall there being such a thing in the update. Moreover, the municipalities and municipal administrations are local authorities of self-government and such decisions, which are taken in the Ministry of Finance and which force municipalities to accept them, in fact violate their independence and the opportunity to make their own decisions. Secondly, the government, by amending the Law on Electronic Governance, has practically made Information Service a monopoly in the construction of state information systems. But here we are talking about municipalities that are part of local self-government, and as we know, there is a division of authorities in Bulgaria, so there is no way in the administrative order of the municipalities in Bulgaria to have some system. Apart from this market, you are throwing out a huge number of small companies that are currently serving the Bulgarian municipalities, and I do not think they will do any worse than Information Service with this task. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u205	Thank you, Mr. Tishev. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u206	I will answer, of course, Mr. Tishev's next questions. The financial value of the Project for the fourth quarter of this year is 404 thousand. lv. The funds are provided within the framework of the expenditure on information and communication technologies approved for the Ministry of Finance for 2020, as well as in the medium-term budgetary forecast for the next three years. Regarding your question about the choice of contractor, I inform you that with the approved changes at the end of 2019 of the Law on Electronic Governance was created a new art. 7c, according to which system integration activities include the provision of construction, maintenance, development and monitoring services to the performance of information and communication systems used by administrative authorities and activities that ensure the implementation of those services. By virtue of § 45, para. 1 of the Transitional and Final Provisions to the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Electronic Management System Integration under Chapter 1.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The company is a public entity within the meaning of art. 5, para. 1, t. 14 of the Public Procurement Act relating to § 2, point 43 of the Additional provisions of the same law only in the case of the award of systemic integration activities listed in art. 7c of the Law on Electronic Governance. In accordance with the approved amendments to the Law on Electronic Governance, the Council of Ministers, by Decision No 727 of 5 December 2019, as amended by Decision of the Council of Ministers No 358 and Decision No 419 of 2020, has designated the administrative bodies, including the Ministry of Finance, which, in the performance of their functions related to the activities of system integration, are obliged to entrust the implementation of these activities to the System Integrator. The shareholders have exclusive rights to provide the relevant services under the Law on Electronic Governance. At the same time, the company is a public entity within the meaning of the Public Procurement Act and therefore the activities designated for award falling within the scope of art. 7c of the Law on Electronic Governance are excluded from the scope of the Law on Public Procurement under art. 13, para. 1, t. 14 of the same law. On the basis of the provisions cited above, a contract has been concluded with 7c of the Law on Electronic Governance, which undoubtedly includes the integrated financial and information system of municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u207	Thank you. Enjoy your work, Mr. Secretary. This is the first time a minister has come to attend a point that is not covered by his Ministry.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u208	All points are related to finances.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u209	We move on to the questions to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mrs. Petya Avramova. The first question is from the MPs Dora Jankova, Lyubomir Bonev and Teodora Halacheva on the National Assembly Decision of 13 December 2019 on the debate on asking the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova about the policy of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works to prevent the danger of water regime in certain settlements and the need to invest in the infrastructure in the water sector in order to improve the quality of the service offered to consumers and the financial instruments provided for this (promise, SG No. 100 from 2019) . Mrs. Yankova, you have two minutes to present your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u210	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Mr. Minister of Health! Ms. Avramova, not only the three MPs with colleague Bonev and Halacheva, but also the entire parliamentary group a year ago, we drew the attention of the National Assembly with concern about the problems that must be solved with waterlessness, investment, water quality, with the price. On 13 December 2019, we held a parliamentary debate on all these issues. Unfortunately, our concern then stands now. Barely the many promises for the holding, for the investments, for the large organization that will be made after, you see, a new law which, by decision of the Bulgarian Parliament, was to be submitted to parliament in May 2020. We are now almost at the end of November. We asked our question on October 15th and it was as if we stimulated the work of the employees of your ministry. On 26 October, the Law in question was for public discussion. I am deeply convinced that the Law will no longer untie your hands and resolve some of the issues facing the water sector. We also ask the question of correctness to the Bulgarian Parliament and to the parliamentary government of Bulgaria. There can be no decision made by the Bulgarian Parliament, six or seven months after that, to be ignored by the Bulgarian institutions. This shows an attitude towards the very functioning of the state. Secondly, I assume that you will give some answer, for us to worry about these problems do these problems have a solution and what does the Ministry do? We know that the Law will not solve it, it can only partially improve some things. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u211	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Madam Secretary, you have three minutes. I ask that all Members of Parliament who have asked questions be limited to the time provided for by the Rules, if they may be shorter, because we have many questions and many people will not be answered. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u212	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Iankova, Mr. Bonev, Mrs. Halacheva, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! The topic of the water sector is one of the important topics that is in the focus of both the government and the focus of the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria because the quality of the service is one of the fundamental human rights that we need to find a solution to. According to T. 1 of the decision of the National Assembly by 15 May of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works is entrusted with preparing and announcing for public discussion a bill on water and water supply to ensure the long-term solution of the problems in the sector, including the social tolerance of the cost of water services, the introduction of water aid, quality of services, the provision of additional and financial instruments to increase investment in the sector and increase control of their implementation. The Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works conducts state policy in the Water Supply and Sewerage sector and in this context has given priority to the drafting of the Water and Canal Bill. At present, the legislation concerning the Water and sewerage sector is complex, fragmented and regulated in a number of regulations, which has identified the need for its change in order to enable the development of the water sector and sustainability in providing water services in the changing economic and demographic situation in the country. In relation to the above in the beginning of 2019, an interdepartmental working group with broad representation from all stakeholders was formed with my order, and the main task of the working group was to develop a concept for a draft law at the heart of which to develop the texts of the regulatory act. The composition of the working group includes more than 50 representatives of different institutions and organizations, ministries, the Bulgarian Water Association, the Union of Water Operators, trade union organizations, the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. In accordance with this order in the autumn of 2019, the working group prepared a concept and laid down the main provisions to be laid down in the new law: the water infrastructure is public property, as well as currently; in an administrative area the water services to be provided to a water operator; to reduce the regulatory burden and to maintain the social tolerance of the cost of water services. In the performance of t. 1 of the decision of the National Assembly in accordance with the provisions of the current regulations are currently prepared the following documents: consultation document with the attached structure of the Law according to Annex 3 to art. 26 of the Ordinance; Draft report for a comprehensive preliminary assessment of the impact of the regulation; summary of the overall preliminary assessment of impact and draft law on water supply and sewerage. The public consultation procedure started in May 2020 with the publication of the consultation document and the structure of the bill. At present, the Water Supply and Sewerage Act has been published for public discussion. We get different opinions, recommendations, suggestions. It's a whole new law. I believe that with joint efforts we will arrange the legal framework so as to ensure sustainable development of the sector in the future.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u213	Thank you. A line? Here you go, Mr. Bonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u214	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable MPs! From your answer, Madam Minister, we understand that by May 15th this year the Law was not ready, which is a fact. At present, it is a Law which, at the date of the adoption of the National Assembly's Decision, was adopted with full unanimity in this Chamber with only one purpose: to regulate the deficiencies made in the last ten years in the water sector as quickly as possible and within a short time. In the end, we received a Law that was announced on the public consultation page. I will also allow myself to speak under the Law, because it is a fact and is vital. On the one hand, our proposed Law does not set foot on any analysis and on data on the development of water supply and sewerage, and there are two, as well as on the National Strategy for Water Resources Management. The Bill lacks any causal link and link between the institutions that are at stake. For the first time, the administrative form of the water holding company is created, one institution, loudly promoted, with 1 billion. lv. a budget which, at present, is clearly not functioning. There are regulations to be created, which must still be waited, and time immeasurably flies. I will address and address all Bulgarian citizens: one of the points in the Project is additional financial instruments. We very much hope that, when this law enters, it will be explained to the Bulgarian society that the introduction of three entirely new components to the price of water will be paid by every Bulgarian citizen. They are: supply of water to consumers; supply of water to other water operators and disposal of waste water. If this provides the 13 billion needed not to build the water sector but to revive the water sector, your Water Act simply leads you to drowning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u215	Thank you. Mrs. Minister's doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u216	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Bonev, I am ready to debate on the main ones enshrined in the new Water Act, but hardly parliamentary control is exactly the way we can do it. A few things I'd like to disprove from your claims. First, what is enshrined in the Water Act is also enshrined in the concepts of the Strategy adopted........................................... and for which BSP voted. The consolidation of the water supply in a separate territory, one water operator is embedded in this strategy. I would like to stress that the suggestions that are being made and listen to the Bulgarian citizens to increase the price of water, because inside the price the components are being redeployed and there is a new component is absolutely untrue. The cost of water is maintained. This is explicitly written in the Law, as within the framework of the social service. So that's what it was at the moment, which is 2.8 cube. m per person at 2,5 per cent of the average household income for different territories and different areas. The cost of water will keep its social tolerance as it is up to now. That there is a proposal in the Act for internal redistribution of components, and you know that so far they have been: supply of water, water removal, water purification, and therefore consumers pay for this part of the service they use. I am definitely repeating that raising the cost of water anywhere in the proposed law is not foreseen. There is no such text, there is a preservation of the social tolerability of the cost of water.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u217	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Change of guard.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u218	We continue with a question from the National Representative Kolyo Milev about the landslide in the area Cave on road II-53 to the village of Byala, Municipality of Sliven. You have the floor, Mr. Milev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u219	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister Avramova, Dear Minister Angelov, Dear colleagues! My question is about the landslide in the cave area on the road II-53 to the village of Byala, Sliven municipality. Dear Minister, regardless of the repeated promises and declared actions towards the eradication of the landslide in the area Cave on road II-53 to the village of Byala, Municipality of Sliven, including in your replies within the parliamentary control, the extremely serious, serious and dangerous condition of road II-53 in the village of Byala, town of Sliven is still in effect. My question to you, Minister, is at what stage is the solution to the problem of awarding and implementing the necessary repair activities of Republican route II-53 in the village of Byala, the town of Sliven in the area of the Cave, which has fallen due to the landslide processes and will the renovation be carried out soon? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u220	Thank you, Mr. Milev. Madam Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u221	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Milev! Locality Cave at km 707+200 on Republic road II-53 Elena is at km 107. On 13 July 2020, the Road Infrastructure Agency entered into a grant agreement under the Operational Programme "Environment" for the project "Prevention and countering the landslide processes of the Republican Road Network," Phase 2 "Spare" for the project. Five landslides for strengthening are included, one of which is the site of the construction of a landslide on route II-53 Elena. The total value of the project is 17 million. 815 thousand. £6. After a public contract was held to appoint a contractor for the construction of four sites, where position No 1 is the specific object specified by you. A decision on the choice of performer is to be published. The indicative value for strengthening the landslide is 1 million. Eight hundred and BGN 145. After a public contract for the designation of a contractor of the construction supervision, a contract with the first-rank participant is to be concluded. The indicative value of the construction supervision contract is 40,000. lv. The site has been granted a construction permit of 4 February 2020 and the strengthening activities are expected to start in the spring of 2021 with the opening of the construction season. At the moment, care is being taken and bituminous paste fills the cracks along the entire length and width of the asphalt to reach the required height. To ensure the passability of the road is placed filling of pressed material as it is lighter and does not burden the road construction. The route shall be run daily by specialists of Sliven District Road Management and action shall be taken to complete them when major subsidences are detected. The section prohibits the movement of more than 10 tonnes of motor vehicles, the required traffic signal B19 is placed. So at the beginning of 2021, we are fully prepared to begin the construction activities of the landslide you have designated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u222	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The line, Mr. Milev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u223	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the Parliament, honourable Ministers! Dear Minister, I thank you for your reply, but still this saga has been going on for three years and gradually with the alienation and with the procedure now several sites are included in the procurement. However, on behalf of the citizens of Sliven Municipality, I would ask you to have a closer impact on the procurement bodies, as this delay lasts a very long time. I believe that with greater control at last the implementation will be entrusted so that this landslide can be eradicated and, bearing in mind the winter season, we can expect that there will be no problems through it and what you said will be fulfilled with respect to the necessary requirements, and in the spring to begin the implementation of the site. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u224	Thank you. A hole? I won't. We continue with a question from the MPs Nikola Dinkov and Violeta Zheleva about the extremely severe emergency condition of the Republican road III-559 Polish town Mrs. Jeleva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u225	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mrs. Minister! The question of this Republican road III-559 Polish town "Topolovgrad " Ustrem from the branch for the monastery "St. The trinity up to the branch for the village of Ustrem has been repeatedly placed by the municipality of Topolovgrad and by my colleagues from previous national meetings, from the 42nd until now. The road is in a very bad, miserable state. The residents of Topolovgrad are deprived of access to the town of Stara Zagora, where most of the offices of state institutions are located, as well as the University Hospital for qualified medical care. On this road every day many workers travel to the enterprises in the region.................... Maritsa East.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The difficulties both teachers and students are experiencing on this road, reaching the municipality, not to mention that it is a prerequisite for many road accidents. The fact that there have been several stops in the fields in several places to pass the travelers on this road in quotes is also clear evidence of the poor condition of the road. There are also many written and oral promises on this issue from both the MRB and the relevant institutions. I will not go into the details of the communication that you and I have had with you, whether here, from the platform of parliamentary control, whether with written questions, because the saga is very long. She's about 14 years old. Once again, there is no promise fulfilled and again people are in a situation where they feel dissatisfied with the work you have done. Because perhaps once again we will hear a clerical mine response, but for the people this time it is the right to the right of the right of the right to an accessible education, to work and health care. On 5 November 2020, the Municipal Council in Topolovgrad adopted a declaration on this issue. I want to read you the last sentence of this declaration and then I will give it to you: in Bulgaria we are beaten.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u226	Thank you, Mrs. Jeleva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u227	But in Bulgaria they can kill the faith of people from a small border municipality...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u228	Can you ask yourself a question?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u229	...with a multi-year inactivity of the institutions on which the solution of the problem depends.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u230	Thank you. Madam Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u231	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mrs. Jeleva, Dear Mr. Dinkov! Ms. Zheleva, despite the strong words you have said, I am now going to surprise you that the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the Road Infrastructure Agency is fulfilling their promises. In 2019, in my reply, it is written that the Road Infrastructure Agency will seek opportunities to provide funds for the construction of the site. My answer to date is as follows. The rehabilitation of 23.4 km from the road III-559 is included in the project Lot 34 road III-559 Polish townets.. Topolovgrad "Ustrem from km 4+ 500 to km 23+520 and from km 35................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... At the end of 2019, the Monitoring Committee of the Operational Programme "Regions in Growth" transferred financial resources under Priority Axis 7 - Regional roads and thus provided partial funds for the realization of the site. In October 2020, a grant agreement was concluded for the project and the grant financing part was 1 million. 405 thousand. BGN and the rest of which amounted to 18 million. 689 thousand. £700. is the own financial resource provided by the Agency. The procedure for the selection of construction supervision has been completed and the procedure for the selection of contractor of construction is in the process of assessing the technical proposals received. The repair activities are planned to start in 2021, with the rehabilitation of the road section including the following activities: restoration of the pavement and road body in areas with insufficient wearability, laying of basic and countervailable asphalt layers, restoration of existing and implementation of new drainage of road lanes, restoration of banquets, rehabilitation of two large structures and bridge of the river Great River at km 16, replacement of the main accessories of the road, restrictive systems, rails, curbs, leading stripes and making a new horizontal marking, vertical signalling to ensure road safety. With the rehabilitation of the two sections of road III-559, there will be a homogeneity of the route and a safe and comfortable passage will be ensured, and we are aware that this section is an important link for the settlements in Haskovo region with the second-class road II-55 and through it to the Maritsa Motorway, first-class road I-5, Stara Zagora railway station and Radnevo railway station. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u232	Thank you, dear Minister. The line, Mr. Dinkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u233	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister! This issue has been repeatedly posed by the MPs in the past 10 years and there is no solution, but the most important issue, which is that over 30% of those working in Topolovgrad Municipality are employed in the Minnie Maritsa East and this is the only way they go to work. The colleague Zheleva said many other things about the role of this road for the municipality of Topolovgrad, but here we have to take into account something that over the years does not happen. Firstly, the most discussed issue in this National Assembly was the demographic crisis, and when we talk about a demographic crisis, one of the important indicators is road connectivity. So far, there is no program that makes it clear which path will find its solution for rehabilitation. In Haskovo region, 67% of the road network is in poor and very bad condition, and this time it falls into those 368 km, which are in very bad condition. There is a targeted program for the development of Northwestern, mountain and semi-mountain regions, Strandzha Sakar. There is not 10% of what is at stake to be implemented for the border municipalities and for Strandzha Sakar, how do we want the demographic crisis in the country to be solved? 2019 even had an order for the selection of a chief contractor and due to shortcomings in the documentation this did not take place. Now you say: the road will be started in 2021. I hope so. I hope, though, at this rate that we are trying to resolve matters, I seriously doubt it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u234	Thank you, Mr. Dinkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u235	I hope, this time, these people will really be satisfied with what you said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u236	A hole, Madam Secretary?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u237	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Dinkov, the good news for the people that you represent is that the Road Infrastructure Agency has done its job and has provided financial resources to be rehabilitated this time. It is not the problem in the deferred order, as I have answered in 2019, the problem is financial. The funds are provided, the contract is concluded so that after the selection of contractor 2021 the rehabilitation of this road section will begin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u238	Thank you. The next question is from the National Representative Nikolai Ivanov on investment in the road infrastructure area of Vratsa. You have the floor, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u239	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dear Minister, Dear Minister! Dear Minister, it is undeniable that the state of infrastructure of a country has a serious impact on its economic development and is undoubtedly an instrument for attracting foreign investment. The same is in force for the different regions and regions of the country. In Vratsa region, as part of the least developed region, it is even more important. For everyone living in the area of my fellow citizens, these investments will also have great importance for overcoming differences and standard of living in other regions. In this regard, it is important for me to ask you the following questions, of course, to get answers: what are the current road projects in the territory of Vratsa; what are the deadlines for their completion; what are the projects for my electoral area also provided for in the budget for 2021? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u240	Thank you. Madam Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u241	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ivanov, the priorities set in the government's management programme for rehabilitation, maintenance and construction of the Republican road network are aimed at improving the connectivity between regions and improving the standard of living. It is therefore that investments in infrastructure should be well-considered, clearly read and, above all, in the direction of ensuring safe and safe passage through every single region in the country. We are trying to improve the technical characteristics of the Republican road network with Vratsa region, using both budget funds and European co-financing. On the territory of the Vratsa District Road Infrastructure Agency. According to the survey of the District Road Management, in good condition are 182 km, average of 134 km, and in bad.. 325 km. On the territory of Vratsa district is implemented the construction and modernization of road I-1 E79, Vidin Botevgrad, currently 62.6 km from the road Vidin Botevgrad. Last year, work began in one of the most complex sections of Mezdra.. Botevgrad, 33 km divided into two lots. Within the range of Lot 2 from km 161 to km 174 is the route between Mezdra and Lyutidol on the territory of Vratsa region. The road will have two lanes of movement in the direction, with gauge D 20, with the track for the most part following the existing path, which will be extended to the new gauge and the current route will be mainly repaired and reconstructed. Two tunnels with two pipes, with 160 m and 260 m lengths, will be built on the tour of the village of Lyutidol. There will be the implementation of the overall project from Vidin to Botevgrad. Repairs of the following repairs are carried out under an ongoing repair and maintenance programme in Vratsa region: - Preventive repair of road III-103 Mezdra "Roman," from km 2 to km 27, 25 km. The activities are divided into three sections: - the first 4 km-long section started the activities in 2019 and ended in April 2020. The total value of the site is 3 million. 685 thousand. 378 BGN, with horizontal marking and mounting of signs; - Road III-103 on the working area from km 7 to km 16. The renovation began in June, it is in the process of implementation. The implementation of drainage trenches, concrete regulations, revision of existing waterfalls and others is forthcoming. The object is worth 5 million. 056 thousand. BGN 777. The repair is planned to be completed in 2021 and horizontal markings, road signs and restrictive systems will then be applied; - Road III-103 in a working area from km 16 to km 27. Repair activities started in April 2020 and ended October. The activities are worth just over 9 million. lv. A horizontal marking, road signs and restraint systems are to be applied; - Road III-133 Byala Slatina Construction activities ended in October 2020. A horizontal marking, vertical signalling and restrictive systems are to be applied. It's worth 4 million. 667 thousand. BGN 368.• • • • • • • - Preventive maintenance of road III-306 border area Pleven "Selanovtsi," 7.348 km. The renovation began in July 2020. The activities ended in October. Four million were secured. 382 thousand. 522 BGN, with finishing works on horizontal markings and road signs ahead. In 2021, the Agency will also entrust the implementation of the section from Oryahovo to Selanovtsi.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u242	Thank you, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u243	I'll finish up in my ass, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u244	A line, Mr. Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u245	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, thank you for your reply. I will probably get the remaining information in your backpack, because what is to come for 2021, which is also being carried out at the moment, is causing very serious interest from my fellow citizens. Undoubtedly the implementation of this large-scale investment project for the road Vidin is of great importance for the region. Opening this door to the Northwest and specifically to the region of Vratsa will certainly be a serious impetus for socio-economic development. In this regard, I think it is reasonable, building this important path, to plan in the coming years with the necessary funds for the next at least two or three budgets, but including 2021, of rehabilitation, reconstruction and solving some serious road problems, which will be of great importance when taking on the subsequent more serious traffic in the region. I want to address three problems here. Firstly, of course, the alternative routes that are currently being used by all of us drivers of motor vehicles are extremely difficult and therefore the construction within the first lot of Mezdra But along with that, I think, and according to many of my fellow citizens, in the future time, and in the near future, rehabilitation should be carried out on road II-15 Vratsa - Oryahovo, because this is also a very important transport axis north of road I-1. Recently, the signals from those living in the village of Devene have increased. The municipality of Vratsa, where the road II-13 Montana is passing, also an extremely important regional road from the Republican road network...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u246	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Finish your thought, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u247	...where the problem of designing and building a bypass long ago to take the movement out of the population, a movement that creates extremely severe problems for those living there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u248	Dear Minister, you have the floor for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u249	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ivanov, I will briefly complete my answer. With road 1304 Byala Slatina "Turnak," Pleven border, which was renovated in 2020, road III-1622 Milanovo In October began preventive repair of three more sections of the Republican road network: - Road Gorgeous Roman, 3,308; - road III-3082 Gorgeousness - Batultsi - Zlatna Panega, and - Road III-1004 Vratsa - Pavolche - Chelopek. All three roads are connected to provide bypass routes in the execution of the reconstruction of E 79. I would like to point out that 2021 will also strengthen six landslides of a Republican road network on the territory of Vratsa region. I'm not going to list them because I'm not going to have enough time, and I'm also going to be preparing project documentation for sites that will be looking for funding in the coming years. These are: road III-161 Reberkovo Project documentation is being prepared, and in connection with your asking about the surroundings of the village of Devene, yes, this issue has been for a long time to resolve. The inhabitants of the village of Devene expressed their dissatisfaction about crossing traffic. I can make a commitment and take it before you, 2021, to declare a public procurement and to assign design for the route in question on the road. There is an old project, which has been since 2003 and there is no way to use the changing regulations and requirements for design and construction of roads in Bulgaria. So 2021 we will assign the design and then in the coming years we will be looking for an opportunity to implement the bypass route. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u250	Thank you, dear Minister. Thank you for participating in parliamentary control today. We continue with a question to Mrs. Denitsa Sacheva, Minister of Labour and Social Policy. She will answer a question from the MPs Veska Nencheva and Violeta Zheleva about the monthly targeted aid for families with children up to 14 years of age in the event of a declared emergency or an emergency epidemic situation. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Jeleva. Ms. Nencheva, are you asking the question? Okay, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u251	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mrs. Sacheva! Our society is already in the complex situation of the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. Bulgarian parents continue to have unresolved problems about helping families in this situation. Clearly, there are no definite health rules that guarantee normal social relations and calmness, but the government is not trying to compensate with measures that have some adequacy so as not to create mass psychosis and uncertainty in people. As MPs, we have numerous alarming signals from the parents of the children until the age of 14. These signals have put us in a difficult situation not to be able to give a satisfying answer because there is simply no such answer. Immediately after the beginning of the school year they had to quarantine several classes in schools because of a sick student or teacher. Many children and students by the age of 14 had to stay in their homes, but without parental presence, because working parents could not be with them due to the exhaustion of their annual paid leave during the first wave of COVID-19. In fact, there is a possibility, but the dilemma is equally unfair to stay home and lose their jobs or continue to work and leave their children alone. At the beginning of the emergency environment, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy announced a measure under which parents could receive 375 BGN once. under several conditions. How effective was this measure? How many parents took advantage of it and was the information campaign effective enough? All this led to the objective analysis of support for families in the second wave of COVID-19. At this time, how many families with children up to the age of 14 have been helped with monthly targeted assistance in a declared emergency or declared an emergency epidemic situation?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u252	Thank you, Ms. Nencheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u253	Just one second! Is the Ministry planning to change the conditions for this targeted aid or other new forms of support? What information campaign does the Ministry plan to reach the support of more Bulgarian parents? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u254	Thank you. Madam Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u255	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Ms. Nencheva, with Order No 218 of 17 August 2020 In force from 1 September this year, to supplement the Rules for Implementation of the Law on Social Aid in relation to the created complex situation and as a result of the pandemic was created art. 16b, which regulates the conditions for granting a new type of monthly targeted aid intended for parents of children up to 14 years of age who contribute to the insurance system and in the implementation of the statutory commitments laid down in the Child Protection Act, must remain at home to care for their children, as they cannot carry out remote work and cannot enjoy paid leave. This right also extends to foster families. The acceptance of applications shall start on 1 September 2020 and comply with the conditions laid down. Until 12 November of this year, including in the Directorates of Social Assistance and Social Assistance, a total of 252 applications for monthly targeted aid in cases of declared emergency or declared exceptional epidemic situation for families with children up to 14 years of age have been accepted according to art. 16b of the Rules of Application of the Social Aid Act. 49 orders were issued for the granting of the aid and 113 orders refused to grant it. In an analysis of the given refusals, the majority is found to be on the ground that the child is not trained synchronously from a distance in an electronic environment or that the average monthly income of a family member for the month preceding the submission of the application declaration is higher than the minimum wage. I would like to point out that most of the parents who currently have to look after their children because of quarantine or because of illness are taking sick leave. The disposable aid measure of BGN 375. has reached 3,700 families. In relation to the issued orders for refusal of applications, we have reviewed all the regulatory requirements related to the granting of this aid, and given the extremely adverse trends for the development of the pandemic in Bulgaria, we intend to propose an amendment and an addition to the targeted aid regulated by these rules. One of our proposals, which we hope to submit to the Council of Ministers within a maximum of one week, is to increase the average monthly income of a family member to 150% of the minimum wage. Currently, this number is the minimum wage of BGN 610 and we will propose this monthly income to be BGN 915. For a more accurate assessment of the real needs, we provide that when granting the aid, account should not be taken of the average monthly income of a family member for the previous month, but the income for the month in which restrictions are introduced in relation to the emergency situation or the emergency epidemic situation in the school or children's institution. We believe that this will extend the scope of families, and the requirement for students' training covers all legally foreseen forms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u256	Thank you, too. The line is Mrs. Jeleva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u257	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, one of the questions that has been asked to you is: how effective was the first measure proposed for working parents when they have to watch their children at home, and this is the help of 375 leva, which was a one-off in the first wave of the coronepidemia? I'm saying this because there was no such analysis, but I can give you a very simple example. The latest figures that we know about from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy page are that approval has been given to 3727 applications to parents, or nearly 1 million. 400,000. lv. is the aid they have received as financial resources. Let me just say that you said that 20 million will be allocated to this measure, and up to 20 million more. Yes, there is enough money to ensure this measure, but they do not actually reach people. The second one that was proposed is by the same criteria. There was an income criterion and again you announced a large amount of 73 million for the next and seven million by the end of the year. I'm sure that this time the seven million won't be used. What's really going on? That is why I said that there should be an analysis when you see that a measure, a targeted aid does not reach a wider range of people, and there is financial resources at this point, and it is appropriate to think initially about these criteria, and not now, when the pandemic has already started, that is, in the process of moving, to change these rules. The other issue, which is very important, is the information campaign. There is no known and there is confusion in those people who have help, whether they can participate at all or not. For those income criteria that are laid down in the............................................................................................. the parents do not know. In fact, that's why there are few applications, and you're saying that up to now there are only 252, approved 49...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u258	Thank you, dear Mrs. Jeleva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u259	...and even less is the percentage of the paid only 20%. And finally, it's Good Day. We conclude with the good news that you have presented that the scope of this aid will yet expand. I also very much hope that if it is seen that there is no way to reach people, to really think about other forms that can help Bulgarian working parents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u260	Thank you, too. A hole, Madam Secretary? Thank you for participating in parliamentary control today. We continue with a question to Mr. Krasimir Valchev, Minister of Education and Science, who will answer the question of MPs Kristina Sidorova and Teodora Halacheva on the effectiveness of measures and actions to provide quality food in schools. Who's gonna ask the question? Here you are, Mrs. Halacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u261	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Healthy eating of the students is achieved by providing complete and varied food size daily consumption of vegetables and fruits, sufficient intake of milk and dairy products, protein-rich products, increasing consumption of whole grains, limiting consumption of fat, sugar and salt. This is recorded in Ordinance No 37 of 21 July 2009 of the Ministry of Health. The findings of the control bodies and the parents' signals, especially in recent months, show that the requirements laid down in the Ordinance referred to by me are often not complied with. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, unhealthy eating is one of the serious problems of modern society.. especially with regard to young Bulgarian children, but feeding children is not just in the adoption of the substances listed in the Ordinance, but it is a guarantee for both health and care for them. Therefore, our question to you is about the Ministry's actions to provide quality food in Bulgarian schools, namely: Minister, when will Bulgarian children start receiving such food? I hope you will not interpret our question as opposition rage, but rather as concern for every Bulgarian child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u262	Thank you. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u263	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Halacheva, dear Mrs. Sidorova, I do not in any way interpret it as opposition rage. On the contrary, I myself, not only as a minister, but as a parent, am concerned about the healthy eating of my children. I think this is an extremely important subject that we need to put to discussion periodically. That's what we're doing right now. We are forming a working group once again, after two years ago, we made some changes, to reconsider the requirements, the so-called recipes. The quality of food in schools and kindergartens is a function of several things: the first is the requirements, the second is the control, the third is the way in which contracts are concluded, the way in which contracts are negotiated, and the fourth is, of course, the means if we want quality food and the means for it must be more. However, when we talk about educational institutions, a very important function is also the educational one. Schools and kindergartens should not only provide quality food, but also educate children and students in a healthy diet and healthy lifestyle. Two are the main types of food we have. One is lunch, the other is snacks. When we talk about snacks, a change in the regulation was made and it allows schools to decide whether breakfast should be basic or auxiliary, supportive. One part of the children go to school for breakfast and then it is better to be supportive, while others rely on the snacks provided in schools. As you mentioned, the requirements of Regulation No 37 on the healthy eating of students and Regulation No 6 on healthy eating of children aged 3 to 7 years are respected. Both regulations belong to the Minister of Health. In addition to the specific requirements for the safety and quality of food offered in kindergartens and school chairs, Regulations No 9 of 2011 issued by the Minister of Agriculture and Food were also laid down. With the working group that I mentioned to you, we will review once again the so-called recipes, the requirements, so that we can further strengthen the element of healthy eating. The emphasis, as so far, has been placed on balanced nutrition through exemplary daily meals, reflecting the specifics of the child's development, the needs of protein, carbohydrates and fats for each given age, as well as the energy value of the food offered. The second important element I mentioned is control. In terms of control, what I realized as a minister two years ago is that there is a certain lack of coordination between the institutions and the transfer of the ball. We, as the Ministry of Education and Science through regional governments, can hold responsible directors, we can verify documentaries about the procedures principals of schools, but we are not competent enough to check food requirements, safety and so on. In this regard, we have created with the Minister of Agriculture and Food and with the Minister of Health such a mechanism for joint work. We made an agreement. Each case that enters the Ministry shall be forwarded by activating this mechanism and checking for each particular case.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u264	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u265	If I could just get it over with? I myself, when I see a report, also self-serving and assigning that kind of control. Of course, the role of municipalities is also important because somewhere municipalities are contracting entities, somewhere in Sofia are regional mayors, and the directors of kindergartens are subordinate to the mayors of municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u266	Thank you. A line? Mrs. Sidorova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u267	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable ministers! Thank you for your reply, although I will not hide my frustration, because two years ago, again, a question to you about the quality of food in kindergartens and schools, you said, as you mentioned earlier in the reply that you would create a working group that would develop a control mechanism and better quality of food. Every year, however, since September 15th, we are flooded with pictures of poor food. I sincerely hope that this new working group, which is expected to work very soon, will really strengthen control and will make sure that Bulgarian children receive quality food, because you know very well that a large part of the children, especially in small settlements, especially in very poor families, the only food they receive is at school. We're not talking about ethnic kids or anything. You must understand that our children cannot eat wieners of dubious quality or pink salami sandwiches. We've looked into cases where children get something that even with an apology, the animals won't eat it. The efforts of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, of the Food Agency, of the RGIs must be really focused on the cases of poor products, of poor food to be limited and to be units, and not as at present are a large part of the signals that are seen and of the products that our children receive. What is the signal system for poor food? A form shall be completed on the website of the Food Safety Agency. Or health inspection again forms and so on. Why do so many institutions have to be responsible for the quality of food and in the end it has to be poor? My appeal to you is to coordinate these things and really very soon to be made workable....................... and an effective mechanism............................................................ Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u268	Thank you. Mr. Minister, the doppelganger? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u269	Thank you. I would call you to signal to us. This mechanism we created, we activated in the Ministry. We have a signed agreement on the basis of which the Regional Health Inspection, the Regional Directorate of the Food Agency, formed a rapid team and is being inspected. Yeah, we have cases, but I'm not inclined to say that the problem is necessarily systemic. I'm telling you again, we've responded to every single signal. In the system we have nearly 2,000 kindergartens, 1800 schools that train at an initial and basic stage where lunch meals and students' snacks are financed. So I expect specific signals from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u270	Thank you, dear Minister. Thank you for participating in parliamentary control today. We are continuing with questions to Mr. Kostadin Angelov, Minister of Health. He'll answer four questions. The first question is from the National Representative Kolyo Milev on specialized hospital for active treatment of pulmonary diseases. You have the floor, Mr. Milev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u271	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Minister! My question is to Minister Angelov regarding the problems with the liquidation of a specialized hospital for active treatment of pulmonary diseases in the city. Sliven. Dear Minister, in relation to the outstanding liquidation and the need to resolve the case with the building fund and the terrain around it, please answer the question when will the problem of winding up and solving the problems of rebuilding the building fund and the area around it be resolved and the conclusion of this saga that has been going on for more than ten years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u272	Thank you, Mr. Milev. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u273	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Milev, the Ministry of Health took action to change and choose a new liquidator of the Specialized Hospital for active treatment of pulmonary diseases (in liquidation) in order to accelerate and successfully complete the liquidation process. The new liquidator was entered on the company's account in the Commercial Register on 29 January 2020. The hospital's in liquidation. It is the owner of 38 buildings located in a property with identifier 6738.530.35. There are actions by Sliven Municipality to investigate and issue regulations for buildings, as they are in poor condition due to the lack of funds in the company to manage them and because the liquidation process continues in a significant period. Actions are also prescribed to preserve the main hospital building, which has the status of real cultural value. Significant funds are needed to rebuild and strengthen the building. The building is owned by the medical establishment and the Ministry of Health does not provide targeted capital funds within the meaning of art. 100 of the Law on Hospitals of Companies, which do not carry out medical activities. For this reason, it remains possible for the company to order itself with the main hospital building through the eligible forms of transfer of ownership to another entity. The same is a cultural value of local importance and its maintenance as such is not in the capacity of the medical establishment which is in liquidation procedure and does not have cash. According to information from the liquidator of the company, there is a requested investment interest in this building. It is expected that the necessary action will be taken to implement the relevant legal procedure. The area on which the buildings of the medical establishment are located is not owned by the company but is state owned and managed by the district governor of Sliven. The latter has taken action to develop a project to amend the detailed planning plan. The regulation plan for the division of the property, the establishment of a larger number of regulated land estates and the change of their purpose by the hospital complex in a more general order allowing public service activities and housing. During the inspection by RZI, Sliven, a number of pits of unknown shape, construction and materials used for their construction have been found to be present in the yard adjacent to the hospital's territory, where hazardous waste has been buried in the past. In this regard, an expert assessment of the terrain status and an assessment of the risk to humans and the environment in carrying out activities on the specified terrain is required prior to the initiation of a procedure for amending the existing detailed planning plan. At the request of the Ministry of Health, an opinion has been issued by the National Reference Laboratory "Especially hazardous viral infections" at the National Centre for Infectious and Parasitic Diseases, which will be informed of the relevant officials and will be taken into account when forming the opinion of the Minister of Health under art. 134, para. 9 in relation to Art. 39, para. 3 of the Law on Structure of the Area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u274	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The line, Mr. Milev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u275	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, I thank you for your detailed answer, but this saga is still going on since 2010 and for ten years we cannot liquidate a hospital. I see problems are increasing every day. The third Minister of Health can no longer solve this problem and I, on behalf of the citizens of the city. Sliven, I ask you to intervene more closely in the resolution of the matter, as there will not only need to build separate planning plans, but, as you can see, other ministries are involved in public hazardous waste which should be liquidated anyway. I believe that you, addressing this issue, will resolve it at least by the end of your term of office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u276	Thank you, Mr. Milev. A hole, Mr. Secretary? I won't. The next question is from the National Representative Evgeni Budinov on two national programmes for prevention and control of HIV and sexually transmitted infections and on prevention and control of tuberculosis in the Republic of Bulgaria. You have the floor, Mr. Budinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u277	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! As an actor, I have the honour and pleasure of participating in perhaps the most rating Bulgarian film, namely "Steal Life." There I play an HIV positive doctor who's bisexual, but he's infected by a patient. With us actors, sometimes it is so that the cause of our heroes becomes our cause, and what we play touches us more than our own personal lives. I think that on the subject of HIV the positive should be spoken more, it is taboo and around it there is a public stigma and a lot of prejudices that need to be cleaned up a little bit. I'd like to say a lot more, but time is limited, so I'm moving on to the question. At the end of the year the two national programmes for prevention and control of HIV and sexually transmitted infections and for prevention and control of tuberculosis in the Republic of Bulgaria from 2017 to 2020. Without existing national programmes, practically the actions of the Ministry of Health are blocked in terms of diagnosis of the two diseases, monitoring of the treatment carried out, as well as the implementation of activities for prevention and control of HIV and tuberculosis. In this regard, I would like to ask you the following questions: when will the new national HIV and Tuberculosis programmes for the period 2021 be adopted? What will be their main priorities and how will they be secured in budget 2021? When will there be activities in the country's largest areas of Sofia-city, Plovdiv, Varna and Burgas in prevention and control of HIV among the most prioritized target groups and how will they be secured? The implementation of the activities in question ends in the period June of July 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u278	Thank you, Mr. Budinov. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u279	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Budinov, on the first question you asked, an interdepartmental working group was formed by order of the Minister of Health on 16 October to prepare a draft National Programme for Prevention and Control of HIV and sexually transmitted infections in the Republic of Bulgaria for the period from 2021 to 2025. The draft budget of the Ministry of Health for 2021 provides for 3 million. 163 thousand. lv. The same funds are provided in Priority 12 "Health and Sports" in the National Development Program of Bulgaria 2030. The main goal of the new National Programme for Prevention and Control of HIV/AIDS is the retention of low prevalence of HIV infection in Bulgaria. The incidence of newly registered cases with HIV infection of 100 000 people in the European Union and the European Economic Area in 2018 is 5.1, for Bulgaria the indicator is 4.4. That is, our country has a lower prevalence of HIV among the countries of the European Union and the European Economic Area. By order of the Minister of Health of 16 October 2020, an Interdepartmental Working Group was formed to draft a new National Programme for the Prevention and Control of Tuberculosis in the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2021. The draft budget of the Ministry of Health for 2021 provided 3 million. 119,000. lv. The same funds are provided for in Priority 12 "Health and Sports" in the National Development Program of Bulgaria 2030. The main priority of the new National Programme for the Prevention and Control of Tuberculosis will be to reduce tuberculosis incidence in the country and reach the EU average. In Bulgaria, there is a persistent trend to reduce tuberculosis incidence from 38.5 to 100 000 population in 2008 to 18.4 to 100 000 population in 2019. According to the orders cited, the deadline for the preparation of the two programmes is 28 February 2021. Their adoption will ensure sustainability of the results achieved in the fight against these diseases in the country, and there will be no interruption in providing free diagnostics and treatment for patients with HIV and tuberculosis, as the existing contracts and the procedures launched in 2020 will satisfy the needs of diagnostic supplies until the procedures are carried out in 2021. On the second question, with the order of the Minister of Health a working group has been established for the preparation of technical documentation for public procurement with the subject of the selection of contractors of activities for prevention of HIV and sexually transmitted infections among the risk groups in connection with the implementation of the National Programme for Prevention and Control of HIV/AIDS in the Republic of Bulgaria for 2020 and the scope of the public procurement will include risk groups for the districts of Sofia-City, Varna, Plovdiv and Burgas. The procedure is at 854 thousand. £900. There is currently a procedure of performers of activities prevention of HIV and sexually transmitted infections among the risk groups for 22 districts of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u280	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The line, Mr. Budinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u281	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, thank you, I am pleased and pleased with your response. I'm going to use the time to give information that's important to society, to HIV positives. It is very important that this virus is detected in time and as early as possible. In Bulgaria there are places where people can be explored for free. It is important for the next stage to receive psychological help and realize that it is immediately nice to start therapy and fight because many of these people are ashamed of their illness and disappear and hide for two or three years, and that is fatal sometimes for their lives. There are people who can't take it mentally and even go to suicides. The moment of therapy and treatment is very important. Fortunately medicine in the last five, six, seven years has been very advanced and after six months of therapy usually HIV positive with only one or two pills can reach such a small viral load that it almost disappears and these people are really safe for others. They can even have sex with their sexual partners without infecting them, they can have children who are HIV negative and are completely healthy people, they can live with this virus until they are 80 years old, which is to a deep old age. However, it is very important that these people can be examined every six months and receive psychological support and information about their illness. The treatment of these people in Bulgaria, thank God, is absolutely free. I think we should talk more about this in society, not be afraid of these people, because that can happen to anyone. Thank you for your attention. Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u282	Thank you, Mr. Budinov. A hole, Mr. Secretary? I won't. The next question is from the National Representative Georgi Mihailov on the transfer of online training to some of the schools. You have the floor to ask the question, Mr. Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u283	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Professor Angelov, honourable colleagues! I'm sorry our meeting yesterday was so fleeting. I have listened carefully to your information and some of it is related to this issue, which has been delayed, unfortunately, for reasons beyond your control and I have caused three weeks, but it has become even more up-to-date. My question to you is, you know him well, along with other colleagues from the Council of Ministers, to answer us not only what was the reason for interrupting high school classes, but also what is your attitude to the problem now? I listened to your explanations yesterday, and I hope you don't repeat them again, but consider them with the particular hot discussion that is taking place at the moment in society, and we are witnessing it every day. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u284	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Mr. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u285	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Mihailov, I will answer your question in the way you asked it, as it was formulated by me. In relation to the declared exceptional epidemic situation with my orders, temporary anti-epidemic measures have been introduced on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria concerning general anti-epidemic measures and a temporary ban on the entry into the territory of the country, restrictive measures in respect of various educational, sports, scientific and cultural activities, measures related to the accumulation of people and others, while changing the epidemiological situation with the proposal of the Chief State Health Inspector, the measures introduced may be supplemented or changed with a view to the management of the epidemic spread of COVID-19, the protection of the health of the population and minimalisation of the ills of the crisis. At the date of issue of my order of 27 October, with which attendance studies for high school students are suspended from 29 October to 12 November, the epidemic situation related to COVID-19 in Bulgaria is characterized by constantly increasing indicators of epidemic prevalence, including 14-day morbidity, which at national level, in most districts of the country exceeds 120 per cent of the population of hospitalized, including patients requiring intensive treatment, the number of people who died from COVID-19 and others, and this trend is observed at present. The development of the epidemic situation in Bulgaria shows that there is a significant escalation in the intensity of epidemic spread, but the most affected by the new coronavirus are young and active adults, with a registered rise in the rate of In view of the above and available scientific data, a specific measure to interrupt the mechanism of transmission of infection has been introduced in children, limiting the possibility of subsequent contamination of contact persons in pedagogical and non-pedagogical staff, in a family environment and other related disease and severe course in adults with accompanying chronic diseases over 60 years of age. The measure aims at slowing down the development and intensity of the pandemic and the associated negative consequences for public health and life. I draw attention to the fact that the cessation of the school learning process is a measure that has been applied to the country so far in order to control infections with epidemic potential, air-dropping, such as seasonal flu. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 105, para. 6 of the Law on pre-school and school education is provided when, due to exceptional circumstances, the attendance process in the school is suspended, the days shall be study days if conditions are created for students to study from a distance in an electronic environment. Other restrictive measures have also been introduced in parallel with regard to the collection of people and keeping a physical distance. The provision for the mandatory wearing of masks indoors and outdoors remains in force. In order to implement the anti-epidemic measures, an order has been established to monitor compliance with them, as determined by my orders, with which all competent departments, municipalities and ministries should take part.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u286	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The line, Mr. Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u287	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Professor Angelov, honourable colleagues! I would first like to tell you that what you have quoted in relation to the anti-epidemic measures that have taken place in the past, the so-called influenza vacations that you mentioned, are related to proven active and dangerous for this part of the infection population. In the current infection, I took the liberty of quoting you and to the public several times, from a very detailed study of the French epidemic association, and it appears that these particular groups of the population are suffering, which you said a little while ago quite successfully, without almost any symptoms, asymptomatic. My question has been related to this, and I would like to ask you again carefully to target your anti-epidemic policy, because in an open regime of movement of the population and working institutions, when moving all citizens who are associated with working functions in society, the exclusion of students in one or another percentage is not in any way visible from the policy of the major countries in the world who opened their schools. You mentioned that Bulgaria did this spring. Then again, I think the big countries returned their children to school, and you remember Gutherish's warning that, with such a attitude to the educational process, we create conditions for an educational disaster. I don't want to put on your shoulders the responsibility of overall policy. This is a very complicated question, and you know it very well. It is a matter of coordination at the level of the state, but it must be resolved in the maximum interest of not creating prerequisites, as we see at the moment, from especially the last 48 hours, with the many reports on national televisions, in the discussions that are being formed both in the public spheres and at discussion, such as social networks. Do not create in any way the idea that this is a group that is the favorite of every Bulgarian family, these are Bulgarian children, whether they are...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u288	Thank you, Mr. Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u289	I'll be done. The subject is important, Mr. Chairman. Maybe you could give me a minute to finish. And to make the most accurate, most dynamic decisions in a timely manner so that we do not get into a position, as our people say, and I will end it:
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u290	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. You have the floor, Mr. Minister, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u291	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Professor Mihailov, I cannot agree with what you have said so far, as it clearly does not respond to all available medical and scientific information at this time. You're telling us you're presenting a scientific study by the French Pediatrics Association. I can also present you with a study concerning 131 countries, in which it is clearly and accurately visible that, after the opening of schools, an increase in the number of incidences in the countries in which this study has been conducted, which means that yes, students suffer asymptomatically, no one denies it, but are involved and contribute to the path of spread of the disease. So that's what led us. Regarding what you said about open restaurants, this is the case, there are anti-epidemic measures for distance. You know how many people can sit at a table. These are usually the people who, before entering the restaurant, move together, the people of the same family, family or friends, following explicit directions for distance, making their communication absolutely safe with other people and practically interrupting the spread of the disease. With regard to the opening of retail outlets and large centres. By my order of 12 November 2020, it is strictly forbidden to move persons under 18 to the malls, especially without an escort who is an adult. I believe that in this way we will absolutely not stop the spread of the disease, but we are successfully controlling it as a rate of growth with a view to supporting the health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u292	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question to Minister Angelov is from the National Representative Georgi Gokov on information on health status and mortality in the town of Stara Zagora and the municipality for the period from January 2018 until now. You have the floor, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u293	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, my question to you is dictated by an anxiety which was caused in Stara Zagoras, related to their health and to the designation of the town of Stara Zagora as one of the dirtiest cities in Europe. These concerns of the people of Stara Zagora were based on the media appearances of the President of the Bulgarian Association for the Protection of Patients, who said that Stara Zagora and Sofia have the dirtiest air in the European Union. Its claims are based on the CE-Delfi report of the coordinating organisation European Alliance for Public Health on 21 October 2020. The report is made by a consortium of NGOs with public benefit activities in 10 European countries and under the direction of the coordinating organisation European Alliance for Public Health. The study has explored the social costs associated with air pollution in 432 European cities in 30 EU countries, plus others outside the European Union, and it is reported, I will quote: Eighty-five percent of the population dies from diseases caused by bad atmospheric air. This news has greatly moved the Stara Zagoras. Some accepted the allegations as truth, others as manipulation, public tensions were created at all. I took the liberty of asking myself a number of questions to clarify this case and calm public tensions, because I am one of those people who feel that this data is either taken out of context or strongly manipulated. In this regard, Minister, I ask you to answer the following questions: is there information in the Ministry of Health about this report and what is the opinion on it? Which official Bulgarian health institution and what data was submitted to/or used accordingly by the authors of this report? Analyzing mortality data in the report in question, are their figures confirmed by the Ministry of Health and its subordinate Regional Health Inspectorate in Stara Zagora, following the health status of the population and mortality by region? Is there any manipulation of mortality data in the report? Provided that the data exported do not correspond to the truth, who is responsible for manipulating the population and what are the sanctions against it? What measures will the Ministry of Health take to establish the truth to dispel doubts and to reduce public tensions in Stara Zagora caused by this report? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u294	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Thank you for Stara Zagora. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u295	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, there has been no request in the Ministry of Health regarding the provision of data or confirmation of the reliability of data on morbidity and mortality in the European Alliance for Public Health Cities of the country. In this regard, and in the context of your question, I inform you that the Ministry of Health has not provided data to the authors of the study regarding morbidity and mortality for any period of time. With regard to the current legal framework at national level, the Atmospheric Air Cleanness Act lays down the conditions, procedure and method of assessment and management of the air quality. In accordance with the provisions of the same Ministry of Environment and Water, the state policy on the protection of the clean air for ensuring sustainable development, while municipal authorities and regional environmental and water inspections control and manage activities related to air cleanliness in their territory. In accordance with art. 20, para. 1 The quality of the air is monitored through the National System of the Ministry of Environment and Waters for monitoring, control and information on the condition of the environment. The Executive Environment Agency shall process and report information on the country's air quality to the European Environment Agency, the European Commission and other international institutions. In this regard, detailed information on the quality of the air in the country in 2018 is contained in the National report on the state and environmental protection in the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018, published on the website of the Executive Environment Agency. It is clear from the above that the Ministry of Health is not the competent authority to express an opinion on the data on ambient air quality exported in the European Union Public Health Alliance Report on the basis of which conclusions have been drawn on the contribution of contaminated air to the mortality rate in those regions. With regard to the quality of the air and its impact on human health, however, we express the following principle: Air pollution is undoubtedly damaging to human health and the environment. In Europe, emissions of many air pollutants have fallen significantly in recent decades, leading to improved air quality throughout the area. However, the concentration of some air pollutants is still too high and problems with air quality remain. A significant part of Europe's population lives in areas, particularly major cities, where there is an excess of acceptable air quality standards, which creates serious health risks. By popular recognition today, particulates, nitrogen dioxide and ozone close to the Earth's surface are the three pollutants that affect human health to the greatest extent. The Ministry of Health has therefore always supported and will continue to support the efforts of the competent authorities at national and regional level to improve air quality. Regardless of the above, we must not forget that air pollution can be an objective cause of increasing morbidity, but its degree also affects factors such as: quality of living environment, standard of living, style of life, individual characteristics, and others. In this regard, we note that all factors of the environment and the living environment and behavioral factors are interconnected and should be considered together in assessing their impact on the health status of the population.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u296	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u297	I end up with one sentence. With regard to the authenticity of the data on morbidity and mortality in the town of Stara Zagora and the municipality, we have requested information from the structures of the Ministry of Health, which summarize this information at national level. The data received will be provided in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u298	Thank you, too. The line, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u299	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I'm beginning with the following, what you have said about the data you will provide me. I've already received them, and I was very quick to look at them. Of course, these are data that should be commented by specialists. Believe me, I will provide them to such specialists in Stara Zagora along with the data they gave me from the Ministry of Environment and Water. That's where people will analyze them. I also thank you for the concern you have shown.. I do not say it in the bad sense of the word.. the lecture you gave us about the dirty air is really good. But it bothers me that the report says, which can't be true: Stara Zagora is first in Europe's mortality from dirty air. Eighty-five percent of the population dies from diseases caused by bad atmospheric air. First of all, who hires to tell which disease is caused by bad air besides pulmonary diseases? From the data I took a quick look at, I say again, you give me Stara Zagora, comparing the other cities in Bulgaria, for which you have provided data with comparable cities in terms of size, in the majority of them the mortality of such pulmonary diseases is lower. I rather asked the question to appease the Stara Zagoras, because, once again, I say, I do not think that 85% can be true. Otherwise, air cleanliness is not only a problem for Bulgaria, but also for Europe, even more than Europe, because the Green Pact is being talked about. And in this regard, when I mention the Green Pact, I think that a large part of the report, in which the data on Stara Zagora and Stara Zagora are written, is aimed precisely at the complex "Mini Maritsa East" which is located in the territory of Stara Zagora district, and will be one of the most affected by this green pact. It is, of course, irrelevant to the Health Ministry, but this must also be borne in mind.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u300	Thank you, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u301	Just one last clarification, Mr. Chairman. I would like to say that such reports do not know whether they are doing their primary job to protect people or to inform them of such serious and harmful things, but, taken out of context, some claims in them are causing the public to panic and causing more serious problems than benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u302	Thank you. I absolutely agree with your conclusion. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u303	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, on the basis of the review of the report it was found that there is really no such thing as what you quoted and widely reported through the media that the municipality of Stara Zagora is first in Europe's mortality from dirty air. 85% of the population dies from diseases caused by bad atmospheric air. The text on page 27 specifies that the contribution values indicated in Table No 8 relate respectively to mortality and morbidity, only indicate the proportion of each of these two indicators in the total social price associated with air pollution calculated on each particular city participating in the study. This, apart from the inaccuracies described above, should be pointed out that when reading such a highly specialised report from the Bulgarian side, it has also come to a misinterpretation that the percentage indicated for the.85.3, reflects the proportion of deaths resulting from atmospheric air pollution. As mentioned above, this is not the point put into Table 8. The list of 432 European cities from 30 countries, which is really the ultimate goal of the study, reflects their alignment according to the highest calculated social cost related to air pollution in euro per capita for 2018 and presents the values for the first and last 10 cities in Table 10, with Bucharest, Milan and Padua in the first three places. The Bulgarian city, which has the highest social costs according to this list, is Sofia City in eighth place and Stara Zagora does not appear among them. There is no place in the Report to claim that Stara Zagora is a city with high mortality and morbidity due to contaminated atmospheric air. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u304	Thank you, dear Minister. Thank you for participating in parliamentary control today. Good job! We continue with Mrs. Desislava Taneva, Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests. She'll answer three questions. The first one is from the MP Kolyo Milev on the project for construction and reconstruction of a plumbing network in the village of Sborishte, municipality of Tvarditsa. You have the floor, Mr. Milev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u305	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, my question to you is about the site of an internal plumbing network in the village of Sborishte, Municipality of Tsarditsa. Dear Minister, just a few months ago you were present at the official opening, together with the mayor and the district governor of Sliven, at this site for construction of the water network in the village of Sborishte, the municipality of Tvarnitsa. And after just a few days, the object is shut down. At the moment it is again suspended because the documents at the opening of the construction site and the implementation of the construction works are not regular. Dear Minister, my question to you is: what is the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests doing in connection with the repeated suspension of the site of a plumbing network in the village of Sborishte, the municipality of Tsarditsa, financed by the State Fund.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Is there a danger and will the loss of European funds be allowed if it is not implemented? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u306	Thank you, Mr. Milev. You have the floor, Madam Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u307	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Milev, the site has not been stopped and there is currently no evidence of any loss of funds.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u308	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The line, Mr. Milev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u309	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, the site has been stopped by the director of the DNCK Sliven because there is no construction permit that is currently being used for emergencies from August this year. The emergency situation has not been declared in Sliven and its use as such is illegal. At the time of the inspection, the order book on the discovery of the object was not initiated and is not kept. In addition, there is no protocol under Ordinance No 2 for the opening of the construction of the site. For these reasons it has been stopped and has been given the opportunity to remove the shortcomings, but the building permit, which is currently being worked on or wanted to work, is illegal in the opinion of the specialists. Please take more serious steps towards this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u310	Thank you. A hole, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u311	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Milev, your information is false. The subject hasn't been stopped. The office you are quoting is not at the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests, but, nevertheless, given that I have been chosen from there as a representative of the National Assembly, I have checked the information. The misses for which there have been signals have been removed and the object continues to work.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u312	Thank you. The next question is again by Mr. Milev about a logging in the Kotel region of 2000 cubic meters from a centuries-old beech forest. You have the floor, Mr. Milev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u313	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, in recent days there has been public information that there have been more than 2000 cc meters of wood or beech forest over 130 years in the forest area. It is true that the answer of the Forest is that this forest is planned to be cut down, as it is indeed such a large age, but these are centuries old beech forests that are in a water district and are in the region of both the Medvenska River and the provision of water supply of the Luda Kamchia River. I accept the concerns of the citizens of Kotel Municipality and Sliven District, of course, that it is unacceptable for beech forests, which are 100 years old, to be left for preservation as necessary, and 130-year-old forests to be cut down Nearly the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests loses from public procurement somewhere, as is mentioned, if calculated, 100 leva. in a cubic, somewhere 200. 250 leva. So my question to you is about the cutting in the region of Kotel of these cubic meters of beech forest. Has the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry verified the legality of the logging permits granted and its actual volume? Has an assessment been made on the specifics of the terrain, which is a water supply area? Who's the contractor? Has control been carried out on the implementation of logging activities? Of course, are there criteria for the Ministry to perform these orders and to monitor the implementation of the production? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u314	Thank you, Mr. Milev. You have the floor, Madam Secretary, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u315	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Milev, in answer to your questions yes, a check has been carried out by the Ministry of the first question. By my order, such an inspection has been carried out. The grounds for logging and their legality have been established. The specific findings are as follows: by order of 28 July 2015 of the Director and the IAG is established forestry plan of the DGS "Cotel." The validation of the plan was carried out after Decision 29/2014 of the Ministry of Environment and Water. According to this plan sub-sections 411a and 413h with a plotted logging, a group gradual with intensity of 35%. In the implementation of the contract concluded, the Director of the DGS Kotel has assigned to engineer Anton Donchev, entered under No 405-1 of 29 June 2011 in the Public Register, under art. 235 of the Forests Act to carry out marking. In accordance with this contract, one has been carried out, it has been adopted by the Commission of employees of the holding, a protocol has been drawn up which has been established. They are prepared and presented carnet inventory and assortment payrolls according to which 1589 cubic meters of lying mass are marked from sub-section 14a. The 413h sub-section marked 979 cubic meters of lying mass. On the basis of the established plan and the marking carried out are issued permissions for logging of the company Danny 1B " Ltd. for the two sub-sectors. Both plantings at the time of the inspection of the logging have not been completed, therefore no protocol has been drawn up for the certification of the clearing. At the time of the 411a sub-section check, they were transported with a ticket of 1161,08 cubic metres. Sub-section 413h are transported by vehicle tickets 724.45 cubic metres. Both plantations found that the dominant part of the trees are of poor stalks and started rotting processes, and the harvested wood in its dominant part is not fit for the manufacture of veneer and plywood. By my orders of 13 February 2020 and of 30 September 2020, a ban has been imposed on logging in a 15-meter zone around permanent water and flood currents; a 100-meter strip around the large rivers; 200 meters around dams and lakes; 20 meters around springs, wells and captages for which no sanitary areas are separate. By my order of 30 September 2020, restrictions have been introduced in the conduct of logging and in state forest areas, including the average annual use of mature and overgrown high-strength forests in the conduct of renewable logging, not to exceed 10% by volume and area of total intended use for all these plantings for the 10-year period of operation of the respective forestry plan. The two logging permits issued are not in violation of the prohibitions limited and imposed by the above-mentioned orders. Is question number two specific to the terrain? According to the established forestry plan of the GAS "Cotel', those sub-sections are defined as a water supply zone, but not taking into account that, with the entry into force of the Water Act 2000 and Regulation No 3 of 16 October 2000 on sanitary zones, such a term does not exist. According to the Ordinance, sanitary areas are established by order of the respective pool directorate...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u316	Thank you, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u317	Let me finish the logic, at least the second question. ... which impose the relevant regime restrictions in respect of the cuttings carried out. In the departments in question, 411a and 413h do not fall within the register of sanitary zones of the Swimming Directorate of the Black Sea Region of the Basin Directorate of the East-West Sea Region. The other two questions are extra.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u318	Thank you. Mr. Milev, line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u319	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, thank you for your reply. From the inspection, it is clear that according to documents everything has been done in general terms. In the reply of the Director of the State-owned Industry, Kotel are also such motives, but still the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests needs to have criteria to monitor the realization of this wood pulp from the very extraction of the companies that perform the logging and their realization. It is true that, on the current documents, everything is normal, but I believe that the concern of the citizens, as well as the municipality of Kotel, and of the district of Sliven remains the doubts that something is being done wrong there also remain. Please take steps in your further work to prevent such doubts and to inform citizens in advance of what will be done................................................................................................ Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u320	Thank you, Mr. Milev. A hole, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u321	Of course, I would make a specific line if there were specific questions. I would like to add to my answer to the first part of the question asked about the old-age forests. The plants concerned by my Order No RD-49-421 of 2 November 2016 have been identified as old-age forests, and according to the order, the specified plantings are not covered by these forests.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u322	Thank you, dear Minister. We continue with the next question by the National Representative Stoyan Bojinov concerning the registration of tobacco producers. Mr. Bojinov, you have the floor to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u323	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, from four municipalities of Blagoevgrad region we were asked by tobacco producers to be included in the new programming period with the proposed 2018 reference period. There may also be other isolated, small number of unregistered producers in other areas. In the same period they have actually produced tobacco, which is evident from the redeemed protocols of the buying-in companies and from their money transferred to the banks, even more so that they paid the taxes owed to the state. The reasons why they have not registered are of a general and healthy nature. In relation to the above, I have the following specific question: will you allow tobacco producers not registered in the reference year 2018 in the municipalities in place after submission of redeemed protocols and bank statements? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u324	Thank you, Mr. Bojinov. You have the floor for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u325	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Bozhinov, currently in European and national law, the reference year 2018 for transitional national aid has not been established. In order to better focus the aid on those who are actually engaged in agricultural activity, Bulgaria proposed during the negotiations on the future common agricultural policy to provide for the possibility of updating the reference year. The final text of the European legislation regulating transitional national aid will be negotiated after trialogs, such as an agreement between the co-legitizers of the Council of the European Union, the European Commission, the European Parliament. On 27 November 2020, the final trilateral meeting on the transitional regulation is expected. After completion of the process will proceed to its publication in the Official Journal by the end of the year. The trialogs under the regulations on the future CAP are planned during the following timetable until the end of the German Presidency. Regulation on CAP strategic plans "November 19th, 1st and December 10th. The first trialogs will be dedicated to Green Architecture. Horizontal regulation.. 10 December. Another three-sided meeting if possible before Christmas. A regulation on a common market organisation at the beginning of December, most likely on 2 December. The legislative package of the three regulations is expected to be negotiated in 2021, but there is still no clarity on the exact dates. At present, the European Parliament adopted an amendment which was initiated by MPs from Bulgaria, according to which the reference year for transitional national aid is 2018. At the Council of Ministers, we have achieved a common approach whereby there is no change in the reference date and it has a decreasing budget. The European Commission's view is not to have such transitional national assistance, so the trialogs are coming. Until they are finished, we cannot give a final answer to what would happen because it depends on the legislation in its final version.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u326	Thank you, dear Minister. A line? No line. That concludes all the questions to Mrs. Taneva. Thank you for participating in the parliamentary control today, dear Minister. And we continue with a question to Mr. Rosen Zhelyazkov, Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. He will answer a question from the National Representative Dean Stanchev concerning projects of National Company Railway Infrastructure. You have the floor, Mr. Stanchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u327	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, for some time now some media appearances and publications have been noticed, which, although sometimes respond with comfort, have been repeated over time as questions and reports in different media causes some anxiety. Separately I receive signals and information about the theme of projects for major repair and update of the railway network that manages NRIC. There are projects of NRICs which for years the enterprise cannot implement and are delayed for one reason or another with the beginning, not to mention certain stages of implementation, and the end of the implementation period is near. For example, projects for the railway hub "Sofia" and the first highway of the railway line in the part between the station "Elyn Pelin" and "Kostenets" and "September." Separately, new projects are being made despite existing projects made just a few years ago, such as the modernisation of fifth and sixth highways. Dear Mr. Zhelyazkov, in relation to the above, my questions to you are as follows: Is there any sanctions imposed by the European Commission on infringements of the procedures under the CPO carried out in the framework of projects with funding under operational programmes of the European Union which concern NRIC as a beneficiary, and to what value are the sanctions? Second, what level has reached the realization of the project under Operational Programme "Transport and Transport Infrastructure", modernization of the railway line Sofia. "Plovdiv," railway section Elin Pelin "Kostenets" of the NRIC, is there a problem in the part of the implementation by the Spanish company "Contratas Iglesias", which has to build 4.6 km tunnels and which is in liquidation since the end of October 2019. Two months after the signing of the Treaty implementing the division? Is there a risk that funding will be suspended under any operational programme on which NRIC has won participation with a project, and for what reasons?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u328	Thank you, Mr. Stanchev. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u329	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Stanchev, I will answer your questions in general. At present, there are no sanctions imposed by the European Commission on infringements of procedures under the Public Procurement Act carried out in the framework of projects with European funding, specifically under the Operational Programme "Transport and Transport Infrastructure" and those under the Connecting Europe Facility under which the beneficiary is a State enterprise NRIC. Since you mentioned the extremely important national sites in the construction, reconstruction and modernization of railway infrastructure in the Elin Pelin sections "Kostenets" September, I will give you more detailed information, as your question contains a small inaccuracies. The Spanish company mentioned in the question is not among the performers under the project "Modernization of the railway line Sofia" in Elin Pelin and Kostenets. She is a participant in the Consortium for Modernization of the region of Kostenets (September). This section is part of the Sofia Railway Modernization Project, but is funded under the Connecting Europe Facility, which provides 85% co-financing. The project is of strategic importance not only for the country, but also for all countries in the region of Southeast Europe. This project, I repeat, Kostenets, is worth 379 million. 989 thousand. lv. without VAT and includes modernisation of a double electrified railway with an approximate length of 24,5 km. A new railway station will be built within the project and the station will be rebuilt. Three tunnels with a total length of 4.6 km, 23 bridges and viaducts with a total length of 2.5 km are planned to be built. The railway crossings in the railway station will be removed and three new road overpasses will be built in their place. This substation will be rebuilt and new systems for driving will be built. After a public procurement under the Public Procurement Act under the Construction Contract, a company was selected under the Debts and Contracts Act "Kostenets" (September 2018) in which the companies participate: "Translogistics", "Contratas Iglesias" and "Arcada Campani". The deadline for implementation of the Construction Treaty is 60 months. At the date of the conclusion of the contract, the company of the DCI Kostenets "September 2018" and the selected contractor submitted all the documents required for the signing of the contract, which were concluded on 12 August 2019. After a routine internal inspection by the NRIC and requested documents by the company Kostenets "September 2018." Information has been received on the willingness of the partner "Contratas Iglesias" to proceed to fulfill his obligations under contract related to the implementation of tunnel construction activities. It is clear from this information that the Spanish company is in the process of liquidation. As a consequence, actions have been taken by the company "Kostenets" "September 2018" and on 8 September 2020 a change has been entered in the official public registers with which the Spanish company has been deleted as a consortium partner. The same information is officially presented in the NRIC. After establishing the facts about the Spanish participant's inability to fulfil the tunnel construction commitments, on 31 July this year the Consortium entered into a contract with the sub-contractor company Duigu Muchendisklik inshaat tourism dat tijaret is a limited company. I'm sorry...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u330	Thank you, Minister, we're graduating.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u331	Are we graduating?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u332	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u333	Okay, if you want to ask an additional question. [[Calls MP Dean Stanchev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u334	Okay, then please graduate.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u335	This company has attracted a sub-contractor during the implementation of the contract, which is imperative because the Spanish company has demonstrated the minimum selection criteria relating to technical and professional capabilities. In practice, this Spanish company is a participant in the Consortium, not a self-executor of the construction. In accordance with established European practice, all participants in the company under the DPA are jointly responsible and, in the event of bankruptcy of one of them, others must assume an obligation. The contracting authority NRIC shall closely monitor the situation and be prepared to react further to ensure the successful implementation of the project. On 30 July 2020, the project's construction activities are currently under implementation. We believe that, on the basis of the above facts and the actions taken by the contracting authority at the moment, there is no risk of implementing the proposed actions. In conclusion, I will tell you that there are reliable management and control systems operating in the country when managing and spending European funds. At present, there is no risk of cessation of funding under the European programmes and the Railway Infrastructure Mechanism. State-owned enterprise NRIC as a beneficiary of the Operational Programme on Transport and Transport Infrastructure and on the Connecting Europe Facility works actively for the effective use of European funds and achieving optimal results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-13.u336	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. With this, we have completed parliamentary control. Thank you, Minister, for participating in parliamentary control. Next regular plenary session from 9.00 p.m. on 18 November. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
