ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u1	Good afternoon, fellow Members. There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Honourable Members, in relation to the non-compliance and non-compliance with points of the Weekly Programme for the work of the National Assembly provided for yesterday's plenary session, 1 October 2020, I shall make the following procedural proposal on the agenda in today's plenary session, Friday, 2 October 2020, to examine and vote on the following points of the Programme: Draft decision on the establishment of a Temporary Commission to examine the Draft Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs on 1 October 2020, followed by yesterday, 1 October 2020. Point one for today. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Weapons, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles. Importer Manoil Manev and group of MPs on 3 September 2020 Point two for today. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. Importers - Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on 4 May 2020 and the Council of Ministers on 30 July 2020. Point three for today. After their completion, the parliamentary control envisaged for the sitting shall begin. Please, voting mode. They voted 143 MPs: 122, against 12, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. Moving on to: PROJECT OF A DECISION ESTABLISHING A TEMPORARY COMMISSION FOR THE INVESTIGATION OF THE PROJECT OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. Colleagues, yesterday we closed the debate on the point and now we are starting a vote. Yesterday I read the first two points of the Project Decision. I'll read them one more time: Project! DECISION establishing a Temporary Commission for the Study of the Draft Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 37 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and § 2 of the Additional Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Set up a Temporary Commission to examine the Draft Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. 2. The Temporary Commission discusses and analyzes the draft Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and proposes concrete proposals for changes in it. Please vote first on this part. Vote 168 MPs: 119, against 47, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote item three of the draft decision: "3." The Commission shall consist of 18 members of three from each parliamentary group and three non-members of a parliamentary group of MPs, including President and Vice-President. Vote 178 MPs: 116, against 60, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, I give you the floor to make proposals for Members, Chair and Vice-President of this committee. From GERB's group, come in, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable colleagues, on behalf of the GERB parliamentary group, I propose for President Desislava Atanasova and members Krasimir Tsipov and Toma Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u3	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Come in, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u4	Thank you, Madam President. On behalf of the BSP, we have clearly and categorically stated that we will not make any proposals and will not participate in this committee. Thank you. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u5	Thank you, Mr. Popov. The Movement for Rights and Freedoms Group? I see there won't be any suggestions. Colleagues are leaving the room. From the United Patriarchs. Come on in, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u6	Madam President, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the United Patriarchs, we propose Mr. Iskren Veselinov as Vice-President of the Temporary Commission and Mr. Boris Yachev and Mr. Hristian Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u7	Thank you. Will you come in, Mr. Netsov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u8	Madam President, honourable Members! On behalf of the Political Party I propose for members Simeon Naydenov, Plamen Hristov and Elena Pesheva. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u9	From the independent group? Mr. Ivanov, are you going to make the proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I propose as a member of the group of independent Mr. Spas Panchev. Thank you. [[Replicates from the BSP for Bulgaria "Procedure!"]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, you have really decided the circus to be complete and to be complete. [[GERB lines.]] Can I have the secretary of...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u13	What's the procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u14	Can the secretary of GERB's parliamentary group propose on behalf of the independent Spas Panchev?! Tell me, what kind of political logic is that bordering on? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] You're making a committee for the Constitution, Madam President, and on behalf of the largest parliamentary group... [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Well, then say that this MP is a member of your group.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u15	He's not a member of our group.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u16	It is independent and it should be 15 independent people, they should determine who to be a member of this committee, you will not determine.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u17	Mr. Svilensky, please! Please, Mr. Svilensky! I'll put it to the vote. I will put it to the vote and you will have the right to exercise your vote. What's the procedure, tell me?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u18	I expect now to become another representative of GERB and to offer...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u19	Don't expect anything. Let's see what happens. [[Laughter at GERB.]] Colleagues, I first put to the vote the MPs that the parliamentary groups have proposed as members of the committee concerned. Vote 161 MPs: 115, against 44, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the proposal that the President of the Commission be Desislava Atanasova. Vote 156 MPs: 113 against 43 abstentions. The motion is accepted. We are voting for Vice-President of the Commission to be Mr. Honest Veselinov. Vote 154 MPs: 109, against 44, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I now vote on item five of the draft decision: It's five o'clock. The Commission shall be set up for a period of two months. Vote 158 MPs: 109 against 49, no abstention. The motion is accepted. We are now voting on the entire decision to set up a Temporary Commission to examine the Draft Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Vote 169 MPs: 116, against 52, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Negative vote please, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u20	Thank you, Madam President. We voted against it for general reasons. Findings that we share not only ourselves but also the entire scientific community dealing with law and legal capacities in the Republic of Bulgaria. However, now that we have seen the composition of this committee, which you have also done with a rude violation of the Rules of Procedure, proposing by GERB an independent MP to participate in it, we are firmly convinced in our rightness both in principle and in terms of composition. We wish you every success in this venture, which is absolutely insane. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u21	Thank you, Mr. Popov. We don't expect an evaluation from you. Moving on to the next item on today's agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE ARMY, THE BOEATRAPAS, THE VISITIVE SUBSTANCES AND THE PYROTECHIC ARTICLES The Internal Security and Public Order Committee report will introduce us to Mr. Nunev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please allow: Mr. Milko Berner Deputy Minister; Commissioner Veselin Mladenov Chief of the Security Police at the General Directorate of the National Police.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u23	I shall put the proposal to the vote. They voted 122 MPs: 115, against 2, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u24	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Arms, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles, No 054-01-87, submitted by Manoil Manev and a group of MPs on 3 September 2020. At its meeting on 24 September 2020, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Arms, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles, No 054-01-87, submitted by Manoil Manev and a group of MPs on 3 September 2020. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Internal Affairs: Senior Commissioner Todor Grebenarov, Deputy Director of the General Directorate of the National Police. The bill was presented by the MP Manoil Manev. The importer noted that the bill provides for a reduction in the administrative burden of both the Ministry of Interior and the citizens and companies within the scope of the Law. Another objective of the Bill is to entrust control activities related to the production of arms to the Ministry of Economy and to an interdepartmental commission with powers related to this process. The production of weapons is a process that is logically linked to our country's economy and control should be carried out by the Ministry of Economy and not by the Ministry of Interior. The amendments and additions are intended to protect the authenticity and functionality associated with the cultural and historical value of weapons. The practice has shown that the regime should also be harmonised for copies of historical weapons. At the moment, holders of such weapons after a one-year period should have declared them and received certificates that legitimize them as non-gunshot weapons. The amendments and supplements will improve the legislation in force and create prerequisites for its effective operation. The bill does not require the addition of additional funds. On the bill there are received opinions from the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Economy. Members of the National Assembly Ivan Ivanov, Dimitar Stoyanov, Manoil Manev took part in the discussion. On the basis of the 9-vote vote, 8-votes against and no-no-inspiring internal security and public order committee proposed to the National Assembly the draft amendment and supplement to the Law on Arms, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles, No 054-01-87, submitted by Manoil Manev and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 3 September 2020 to be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u25	Thank you, Mr. Nunev. Report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, Mrs. Saveklieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u26	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Arms, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles, No 054-01-87, submitted by Manoil Manev and a group of MPs on 3 September 2020. At its regular meeting on 30 September 2020, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Arms, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles. The bill presented by the National Representative Manoil Manev aims to reduce the administrative burden; assigning the control activity related to the production of arms to the Minister of Economy, respectively the Interdepartmental Commission on Export Control and Non-Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction, as production is an economic activity; preserving the cultural and historical value of weapons and uniformising the regime with regard to the copies of historical weapons. Written opinions on the Bill expressing principled support and with concrete proposals for amendments to some of its texts were received by the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Economy. During the discussion, representatives of importers, the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Interior expressed their readiness to specify the controversial texts between the first and second votes of the Bill. After presenting and discussing the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: 12 votes for the draft, 8 votes against the draft, without abstention. On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, in the first vote, a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Arms, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles, No 054-01-87, submitted by Manoil Manev and a group of MPs on 3 September 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Saveklieva. An importer's opinion, Mr. Manev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u28	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The first thing I want to do from this tribune is thank the colleagues with whom we are importers of this law for giving me the pleasure and opportunity to present it. Why pleasure? Why honor? Because this law, which we offer you in this House today, has its two inextricable parts. One is what we have also stated in the committees, we also state from the stand that, with the full commitment of all colleagues who have expertise, experience, knowledge, weapons skills, we are ready on a very wide scale, working groups and at all meetings of the Internal Commission, to work out the texts. Because when we talk about this part of the Bill, i.e. control over the production of army weapons, the devil always lies in the details, and details of such texts can be processed and worked out by experts and specialists who show their desire and participate in all working groups that will take place between first and second readings. The idea at the moment, in the texts of the Law, in this part, relates to the fact that there is a law in force that complies with the European directive, in which the possibility of the Ministry of Interior controlling the production of military weapons, of military weapons, of weapons that are outside the civil turnover is prohibited, limited. Spoken in ordinary human language, the Ministry of Interior has no right to control or issue documents related to the control of such weapons. We need to solve this and fix this. The natural place of this control, I think, and my fellow importers, and according to all the experts we talked to, is in the Ministry of Economy. I know this sounds scary. We're transferring all control. There's no such thing. The control is now carried out by committees involving the construction experts on production technology, on security, the Ministry of Interior participates in the committees. But in the end, the document certifying the conduct of one inspection, the completion of one inspection, the production permits, the extension of permits, their renewal and so on, the signature that stands below is the Minister of Interior. This cannot go on and must be changed. The signature under the permits, the Commission's final document, must be the Minister of Economy, as we propose, and with this to clear the procedure. There are no other changes in technology, in the manner of carrying out checks and issuing documents. This is about this part of the bill. With regard to the other main part of the Bill, the implementation, as written in our motives, of the weapons regime produced by 1900, and their copies, will very briefly try to list something. These are: the organizations under the aegis of the Federation of Black Guns and the National Movement of Tradition; the Association of the Armi; the Association of the Club of Darts and Varna; the National Movement of Haidutti. There's a lot more I'm just reading a list that's right in front of me. I hope that none of these associations of Bulgarian patriots will be offended that I have missed it from this tribune. All these people are doing an activity that you and I and citizens see on big holidays, on reenactments. When we see them dressed in their uniforms, with the weapons from the historical past of Bulgaria, we are very happy to see them. However, this work, in addition to showing these things, has to do with a great deal of work on acquisition, storage, preservation of the weapon as a cultural and historical value and it requires special treatment from us. I'll just tell you this: currently in Bulgaria the masters of weapons, which 200 years ago were many, are now no more than the fingers of one hand. And if we do not accept this change that we offer you, they cannot sell their weapons, because it is not produced to apply for a permit under the Law, as it is at the moment. We simply suggest that the regime to acquire a black powder-filled black powder spear until 1900 be such that it is not limited by the Law, but after it is acquired by the owner, deciding that it will carry it out from home to use it, then pass the license registration regimes. That's the change. Yeah, that change has been wanted and waited ten years. Yes, this change required us to go out and state whether we support these people in their activities, in the overall activity of these associations, or do we not support them? And finally I will just say: look, Bulgaria is a unique country with regard to the weapon. Our history, unlike European and global history, has roots in the possession of weapons that are neither social status nor origin nor financial capabilities, as has been throughout Europe, throughout the world in historical terms. The Bulgarian owned, could own and each had a gun in his house. It's a fact that we can't and shouldn't even think about missing. We have to say it every day. Because if in a European country a rifle at home had only the feudal, the manager, the blue blood and the hunting was a privilege only of the rich, then in Bulgaria this is not a tradition, and we should keep this tradition. In this regard, it is also the last part of the Law that I would like to mention to you a few things: this is a treatment regime, I say it in general, understandable, i.e. marking or disposal, and so on of weapons that are historical values. That is, they are in collections located in museums, and we legally had to operate on these weapons to make technical interferences to bring them into the form required by the Law. Our bill, which I am proposing today to you to support, allows such weapons to be marked, disarmed, deactivated and so on only when it does not damage, does not destroy the weapon to be clearer and to escape the word weapon that frightens people who have no contact with it. The rifle of one of our revolutionaries is in a museum and this rifle, if we implement the Law, we have to write a number on it or disarm it, fill it with lead, break it down, find it or something like that. This is unacceptable! It's a sacrament! And it must remain as it was, in which it was, and stored for future generations. We can't afford these things! So we say that if any element of this weapon is to be affected, destroyed, damaged, it is not subject to this type and manner of restraint, marking and interference on it. I can talk about guns for a long time, but I'll save it, save it for you. Just please support the Law, because these people are waiting for it, these people will appreciate all of what you have done, and the next Shipka. Either the next reenactment in Koprivshtitsa or somewhere else you will see them again with their weapons with the safer copies of the old weapons, and I think you will be pleased with what we have done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Manev. I'm opening the debate. You have the word for it, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u30	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Today, a bill of amendments to the Law on Weapons, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles is presented to our attention. I listened carefully to the importer's opinion and will say: yes, but no. Because this bill is an extremely screaming example of how it should not be done and how legislation should not be made. Unfortunately, the importers have a good idea, which has been told to us here as a fairy tale from our children's age about ancient weapons, is ruined with some proposals that are not right and it is not normal to pass here as a proposal from the people's representative. I do not dispute the right of every MP to submit bills, but, honourable Members, this has shown how there is a new trend in making legislation. So far, we have spoken as opposition that legislation is being made against citizens, against society, now legislation is being made against the institutions. What do I mean? The honourable Members who tabled this bill, along with all these noble ideas of theirs, to regulate the regime for antique weapons, collector weapons, the preservation of the historical heritage and so on, which no one contests in this House, in my opinion, another regime is changing. The Ministry of Interior is unclear why, from the arms production control regime, one question that we can hardly get an answer to. We couldn't get the answer in the Commission either. This bill, in order to obtain the support it must have in order to convince the public, in order for the institutions to be convinced that this must happen, had to go by the order in which the draft laws were introduced through the Council of Ministers, had to go through a public discussion, it had to be heard not only the opinions of the ministries, which at least in the Commission what we saw and heard, were negative with regard to the bill. We should have heard the names of the producers of those who are interested in the whole circuit. Now, with several rapid and urgent amendments to the Law, we are taking away the possibility of the Ministry of Interior having at all a cashiership with regard to the process of manufacturing weapons, ammunition and pyrotechnic means and all control is transferred to the Ministry of Economy in a vague and unclear way. Yes, it is true the Ministry of Economy has sent an opinion that, you see, it generally supports, but you, if you read the initial statement, it is murderous, and it is completely objective, precisely, clearly and categorically. The Ministry of Interior must not leave this process, the authorities of the Ministry of Interior must remain in the process. This law, this theme, we've dealt with for years. And to tell you the truth, there's one taste left in us, one sensation that even sees lobbying here. It will become clear in which direction. Whether anyone is interested in this thing the Ministry of Interior getting out of control, whether something else is going to happen, will become clear. I am not convinced that the Ministry of Economy has the capacity and capabilities and whether this thing will be regulated in time so that it can become the role you want to describe it in this bill. The generous offer, you see, will drop the administrative burden, here is a reverse sign. The administrative burden won't fall. This whole process of transferring control from one ministry to the other ministry will create an administrative burden, honourable Members. It won't ease the state of control over weapons production, make it difficult for these manufacturers, traders and so on. Everyone in the chain will be in trouble. We BSP colleagues, quite normally and culturally, in the Commission, have proposed that the bill be drawn up, divided into two parts. This part, which concerns cultural historical heritage and the collection of such weapons, which has been produced in older years and is used for reconstructions, to enter the Chamber, to review, to vote and to ease the regime. Because we have heard: yes, there are deadlines that need to be met, but the other thing, to put it mildly, is questionable and embarrassing. And that is why, fellow Members, I propose today in this Chamber that we reject this bill. Urgently, colleagues to bring it back only to the part which concerns this collector's weapon to pass the bill in its second part in the order of entering the Council of Ministers, to go through public discussion, to hear all opinions and opinions, to find the right, correct regulation regime if this process is to happen. But I say again: I am strongly opposed to the Ministry of Interior coming out of the process of controlling the production of weapons. It's a nonsense. Understand that, colleagues. In fact, here today, by the way, between the drops, we will make a big mistake that will be difficult to correct. We're going to introduce a chaos regime that will be difficult to organize from now on. I am not convinced that even between first and second readings we will introduce such texts that will regulate this process to become more normal and get on the track because writing the Law is one thing, its vote is another, and its implementation is third. The opportunities of the relevant institutions and institutions, and so on, are to implement the Law. I personally doubt that this thing will happen within those deadlines that should happen, and the whole process will be difficult. That is why I really call on you today to reject this law, to go by the order that is intended for entry through the Council of Ministers, because this concerns the relationship between institutions, affects an entire industry, colleagues. We want to put a stumbling stone in this industry right now, which we don't know what direction it's going to hit. [[Reply from the National Representative Manoil Manev.]] Mr. Chairman, can I be replicated from the stands and not from a place? Get to the point!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u31	He'll give you a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u32	So, honourable Members, let this law today be rejected and entered, as it should be with consensual procedures and with opinions of all parties concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u33	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. The Minister wants the floor. Mr. Borisov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Apart from the reports and debates that were presented and held in the two responsible committees of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that we have held several more discussions and meetings on the proposed draft. First of all, a meeting was held by the household, which was held by the Minister of Interior, which was attended by me, representatives of the Ministry of Economy, representatives of the CoS, representatives of the Police Directorate, the State Agency of National Security, importers and all other stakeholders. A similar discussion was held at the Interdepartmental Council on Defence Industry at the point "Distinguish" which is at the Council of Ministers. In the beginning, the experts of the Ministry of Economy saw that from a legal and technical point of view, some debates were created. However, after the meetings held, which are outside the two committees of the National Assembly, what I can say and with which I can support the Ministry of Economy proposals Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Arms, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles, first of all, we have a European directive. Secondly, the Ministry of Economy will not be created a new administrative structure and I will not address the Minister of Finance for a new financial resource, for a new such administrative structure. All institutions that have been responsible for the control process will remain the same way they have worked until now. Only the final administration of the process with the relevant administrative acts will be in the Ministry of Economy or under the control of some of the collective bodies................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u35	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. [[Relations from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov.]] The way you're leading it? I will give you the floor, Mr. Ivanov, in the manner of conduct, but you should not in any way affect the subject discussed and the speech of the Minister.........................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u36	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Mr. President, since you are in the lead of the meeting, it is appropriate to intervene in this situation and to end the debates under this law because, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, the laws are adopted by this Parliament, by this current Chamber, at all by the National Assembly. Firstly, all these opinions that are presented, which are voted on, which are taken into account when voting on a particular bill, are passed through the relevant portfolio committee, Mr President. You know the rules well. In our committees, we were presented with very different opinions. This means that at the moment the MPs, at the very least, are not informed about what is happening. You're asking us to take an uninformed vote right now. For this reason, this bill to withdraw, to remove, to reconvene the meetings, to hear the opinions of these committees, Mr President. Otherwise, we are now entering a legislative nonsense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u37	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. I have no reason not to believe in the information of the MPs. A statement? Here you go, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u38	I had the opportunity as an importer to speak on the subject of the Law. I won't explain to Mr. Ivanov what the Law says to have read it! I will not tell him that the opinions were uploaded into the system of the National Assembly. He could see when, what opinions are uploaded and what is written in them. That either he hasn't read them, or deliberately from this tribune, it's his decision to deceive the people who listen to him. I just want to say this: when from this tribune someone to serve close party interests is ready to subject to criticism, to lies, to improperly speaking texts that are clearly written, easy to understand that I do not understand?! Nowhere, but nowhere in the Bill has it been said that the Ministry of Interior is somehow leaving the control process, that it is changing its duties in carrying out control. There's no such thing anywhere! Nowhere in this bill can it be about lobbying and Mr. Ivanov's opposite opinion that we will confuse the industry. Nothing in the process changes. To explain. First of all, you can't confuse a process that doesn't change. Second place for lobbying. This bill concerns all those involved in the manufacture of arms, all those involved in the manufacture of arms, and all who will apply to receive documents under this regime. Now, fellow Members, tell me where in such a text, which refers to all the same regime, the same rules, the same regime, you can find the word "lobosm"? But she's not the target. She's the one who's trying to set someone up. She, the goal, is just to make someone uncomfortable for proposing a bill. I don't accept that. Whether the MPs have the right to submit bills on how to import them, what kind of bills these drafts should be to protect the Lord, not to be Mr. Ivanov the person who will give such permission to the MPs! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u39	Thank you, Mr. Manev. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u40	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Mr. Manev, if you do not understand, in this law you are disturbing public interests, not close parties. [[Noise and lines.]] BSP is not related to the production of weapons, honourable colleagues! [[Noise, laughter and lines.]] The public interest right now is being violated by you in the most brutal way! [[Loud noise and lines.]] And don't shout in the hall! Because when you're told the truth, that's how you react. It's the truth! [[Noise and lines.]] Because here you're defending lobbyism! I'm telling you right now, and it's gonna make sense who you're lobbying for in a very short time... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u41	Mr. Ivanov, I would like to remind you that your line... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u42	Getting the Ministry of Interior out of production control, Mr. Manev?! Don't say things that are clearly scheduled. You either don't know what you wrote in the Law, or you're trying...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u43	Mr. Ivanov, the line is essentially to the statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u44	Don't interrupt me, Mr. Chairman! I'm making a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u45	I'll stop you when you break the rules!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u46	I'm making a line for Mr. Manev, if you don't understand!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u47	You're not making a line right now...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u48	Did you listen to what he said, Mr. Manev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u49	I'm listening to you too. You're out for a line, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u50	So, Mr. Manev, you are extremely wrong in what you want here to present to us. Whether or not any MP will write a bill is written to him as a right in the Constitution, but it is reserved for the Bulgarian people to continue writing such bills! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u51	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Second line. Is there gonna be a third line?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u52	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Manev, I'm addressing you. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Manev, let me hear you! I'm addressing you. I am aware of the associations with which I have been in contact for more than 10 years that you are one of the largest specialists in the country on these issues. But, Mr. Manev, in your speeches, however, in order for the ladies in Parliament to understand us, who are far from these weapons, you should have simply said so. Here, I give you an example to understand why this law should be introduced: a Smith Wesson from 1867. It's a unique weapon. By the current rules, his barrel must be crushed in three places. It's destroying this weapon. It's just ruining it. Therefore, associations such as Rodoloving, with whom I have been in contact for many years... [[Noise and lines.]] Please, a little more silence! ... associations, as for example, have been waiting for this law for more than 10 years. Mr. Ivanov in one is right yes, some things need to be cleaned up, but let's not burn the quilt because of the flea! Between first and second reading, some things we can fix. Here, and the Minister said that all weapons control institutions remain. What's the problem, I don't understand?! So this isn't about any lobbying, colleagues. I want to preserve historical weapons that are really priceless for both Bulgarian museums and collectors and so on. If you call me a lobbyist, call me a lobbyist. Let's call me a lobbyist! But this law, in my opinion, must be voted on! Thank you. Mr. Manev, I insist that you answer these questions. Am I right, am I wrong?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u53	Thank you. Next line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u54	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! It kind of mixes things up a little bit. In this bill specifically for the collector's weapon, no one has any objections, and you revolve everything around it, which shows only one thing that does not appear in the whole text and in the principle differences that there are. Yeah, none of us mind those texts that concern the collector's weapon. [[Noise, lines and calls.]] Can you not yell at me, because I can scream too!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u55	Let's see how you vote!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u56	You were talking about the creepy word "lobism." Lobbyism in this bill has, and it's not about collector weapons. This lobbying contains colleagues, open your bill, where it says: "In art. 5, t. 2 After the automatic firearms are added: except in the case of self-security of banking institutions licensed by BNB and after obtaining permission from this law. Translated means that banking institutions will have the right to have automatic weapons. What are we gonna do? Private armies? Who prevents them from guarding their banks without automatic weapons?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u57	Read these laws!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u58	Why should banks be excluded? Tell me!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u59	Is that lobbying?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u60	What is it? [[Noise and lines.]] Well, here it is in the Law, see, read........................................................................................... Five! Live lobbying for banking institutions and security companies that guard banks. That's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u61	A hole, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u62	I'll start with my colleague's last line because she's interesting. He's a member of the Internal Affairs Committee. Colleagues, read these laws! [[Noise and lines.]] The Private Security Act explicitly states who has the right to make self-security units are only budget organizations and organizations that are... [[Noise and lines.]] Now, let's see where you found private security companies that have the right to make self-security units. I am the author of the change that we have introduced together with all of you that no one has the right to make self-security units, except the Atomic, the BNB and several other budgetary organizations, state, budget. Where did you find the lobbying here?! [[Noise and lines.]] From now on, the other topics about lobbying in the other part of the Law. Yeah, okay! Dear colleagues, honourable Bulgarian citizens, Manoil Manev the MP in the 44th National Assembly is a lobbyist! He is a lobbyist of the Bulgarian arms industry, lobbyist of the Bulgarian arms collectors, lobbyist of the patriotic organizations to preserve the tradition in the weapon! [[(Noise, applause, cheers by GERB and OP:]] To make it easier for them, to make it so that they can do their work! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u63	Thank you, Mr. Manev. Mr. Sabanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u64	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Since modern words of lobbying become the subject of today's debate, we very rightly need to understand what lobbying is. In the end, lobbying is actions that someone will benefit from. Isn't that right?! I do not see from this bill, as far as I have read it correctly and consistently, who should win the Ministry of Economy or the Ministry of Interior? In the end, the Ministry of Economy, if I am not mistaken, issues the licenses to manufacture weapons, which means that they are familiar. The Commission, in which the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Economy participate, does so. I've talked to a lot of hairdressers. They're really not in this matter. They are not in the matter of military weapons, nor do they have a concept of aviation bombs, which they have so far controlled in some way, and they do not know how. Not to mention that when private military weapons manufacturing companies, and so on, have to go to their own polygon to test or advertise their weapons, they have to call the COS, who eventually don't understand this. It's none of their business, they deal with personal weapons, personal weapons, in fact, sports, hunting and so on. It is enough, as the head of the COS himself said, "We don't have enough people to control what we have at the moment. I between first and second reading have made a commitment with the Ministry of Interior we will see how we will understand each other, but all these arms dealers on the internal market will finally get what they want for at least 10 years, an electronic system of working with the Ministry. Because these papers, which are fresh and sent to the Cos, are piled up in some rooms and forgotten from there, when there is some problem, they go out and dig in, not from those rooms where they are placed in the Ministry, but from those people who sell them, I think it will be easier for everyone, if there is an electronic system in which with a few blows the keyboard will come out everything that is needed both for the investigative authorities, for the Ministry of Interior and for the people who deal with it. Regarding historical weapons, we will have a proposal that will perhaps excite part of the room, for amnesty of weapons, which have been produced by, for example, the end of World War II and found in garages, ceilings and so on. In our opinion, these weapons are right and should be registered to know that this man by Ivan, to whom the manlihera was example of his great-grandfather, to be able to go to the police without worrying about keeping him, going and registering this rifle, to declare to him whether as an historical one, whether as another weapon, but to have some peace in these people to take out these weapons, to register them and not to worry about them, as well as, of course, not to worry about people in the Ministry of Interior, if anything happens, not to know where a firearm came from. We have other things, too. We, as in general, as in the Commission, have supported this law by the United patriots. We're thinking of doing it now, at first reading. As I understand it, there will be enough working groups to clear the texts. Who have concerns from the left side of the room, Mr. Ivanov, where it is about the military proceedings and the relations between the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Interior, I think that all this will be cleared both in the committees and in the working groups, so that there are no concerns either in them or in all Bulgarian citizens and to do a good deed for everyone in fact. In this law we do good for every single representative in every single chain of this production system, for use, for historical weapons and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u65	Thank you, Mr. Sabanov. Are there lines? Any other speeches? I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Weapons, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles, No 054-01-87, submitted by the National Representative Manoil Manev and a group of MPs. Vote 131 MPs: 97, against 32, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u66	Honourable President, I ask that, as regards the newly adopted Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Arms, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles be extended by three weeks between the first and second votes, that is to say, the maximum term of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u67	I shall put the proposal to the vote. Vote 119 MPs: 104 against 4, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Moving on to: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAWS IN THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. They are: the People's Representative Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs and the Council of Ministers. Report of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order you have the floor, Mr. Nunev, to present the two reports.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u68	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal for admission to the hall of Milko Berner
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u69	I shall put the proposal to the vote. They voted 102 MPs: 97, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Please continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u70	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 002-01-31, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 July 2020. At its meeting held on 24 September 2020, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 002-01-31, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 July 2020. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Internal Affairs: Rositsa Grudeva, Director of the Directorate of Legal and Normal Activities, Vladislava Radonova, Head of the European Union and Law at the Directorate of Legal and Normal Activities and at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: Rumyana Yordanova, Head of Consulate at the Department of Consular Affairs in the European Union and Schengen Department of Consular Relations and by the Ministry of Justice: Milena Kotseva, Director of the Directorate of the Republic of Bulgaria, before the European Court of Human Rights and Iva Stancheva, Head of the European Court of Human Rights; by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy: Hristo Simeonov. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Rositsa Grudeva. In its presentation, the importer noted that it is necessary to clarify the Law on foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria as regards the full implementation of Directive 2011/98/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 2011 on a single application procedure for a single permit for residence and work in the territory of a Member State and on a common set of rights for workers from third countries legally residing in a Member State which aims to establish a single application procedure leading to a combined act involving a residence permit and a permit for work in a single administrative act in relation to a request from the European Commission for Information Phase. Since Directive 2011/98/EU constitutes a framework directive and a model for establishing rules and procedures for residence subsequently laid down in newer legal instruments of the European Union in the field of legal migration, other provisions of the Law on foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, which transpose Council Directive 2009/50/EC of 25 May 2009 on conditions for the entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of highly qualified employment and Directive 2014/36/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on conditions for the entry and stay of third-country nationals for the purpose of employment as seasonal workers should also be clarified. It is also necessary to clarify the provisions of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria relating to the Directive 2014/61/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on the conditions for entry and residence of third-country nationals in the framework of an intra-corporate transfer once again with regard to the regulation of a single residence and work procedure. The arrangements governing the conditions and arrangements under which the students of third-country nationals holding a valid residence permit issued by another Member State are entitled to mobility and may enter and reside in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria for the purpose of conducting part of their studies in a higher school in the Republic of Bulgaria should also be refined by providing that the right of entry and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria can be exercised only on the basis of notification by the second Member State and not subject to authorisation. The bill provides that students of third-country nationals who complete their education in the Republic of Bulgaria can continue to work in the country without having to leave its territory for the purpose of issuing a long-stay visa. The requirements to be met by a foreigner with authorised residence not less than one year in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria in order to be able to meet his family are currently regulated only in the Rules for the Implementation of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. In this regard, it is necessary to amend the procedure for the collection of a family to be regulated in the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. There is no effective remedy in claiming that expulsion of a person in a given host country would endanger his or her life or endanger him from torture or inhuman or degrading treatment. There is no automatic suspension effect on the execution of the expulsion order pending the completion of the proceedings on appeal under art. 44a of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, and there is no obligation for the expulsion authority to refer to the host person in a binding legal act, and there is no distinction between the orders for expulsion on the grounds of national security and the orders for expulsion based on public order infringement in accordance with the explanatory report to Protocol No 7 and the practice of the European Court of Human Rights, which requires the need to correct individual provisions of Chapter 5 of the Act on Administrative Force. The draft Law on the Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria aims to amend and supplement the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, leading to the removal of the problem of implementing Directive 2011/98/EU, identified by the European Commission by clarifying art. 24th of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. The aim is also to refine the procedures for issuing residence permits for foreigners applying for seasonal work in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. 24k of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria; precision of the procedure for residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of highly qualified employment. 33k of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria; precision of the procedure for residence of third-country nationals within the framework of the intra-corporate transfer. 33p of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as the framework of the procedure for the collection of family of a foreigner with authorised residence on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria on the legal level. Another objective of the proposed amendment is the creation of an effective means of protecting the expulsion of a foreigner into a third secure country. Other provisions of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as legal procedures, which are currently regulated in the Rules for the Implementation of the Law, are also intended to be refined. The adoption of the Bill will make the necessary regulatory changes relating to the need to refine individual provisions with a view to their practical application. The framework will be refined and the administrative burden will be reduced against highly qualified workers, seasonal alien workers, residence of third-country nationals within the framework of an intra-corporate transfer, foreigners moved within the framework of an intra-corporate transfer with regard to their residence on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. A harmonised approach will be introduced for issuing multiple visas for regular conscientious foreigners with a positive history of the issued visas for a period which is gradually increased from 1 to 5 years, and thus the amendments to Article will be introduced. 24 of the Visa Code. On the bill were received opinions from the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation, from the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria, from the Confederation of Labour. On the basis of the vote held, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 10 votes for the European Parliament and 7 votes for the Foreigners Act in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 002-01-31, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 July 2020, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft amendment to the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u71	And the second report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u72	♪ I can't believe on a bill supplementing the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 054-01-38, submitted by the National Representative Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on 4 May 2020. At its meeting on 30 September 2020, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order examined and discussed the Draft Law on Supplement to the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 054-01-38, submitted by the National Representative Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on 4 May 2020. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Internal Affairs: Biljana Stojkova, Chief Legal Consultant in the Department of Regional Affairs and European Union Law and in the Directorate of Legal and Normal Activities....and Vladislava Radonova Head of Sector.....Processories in the European Union for residence and work....Migration Department..................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the National Representative Julian Angelov. In his exhibition, the importer noted that the reasons that require the adoption of the Law on Supplement to the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria are related to the need to overcome the consequences in the tourism sector caused by the emergence of COVID-19. The proposed bill aims to enable foreigners to access our country more easily, given that the visa regime is mandatory for them and when they are willing to take advantage of the tourist services offered in Bulgaria. The proposals made will also affect the owners of real estate in Bulgaria, for which with the change they will have the opportunity to take advantage of their property and indirectly help overcome the crisis. The proposed changes will help the tourism industry overcome and reduce losses. It will facilitate access to the tourist services offered to tourists outside the territory of the European Union. The bill does not provide for State costs. No administrative changes are envisaged as well as the introduction or modification of regulatory regimes. The Ministry of Interior has expressed its opinion by letter No 812100 "6832 of 12 May 2020 in which they argue that the proposals for supplement of the Foreigners Act in the Republic of Bulgaria are contrary to the provisions in force of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as to the basic principles and provisions of Regulation (EC) No 810/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council, a Community Code of Visa, which is an act of general application and binding for all Member States. DANS expressed its opinion by letter No PN 1050 of 12 May 2020, which also concluded, with reasons expressed by the Ministry of Interior, that the adoption of the additions to the Foreigners Act in the Republic of Bulgaria would create certain risks to national security. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs also received an opinion under heading 01-00-132 of 21 May 2020, noting that the proposals made are unacceptable. They remind that the European Union has a single visa policy and Bulgaria applies the common legal basis of the Community in the area of "Vizi" and the legal rules governing the adoption, processing and issuance of visas are transposed into our legislation. The envisaged new short-stay visa is contrary to Schengen requirements and EC Regulation No 810/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe on a common Community Visa Code. Visas are intended to be issued by diplomatic and consular missions and at the border only in exceptional, humanitarian, state interest and others, excluding the possibility of issuing visas for tourism purposes. Getting a right of residence for a period of one year on grounds of acquired property is also unacceptable, as it would lead to a visa shopping and would endanger our national security as well. The automatic re-issue of a visa is also unacceptable as each visa is issued after an individual assessment of the migration risk and threat to national security, public policy and public health. It is recommended that the bill be implemented in accordance with national law, European Union law and international instruments to which the Republic of Bulgaria is a country. The discussion was attended by the MPs Manoil Manev, Valentin Radev, Alexander Siddi and Rosen Malinov. On the basis of the vote held, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 2 votes in favour of the European Parliament and 15 votes abstentions proposed that the National Assembly should not adopt at first vote a bill supplementing the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 054-01-38, submitted by the National Representative Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on 4 May 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u73	Thank you, dear Mr. Nunev. For the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Report, Mrs. Angelova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u74	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 002-01-31, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 July 2020. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at its regular meeting held on 17 September 2020, discussed and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 002-01-31, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 July 2020. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Rositsa Grudeva, Director of the Legal and Normal Activities Directorate at the Ministry of Interior, who presented the reasons for the draft. In her exhibition Mrs. Grudeva explained that the proposals for amendment and supplement of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria are aimed at the full transposition of Directive 2011/98 of the European Union on the Single Application Procedure for a single residence and work permit in the territory of a Member State. In general, the directive aims to establish a Single application procedure leading to a combined act, an administrative act involving a residence permit and a work permit. Under the current Bulgarian legislation, the procedure for issuing a Single residence permit and work is related to submitting an application to two administrative bodies "The Employment Agency of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and to the Department of Migration" to the Ministry of Interior. In this regard, as the European Commission found in its pilot study, it is necessary to take measures by Bulgaria to sign a single procedure for issuing a work and residence document. Following this direction, the proposed bill provides that the application and obtaining of a Single residence and work permit is to be carried out in front of a single structure, namely the "Migration" Directorate of the Ministry of Interior, with detailed details of the procedure for the coordination of applications submitted for the issue of a Single residence permit and work with the relevant competent national bodies involved in the permit of residence and providing access to the labour market. It is envisaged that a single residence and work permit may be granted to foreign nationals of third countries who are eligible for access to the labour market under the legislation and hold a long-stay visa or residence permit under Regulation 10/30. The period for the single authorisation shall be three years and, where the contract of employment is shorter than three years, the authorisation shall be granted for the duration of the contract. It is also permissible to extend the period for the authorisation granted where, of course, the conditions for that are available. The Bill provides for the application for the issue of a Single Authorisation to be submitted to the Migration Directorate, with this legal option to be used by the employer or authorized by him or the foreigner. It is envisaged that, after receiving the application and accompanying documents to this application, which are implicitly regulated in the Draft Law, the Directorate of Migration shall send for coordination to the Employment Agency by electronic means the whole package of documents, including those sent for coordination with the State Agency of National Security, which, on the other hand, shall provide an opinion on competence and that the procedure for issuing this single permit shall not be longer than two months, but under the Directive, an exception is allowed where the case itself constitutes legal and factual complexity, the period for issuing that authorisation to be extended by another two months. Since the Single Authorisation Directive is a Framework Directive, it is necessary to propose relevant amendments to other texts of the Foreigners Act, which transpose several directives, in particular the Seasonal Employment Directive, also the Highly Qualified Workers Directive, the so-called Blue Card, as well as the intra-corporate transfer. These are generally the changes that concern this bill. Finally, the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law proposed amendments to the Law on Labour Migration, relating above all to the changes proposed in the Law on Foreigners, in view of the uniform permit. In the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, critical opinions from the CST and KT were received. The following discussion was attended by the People's Representative Hasan Ademov, Mario Ninov from KT "Supportpa", Rositsa Grudeva After the end of the discussion and voting with results: 10 votes for........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ He proposed to the National Assembly to support a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 002-01-31, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 July 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Report from the Foreign Policy Committee Mr. Gazhev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u76	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Foreign Policy on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 002-01-31, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 July 2020. At a meeting held on 9 September 2020, the Committee on Foreign Policy examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 July 2020. The reasons for the bill were presented by Rositsa Grudeva "Director of the Legal and Regulatory Activity Directorate" at the Ministry of Interior. The Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria on the full implementation of the requirements of Directive 2011/98/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 2011 on a uniform procedure for applying third-country nationals to a single residence and work permit in the territory of a Member State and on a common set of rights for third-country workers legally residing in a Member State aiming at establishing a single application procedure leading to a combined act involving a residence permit and a work permit in a single administrative act is necessary. Other provisions of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria which transpose Council Directive 2009/50/EC of 25 May 2009 on conditions for the entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of highly qualified employment and Directive 2014/36/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on conditions for the entry and stay of third-country nationals for the purpose of employment as seasonal workers should also be clarified. The provisions of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria relating to the Directive 2014/61/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on conditions for the entry and residence of third-country nationals in the framework of an intra-corporate transfer are also required to be clarified in the Bulgarian legislation with regard to the regulation of a single procedure for residence and work. The arrangements governing the conditions and arrangements under which students "third-country nationals who hold a valid residence permit issued by another Member State are entitled to mobility and may enter and reside in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria in order to conduct part of their studies at a higher school in the Republic of Bulgaria should also be refined by providing that the right of entry and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria can be exercised only on the basis of notification by the second Member State and not subject to an authorisation regime. The bill provides that students of third-country nationals who complete their education in the Republic of Bulgaria can continue to work in the country without having to leave its territory for the purpose of issuing a long-stay visa. The requirements to be met by a foreigner with authorised residence not less than one year in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria in order to be able to meet his family are currently regulated only in the Rules for the Implementation of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. In this regard, it is necessary to amend the procedure for the collection of a family to be regulated in the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. As regards the adopted Regulation (EU) 2019/115 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 amending Regulation (EC) No 810/2009 establishing a Community Visa Code (OJ L 188/25 of 12 July 2019) Action should be taken to synchronise national legislation with new amendments to the Visa Code and implementation of Schengen requirements. With the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, the necessary legislative amendments to the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria and the Law on the entry, residence and departure of the Republic of Bulgaria of the citizens of the European Union and the members of their families will be made with regard to the need to refine their individual provisions with a view to their practical application. The framework will be refined and the administrative burden will be reduced against highly qualified workers and seasonal workers......................................in relation to their residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria..................................................................... A harmonised approach will be introduced for issuing multiple visas for regular conscientious foreigners with a positive history of visas issued for a period gradually increasing from 1 to 5 years. On the basis of the discussion held and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy with 15 votes for the Foreign Affairs Committee with 15 votes for the Foreign Affairs Committee, without abstention and abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 002-01-31, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 July 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u77	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Mr. Veselinov, as an importer, will you take the floor? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u78	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will take account of the bill that the MPs from IMRO have introduced and which is part of our systematic approach to solving literally the problem of the collapse of the tourism industry due to a type of crisis. As you may remember, four basic proposals were made in this direction. Two of them have already been accepted to reduce value added tax and to finance charter flights. There are two left that we hope will be supported by this House. One is related to the creation of a system of vouchers for tourism and the second is related to electronic visas, with easy access of tourists from third countries to the Bulgarian market. In this regard, Bulgaria is at a very disadvantage because in practice the procedures for issuing visas by our direct competitors, such as Cyprus, Greece and other European countries, are extremely simplified. We can't compete with countries like Turkey at all, say, which is outside the European space, but we couldn't fix that. In any case, we can borrow from the experience of our competitors, and that is what we have done. In fact, we have borrowed the possibility of electronic visas, which has worked for years in the Republic of Cyprus. It provides for the possibility of remote application by tourists, filling in an electronic form and, respectively, a five-day response by the relevant consulate responsible for the specific area. The second part of our proposal is related to property owners. As you know, they are over 100,000 on the Bulgarian Black Sea coast, hundreds of thousands are in the rest of the country and for them we allow long-term residence based on the property. I have read with caution the opinions of the institutions. I have to tell you, I'm quite disappointed, because their approach is quite formal. In fact, we have some opinions that are clearly written in order to be negative. The most adventurous thing I can say is that it does not respond to our proposal, for example, to a procedure of one's own in the Law. It is clear that the Law is open and that if the proposal that we are making is adopted in principle and which will actually give serious breath to Bulgarian tourism, what is more, will give an opportunity for an attack on new markets and therefore for an exit from the crisis in which it is located, then the relevant national provisions in the legislation which are contrary to this text could also be changed. With regard to the eternal reference to Schengen area rules. Let us just remind ourselves that a species of epidemic has led each country to decide who it allows or does not in its territory, regardless of free movement, from other international treaties. As we know, Germany, France, Spain, Great Britain, Denmark, Greece and everyone else have limited their access to their own territory in an unprecedented way, so for us this is a very controversial argument in principle. However, even more controversial is the reference to European Union law, and according to these institutions our proposal is contrary to that right. We disagree with that conclusion. The bill tabled does not conflict with Regulation (EC) No 810/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a Community Code of Visas, or with any regulations which then change it. More than that, in art. 25 of the Regulation it is entitled "Signature of visas with limited territorial validity'. This provision has not been amended by any subsequent regulations. It provides several hypotheses for issuing visas with limited territorial validity by Member States, the first of which is where, for humanitarian reasons or national interest, I stress because we believe that we are in this situation, or because of international obligations, the State concerned considers it necessary to issue such visas. Paragraph 2 of that provision provides that a visa with limited territorial validity is valid for the territory of the Member State issuing it and may exceptionally be granted to other countries if they have previously given their consent. Of course, in this case, we inform the other Member States of the visas issued. In § 1 of art. 4 of the Visa Code, bodies involved in the procedures relating to applications, has been introduced the principle that applications are dealt with by consulates who take decisions on them. Paragraph 2 shall, by way of derogation from § 1, provide that at the external border of the Member States, border control authorities may examine and take decisions on applications in accordance with art. Art. 35 to Art. 36 and so on. The new Regulation 2019/1155 of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Regulation No 810/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe establishing a Community Code of Visa has established § 1a which provides that Member States may decide on visa applications to be examined and decisions to be taken by the central authorities. Because of these arguments, we believe that the proposed bill is not contrary to European regulations. Moreover, referring to this national interest, we can protect the creation of these electronic visas, because this state interest for us is indisputable and is linked to the need to overcome the adverse consequences of the pandemic. Let me remind you that 80% is the collapse of tourists arriving this summer in our resorts. Difficultly, these, for example, in the order of ten billion lost revenues will be compensated by domestic tourism. In fact, we are talking about over 300,000 jobs in the industry, and if we consider indirect employment, we are talking about people who produce food for example for these complexes, providing different services, probably jobs related directly or indirectly to this industry, are over one million. In this regard, I think that we should be considerably more flexible, not to approach civil servants and allow Bulgarian tourism to recover after the crisis. As for the comments that there is no way to take biometric data over the Internet, they can safely be taken at the border crossing points themselves. We know that there are countries that, besides fingerprints, scan retinas and so on. In this regard, my call to all MPs is to think nationally responsible, to take care of these hundreds of thousands of jobs and to support the introduction of this simplified way of accessing the Bulgarian tourist market of third-country individuals, and thus I think we will do a good deed in the direction of revival of the national economy.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u79	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. I'm opening the debates on the bills. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you are, Mrs. Klisurska. You can take off your mask when you talk.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u80	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! To our attention is the Bill, and I will take account of the Bill, which was introduced by the Council of Ministers, to amend and supplement the Law on Foreigners in Bulgaria. I don't know how many of you know this bill and its texts that are being offered to us. I do not know how many of you were listening to the reports that were presented by the relevant committees at the moment. But what impresses me is the extremely heavy and basic things that will be violated, related to Bulgarian labour law, with the texts that are offered to us in this bill, basic concepts that are currently being introduced through the Foreigners Act in the Republic of Bulgaria with the cover: we transpose a directive entirely. It's disturbing, ladies and gentlemen! It is disturbing because with these proposals under § 33 we are offered to remove the market test. This § 33 provides for the cancellation of Art. 33 7, para. 1, t. 1. And for those of you who do not know what a market test means, it is the employer's obligation to offer the job to the Bulgarian worker and then to do the demand for workers from third countries. Even when we adopted the law on labour migration and labour mobility, I think the systematic place of these proposals is there, because this is the specialized law, you know how liberalized the opportunities for hiring workers from third countries. At the moment, what we are being offered are those quotas where employers can employ workers in large enterprises, with quotas being 20% for hiring workers from third countries and 35% for employing workers in small and medium-sized enterprises. I do not know what economic reality you all live in, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, because we are currently in a completely different situation on the labour market. A radically different situation in which unemployed people only increased in the months of April, May, June, with 100,000 people. At the moment, with the proposals being made under this law, with the transposition of this directive, we say to the Bulgarian worker: we will look for workers from third countries because we can give them opportunities to work on a much lower, most likely, income that the Bulgarian workers would want. [[Noise and lines from OP.]] In the Committee on Labour and Social Policy, I hear the calls from the Chamber. In the Committee on Labour and Social Policy, the remark is made regarding the fact that the labour market currently needs labour and this labour must be provided by third parties. I wonder how with such an increase in unemployment the labour market needs?! It needs labour precisely for those sectors where people and Bulgarian workers receive low incomes, low wages. On the day yesterday, a reply was received to a question by our MP about the incomes and income levels of the Bulgarian workers, 70% of them received close to the minimum wage. And here are these texts that we are currently adopting, we are creating the possibility of hiring people from third countries to work with low incomes, under poor working conditions, because I will bring you back on yesterday, when the first reading has passed the amendments to the Labour Code, which we have introduced into certain sectors during the collective labour negotiations, most likely these will be texts that will pass at second reading, we have made a proposal that the sum totaled calculation of working time will be within a 12-month period and that people will work 56 hours a month, to work with a smaller weekly rest. Well, here they are, the workers from third countries that we will call on, and all Bulgarian workers precisely because of these conditions that we create in Bulgarian legislation will not want to work. What are the other changes proposed by these texts under the Foreigners Act in Bulgaria? Texts which regulate the right of a third-country worker to register as an unemployed person and to use intermediary services shall be revoked. The possibility of withdrawing or refusing to renew the Blue Card shall be revoked. These texts fully comply with the European directives. Why are we doing this? Why are the changes in these texts? Inconclusive is also the text that is regulated in art. 9, para. 1, t. 13. This text is serious and is related to the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility. We're introducing a volunteering institute. And I ask the question by referring to the Youth Act: well this is a disguised form of employment. We all know how many penal decrees and procedures there are at the moment for such volunteers, but with these texts, which we will now vote on, you will most likely support them, because I see the reports and how the vote in the competition committees has happened here is another opportunity for hidden employment or for any third party to work. These are basic rights of Bulgarian labour law. Why, ladies and gentlemen, are we running them over? Why do we do this with the justification that we transpose a European directive? I will say one more thing, and I will end this, and I hope that you will at least read the opinions of all organizations and trade unions with regard to these texts, pay attention to them, and I hope that these texts will drop at second reading. Currently every Bulgarian employer, when he has to hire workers from third countries, owes a fee and this fee is dropped. And it is related to the administrative costs that are ultimately incurred for the employment of these workers, and when in the reasons you point out that there will be no financial costs, well that is revenue for our country, revenue for effective administrative management. Again, I call: although we introduce the regulations of the directive and introduce a single procedure for the work and residence of foreigners in Bulgaria, let us not violate the Bulgarian labour law, let us give priority and security to the Bulgarian workers, who, in the context of this economic crisis, which is coming, which is deepening, need our support. Therefore, our parliamentary group will not support the proposals made so, and I hope that at second reading you will do so, and even now. With regard to the bill submitted by Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs, I would say that we have been familiar with the opinions of the relevant departments, which ultimately comment on the European procedures related to visa policies, and in this regard we will also abstain on the draft law submitted by you. [[Noise and lines from OP.]] Once again, I call for reason and for you to read what you are currently accepting, because very, very, very often it seems to me that a large part of the MPs sitting on their banks do not understand what they are voting on, and this shows irresponsible attitude towards all Bulgarian citizens. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u81	Please respect your colleagues. The line, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u82	Mr. Chairman! Ms. Zhekova, you cannot vote or not vote because the BSP parliamentary group is not in the Chamber, so it is not defining at all. [[Laughter and applause from OP.]] You seem to be doing the party dramas again inside your party, which is your problem, of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u83	The essence of the speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u84	I'm the man. They said they wouldn't vote, but they wouldn't vote if they didn't, in the sense of supporting us. Whatever. The question is your opinion of the parliamentary group that you have expressed. I hope it is only yours and not the entire parliamentary group on the bill submitted by Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. That is, you said that you trust the Bulgarian institutions and bodies that you want your resignation in general and this government, which is also strange. And the weirdest thing is that BSP is suddenly giving up the fact that it wants relief for a Russian citizen or citizen of the Russian Federation to visit Bulgaria under a light regime. We have proposed precisely for foreigners such relief, which concerns the Russian Federation. That is, you are pretending to be Russophiles, you are talking about Russia, and when it comes to helping really Bulgarian tourism, the Bulgarian economy and ordinary Russian citizens to come to Bulgaria, who have properties in Bulgaria that visit Bulgaria for tourism purposes, you say that you will not support this proposal. I don't understand the logic of the BSP.! In front of one, in front of the other, in another way. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u85	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Are there any other lines? I don't see anyone who wants to. Are you going to use a hole? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u86	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Angelov, honourable colleagues! I'll only take part of what you said. The other things are populism and I won't go into detail. [[Audience in OP.]] Why does the BSP parliamentary group not see the point of sitting in this Chamber and voting on such proposals? The BSP parliamentary group is currently voting with the legs because what is offered to us, the quality of Bulgarian legislation and the addition that we have all become, to the executive authority I am talking about you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, delegate this National Assembly a long time ago. It is for this reason that this part of the Chamber is not full enough. With regard to other texts. No, we do not trust the Bulgarian institutions. When we look at the relevant bills in committees, we get acquainted with all the accompanying Bulgarian and European legislation and then we make our decisions, so we do not trust the Bulgarian institutions, but the European and Bulgarian legislation, which we believe we should all follow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u87	Thank you. I just couldn't figure out how you vote with your feet? A monkey can do this thing, man. It's hard. [[Laughter and excitement in OP.]] I think so, I don't know. Are there any other statements on the submitted bills? Here you are, Mr. Sirakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u88	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will speak with regard to the bill submitted by the Council of Ministers. Yes, of course, the term "market test" has dropped out, but only as a term. If you look at art. 24, para. 5 points 4 to 13 are all requirements currently available in a market test: to do market research, to make a justification, to make a motivation why a Bulgarian citizen cannot be appointed and required to hire a third-country national. In addition, the market test and so far exists only in the procedure for single residence and work permit. When it existed on the blue card and subsequently dropped out, we see that at the moment there is no such drama and the market has not been filled with third-country citizens. In addition, there is also the quota number, as has been said, so because of the conditions laid down in art. 24and, because of the quota principle, there is no way that Bulgarian workers and employees can suffer from the entry of foreign workers from third countries. This bill has a clear objective and it is a clarification of authorisation procedures. This will result in three results: having a Single Administrative Document, a Single Residence and Work Authorisation, having later deadlines and dropping fees. Because of these things, we intend to support the bill. Furthermore, to the current situation with the COVID, which is used so much, I do not think that the market will be filled with foreigners from third countries, as the movement of labour is too limited at this time. Finally, in conclusion, only who was not an employer does not know that much better work is done with Bulgarian citizens than with foreigners from third countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u89	Thank you, Mr. Sirakov. Are there any lines? I won't. Procedure in the manner of conduct..... please, Mrs. Slavova. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u90	Dear Mr. Simeonov, this is not the first time you have allowed yourself in this hall from the stand, as chairman, to humiliate women MPs. [[Laughter and excitement in OP.]] Now you've done it... Colleagues from GERB, ten days ago this happened to your colleague Milena Damyanova and you did not get up to protect her. Now he's doing it with his colleague Klisurska. Dear Mr. Chairman, if you ever again allow yourself to humiliate a lady in this Chamber, I will personally initiate a request for your resignation on behalf of the women's deputies.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u91	Thank you, Mrs. Slavova. I will use my right to speak as a host, as the procedure is in the manner of conduct. In no way have I allowed myself to insult or humiliate my esteemed Mrs. Klisurska. I merely paid attention to expressions that humiliate all MPs. It was said by the stand that the MPs of BSP voted with their feet. It's insulting to them, and I just entered my role as a host so I wouldn't let... I'm sorry I didn't do it at the time of the pronouncement. Are there any other statements? I can't see. I'm calling off the debate. I put to the vote a bill supplementing the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 054-01-38, submitted by Iskren Vasilev Veselinov and a group of MPs on 4 May 2020. They voted 99 MPs: 20, against 1, abstention 78. [[Relation of lines between MPs from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Please keep order in the court! Please, repeat, remain silent in this room! If you have something to say, go to the person you want to say it to, don't shout from across the hall. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 002 01-31, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 July 2020. Voted 103 MPs: 87, against 4, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New requests for the period from 25 September 2020 to 1 October 2020 are not available. Written responses were received from: - Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov on a question from the MPs Stoyan Mirchev, Yavor Bojankov and Anton Kutev; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the MPs Georgi Gokov and Veska Nencheva; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Christian Vigenin. In today's parliamentary control will be the first to answer questions Finance Minister Kiril Ananiev. A question from the National Representative Nikolay Tishev about the financial support of the municipalities in Bulgaria. Mr. Tishev, I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u92	Dear Minister, municipal budgets are one of the most affected by the economic consequences caused by the pandemic by the coronavirus. For the most part, local authorities resorted to intra-compete changes related to cost reduction and updating of reduced budget revenues. This mainly affected the social costs and capital programs of the Bulgarian municipalities. At the same time, a number of regulations of the Council of Ministers allocate funds. Just as an example: for the months August and September, "56 million. lv. under the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry to improve the liquidity of farmers; 379 million lv. for modernization of 69 km from the road Vidin "Botevgrad; 100 million lv. For student dormitories; 30 million lv. to help farmers who grow animals, bees and so on and so forth. This shows that the budget has a free resource, which is allocated by decrees of the Council of Ministers, outside the State Budget Act last year and its update since spring of this year. In this regard, my questions to you are: does the Ministry of Finance provide for financial support to the Bulgarian municipalities free of charge or retribution, such as practices in the past in similar economic and financial crises? How will this support be implemented and when, since the financial resources are needed by municipalities now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u93	Mr. Minister, please respond within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u94	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tishev, your question is extremely important. I would like to give a full and comprehensive answer, so I will ask you within the five minutes, and I can use both minutes for the duplicate, so that we do not break, as the President said, the rules laid down in the National Assembly, to give this complete and comprehensive answer. We have already entered the last quarter of this budget year, which is expected to, for the most part, to pass under the conditions of a pandemic situation. The development of the Coronavirus pandemic has forced the government to rearrange its priorities during the year, focusing its efforts on making legislative changes in order to limit and overcome its consequences. A number of urgent measures have been taken and implemented to improve the business environment, on the one hand, and to assist the citizens affected by the virus, on the other. As is known, the government has developed and been approved by the MPs several legal provisions to support the efforts of local authorities to finance the costs of implementing the identified anti-epidemic measures, such as at the expense of transfers submitted by 20 January 2020 for winter maintenance and snow cleaning of municipal roads and up to 30 percent of the funds accumulated by municipalities for the collections under the Waste Management Act can be redirected the means to counter the effects of the crisis. Paragraph 38 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Health Act approved a provision under which the Minister of Finance, until the end of 2020, has the possibility to grant interest-free loans to municipalities for the implementation of anti-epidemic measures in the territory of the municipality or temporary cash disruptions in the budget of the municipality as a result of the reduced collection of property tax, vehicle tax and municipal waste tax compared to the same period of 2019 at the expense of the central budget with a period of refund no longer than the end of 2021. For your information, the difference between the payments of accrued liabilities for the current year of those two taxes and charges at the last reference period "August 31' and payments by the same indicators at the same period of 2019 is positive at national level. This means that a large part of the municipalities have managed to catch up due to the various circumstances caused by the pandemic, and therefore loans on the basis of this legal provision have not been granted. PMS No 176 of 31 July 2020 provided municipalities with an additional 24.6 million. lv. in relation to the government's package of new socio-economic measures in 2020 to increase the standards of 1 August for state delegated activities, for school and children's healthcare and health offices, to reach the rates of remuneration set by the collective employment contract in the....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u95	Get it over with, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Tishev, a line? I hope you will also provide your reply in writing to Mr. Tishev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u96	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! I have heard some of the measures, but they are basically: on the one hand, you are allowing municipalities to allocate their own revenues, on the other hand, I have heard that 26 million have been allocated to all municipalities, which to 6 and a half million people in the municipalities of the Republic of Bulgaria do not know how much they have helped them. After all, my expectation was to find out what a grant would be granted to the municipalities. Because loans are clear, and before there was an opportunity, as was with the crisis for KTB, then also interest-free loans were granted to municipalities, but anyway, they have to repay them. Otherwise, I am glad that you are also aware that the Bulgarian municipalities are perhaps the public institutions in the country, which are most affected financially by the crisis and my expectations were that the Ministry of Finance will react much faster to this financial collapse in them. I accept that you are indeed recently a minister of finance, but on the other hand, I think you have one of the longest experience and expertise as a financier and budget manager in this ministry. In conclusion, I hope and expect quick and adequate action to help the Bulgarian municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u97	Thank you, Mr. Tishev. Mr. Minister, you can finish your exhibition if you want.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u98	By decrees of the Council of Ministers were granted an additional 136 million. Three hundred thousand. lv. to a number of sites of the social and technical infrastructure of municipalities to improve the quality of their lives. In this year, the Ministry of Finance granted interest-free loans to municipalities amounting to a total of 18,8 million. lv. According to the Public Finance Act, of which 10.3 million in connection with temporary cash disruptions on their budgets and 8.5 million. lv. for the purpose of implementing the plan for the financial recovery of municipalities with financial difficulties. Although some municipal delegated activities during the period of the emergency were not fully operational, the Ministry of Finance continued to provide the transfers for the ongoing funding of the activities delegated by the State in accordance with the deadlines laid down by the State Budget Act for 2020 in order to guarantee the remuneration of the persons employed therein. The COVID-19 pandemic has put all the medical facilities, including municipal ones, facing serious challenges, including financial ones. In order to assist medical institutions, the government adopted two decrees. PMS No 173 of 31 July 2020 to approve additional expenditure on the budget of the Ministry of Health provided an additional 6 million. lv. for medical establishments in remote and difficult to access areas. These are 72 municipal hospitals. In total, in the annual plan, the funds for this category of municipal hospitals amount to 36.7 million. lv. With the amendment of Ordinance No 3 of 2019 the Ministry of Health increased by 10% the payment of part of the activities under the Regulation for hospitals in remote and difficult areas, which are mainly municipal. In this regard, PMS No 198 of 2020 the government approved an additional 9.6 million. lv. under the budget of the Ministry of Health for subsidization of state and municipal medical establishments, to maintain the readiness of clinics and wards of infectious diseases to carry out medical activities in the spread of infectious diseases, including COVID-19. The scope of the new activity includes 11 municipal establishments with an existing structure of infectious diseases. In addition, the Ministry of Health, in the implementation of the project "Support of workers in the healthcare system under the conditions of public health threat by the CIVID-19" has concluded contracts to finance additional remuneration for medical and non-medical personnel directly involved in monitoring, diagnosis and treatment of patients with proven coronavirus, with 41 municipal hospital care facilities. For the period from March to August 2020, this is BGN 1000. Net remuneration was also granted to municipalities 10 million. 200,000. lv. Additional funds will be provided for municipal schools for disinfectants and for financing activities related to anti-epidemic measures. The assessment of the possibilities for additional financial support of municipalities for the remaining time by the end of the year largely depends on the report on the implementation of the main budgetary indicators for the nine months, on which an analysis will be drawn for the expected implementation of the state budget for 2020. These estimates will be ready at the end of this month and then I will be able to introduce you to the specific opportunities for support of the municipalities. So far, the Ministry of Finance has received requests from municipalities for more than 600 million. lv. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u99	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question is to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Mrs. Desislava Taneva, who will answer the questions of the National Representative Svetla Marinova Bachvarova, Georgi Stoilov, Daniel Yordanov, Dobrin Danev, Nikolay Boshkilov, Rumen Georgiev, Tsvetan Topchiev, Nikolay Penev regarding the provision of conditions for normal operation of autumn seeding in basic grain processing areas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u100	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, in 2020 in major grain production areas of the country, as a result of unremembered drought, have been found, and are a fact, serious problems with the yields, respectively with the production of major agricultural crops for the country. In the current year in 10 districts of the country, including Dobrich, Varna, Burgas, Sliven, Yambol, Shumen, Targovishte, Silistra, Razgrad and Ruse, there have been significantly lower yields compared to the average for the respective district for the last five years. The decrease in yield ranges from nearly 70% for the region of Dobrich, for example. All these areas fall into northeastern and southeastern Bulgaria. Crops of wheat of about 70 kg per decare, corn about 300, sunflower 180, have been reported. Of course, this is not final information, as the corn harvesting and sunflower campaign is not over, but here are also seen 50% lower yields based on the last five years. The data are for medium yield for the area. On 9 September 2020, a regular meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Food was held at which farmers from the most affected regions were heard. They said this year is extremely difficult for farmers from different areas. In view of the low yields, there are serious concerns about the upcoming autumn sowing. They also shared that the funds intended to solve the problems with the COVID-19 pandemic are not available to them for certain reasons or the conditions are such that they cannot cover them. In this regard, we ask you: what are the most affected areas of the land in the country in 2020, and what is the analysis of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry for the real situation? How will the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry provide conditions for the normal operation of autumn sowing in these areas, given that many farmers are experiencing serious difficulties in providing financial resources for the conduct of agri-technical events? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u101	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Madam Minister, you have five minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u102	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Yordanov and MPs who asked the question in your statement You quoted data that are public on the Ministry of Agriculture and Food website, including the public The report of the Agricultural Academy, which is uploaded, where for everything that has been completed at the time as harvest, the data on average yields and their reduction compared to the average yields for the last 5 years, and where there is less reduction, and somewhere even an increase. Those are the facts. In the district of Dobrich, the average yield of wheat is 68% compared to the last five years, Varna.......... Sliven.......................................................................... The analysis of agrometeorological data in the districts with the greatest negative deviation of wheat yields in 2020 shows that they have been obtained as a result of a combination of the following factors: extremely insufficient precipitation during the autumn-winter period and deepening drought to the entry of crops into economic maturity, high average daily absolute temperatures during the winter months, reversible frosts in the event of the occurrence of a rolling phase, intense precipitation in wax maturity. The picture is complicated except by accumulation of many types of stress and by interaction with technological solutions, the variety composition. In the public talk posted on the site of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests, you can get acquainted with the other indicators during the whole period of crop development, such as moisture storage, such as temperature and everything else that objectively justifies the amount of yield received. With regard to corn and sunflower, the harvest is not over yet. All operational data available for the autumnals will be published, will also be available for the springers. That's where we move with an average yield of sunflowers - 202 kg of decare according to the operational data from two days ago. With the corn, the harvest is further back, there is more time until the end. Sunflower is coming to an end, there is a decrease compared to the average yield from last year is moving about 25% between 25% and 28%. We'll see in the finals, as more than 30% of the areas are still coming home. Areas are coming home where the average yields are good and are relevant to last year. So I think that this reduction will be compensated there. With regard to the second question, the directions for financial support under the State aid line for farmers, the concession aid for fallen areas. This year they will be the most compared to the last five. This aid to be granted amounts to 4,67 million. lv. I'm saying, after all, a preliminary calculation, that's how much our ceiling is. We expect the Managing Board of the Fund to vote on 8 October 2020. The calculations are done, the protocols have been processed for nearly 143,000 failed. eka areas, the main of which are from the land of cereals. This aid will be paid within the month, and the decision will be made next week. With regard to ensuring the use of quality crop material in crop farming. This aid was also granted at the amount of 1.2 million. lv. Support for participation in the Quality Scheme for the production of seed and seed-producing material. Investment support supposed to be 18,6 million lv. There the budget was also open, it was also available to grain producers. State aid in the form of tax clothing. It is expected this year to take the form of a total of around 40 million. lv. The relief for excise duty. In practice, the reception is over and we expect payment. The budget amounts to 84 million. lv. borrowing something that we have done in addition to the known support measure we have allocated resources in times more...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u103	Set your course for completion.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u104	...15 million. BGN, interest rate "2%," and three times increased the rate of decare, which can be used by farmers. of decare total seeds and mineral fertilisers. Support under the COVID-19 Rural Development Programme. Nearly 900 applications under COVID 2 are practically from the sector affected by the drought for support. Finally, we are currently doing calculations, communicating with industry organisations, and State aid will also be provided for land compensation where they are below 80% and will not be included in the compensation aid for 100% of the fallen areas.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Taneva. Right to two additional questions. Will it be you, Mrs. Bachvarova? Here you go. I pay attention to you and to the other MPs who have not put on their masks to put them on because you are setting a bad example. Currently, the meeting is broadcast on the Bulgarian National Television.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u106	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, it is no accident that the accent we are putting is the problem that appears in the country with the upcoming autumn campaign. The reasons for this to be a major focus in our questioning is the fact that the farms concerned did not expect or receive the financial resources and income that normally each year enable them to carry out their activities unimpeded, to obtain seeds and also to carry out the agri-technical activities. The reason, you said, is a clear picture of the unprecedented drought, the climatic factors that have affected low yields, and the investments and costs are still made. All these farmers in the areas concerned work on the basis of a reported loss precisely because of the low yields received. You said about a financial package. We think he's insufficient and messy. There is no system in its supply so that indeed we can provide 11 million this year. Dka seeded with wheat. The additional questions we have for you are in the following direction: can the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry be mobilised to provide direct payments per unit of area for 2020 within this and next month, and not as normally done by the end of December, because this is important given the situation we are in and it is exceptional? Secondly, how adequate is the information that you have with regard to stocks of basic cereals? The reason I ask this question is that there are serious doubts as to whether the stocks of old crops that are in wheat, barley, maize are correct, given that the market situation is so dynamic that there is doubt about the quantities that are reported in terms of operational balances and they are published on the Ministry of Agriculture's website. The third question is...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u107	You are entitled to two questions!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u108	I'm done. Are there talks with the Ministry of Finance about the deferral of the pre-tax profit since 2019? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u109	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Madam Minister, please answer two of the three questions. If you wish to answer all three, you can answer two of the questions under the Rules of Procedure. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u110	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Professor Bachvarova, back and forth on answers. Yes, all the information about medium yields and stocks and agrometeorological conditions provided by the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology is available on the website of the Ministry of Agriculture. I firmly confirm that the data on the stocks of cereals are reliable information, because the data on trade, on exports, on intra-Community supplies are also taken from other control bodies without which such movements cannot pass. So the data on the quantities traded were practically detected together with other authorities. The export rate of wheat, as the main export material, is significantly lower and last week was nearly 60% lower than in the previous year. In practice, we are currently becoming at the levels of last marketing year. There is clearly a cereal raw material that is sufficient for the provision of domestic bread needs, for feed, including we are already in a situation where the rate of export may not be like the last three months because its strong decrease in practically catching up quantities. At the moment, about 1 million. Three hundred thousand. The tons were somewhere, but I'm still talking about data from the previous week, less exported quantity at a million and a half less yield. So we as a marketing year and stock management are already at almost the same levels as the past marketing year. However, all production, which is according to operational data, is more than 4.6 million. the tone, along with the transitional stock, is quite enough to feed, and you know it very well. The second question is in relation to the deferred tax. The way in which this support is applied has been notified State aid. We have asked the question, and even this is what I talked to the Finance Minister about when I came in here, is it possible to make the necessary investments in order to make use of this forward tax about 40 million expected this year to be postponed by a year? It depends on whether we could receive such a notification, such communication is being conducted. On the first question back and forth, I think it was in common with financial resources. Professor Bachvarova, let me disagree. This year's financial support is not usual, it is significantly more than last year. You're a specialist on the subject, so you know very well. We made a transfer of 70 million. Euros to the package Direct payments and it will start its payment after 16 October. This suggests an average increase in rates of about 9%. The demimis, which is to be given for falling areas below 80%, COVID 2, 21.2.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... lv. This is all gonna work out this year. For lending the unit rate per decare has been increased three times to ensure the campaign.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u111	Get it over with!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u112	Yeah, just to answer that. The payment schedule, the indicative schedule, is uploaded to the site. In relation to the COVID-19 pandemic and the land needs, the Ministry of Agriculture opened many new measures. They all pay off right away, every week. The system for payment and authorisation of payments works and money is paid. Any change in the indicative schedule that is uploaded would mean stopping other payments. In addition, the payment earlier to the basic base rate meant asking for a notice of considerably less in time early payment and paying much less. That's how we'll pay it in the indicative schedule within the period it's indicated, but we'll pay the whole payment.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u113	Thank you, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u114	And we will not stop payment of any other scheme, which has been launched overtime more than 10 new support schemes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u115	Thank you. Will you take your response within two minutes? You have two minutes to respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u116	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, most of the funds in farmers were based really on the consequences of COVID. But here we are talking about the problems with land, not just about the grain producers, but also about all the other sectors, because even where there was a possibility of irrigation, it did not happen because water for irrigation was limited. The whole sector was affected by the whole country by the fact that during the months of December there was drought and then in those ten areas we are talking about, this drought led to extremely low yields. According to the Ministry's information, 6.3 million were affected. decare with wheat, which represents 58% of the area, and 660 thousand. decare with barley, which is 57%. If those farmers who have a reduction in income due to this particular situation cannot carry out their activities in this autumn, we may indeed have a problem with these numbers, which are common in Bulgaria, and there has never been a problem to reach their values. I would like to focus on several issues such as an assessment of the overall activity, which is related to the risk of adverse climatic conditions, which is to be taken into account in the work of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, which has not taken place in the last four years as talks. Firstly, the Guarantee Fund was not implemented and was not implemented. Three or four years of talking, and now it's been transferred to the next one or two. Instead of implementing this fund, it is in these cases that the funds under the Rural Development Programme have been transferred to the Fund, which is not the same because it is a credit and will eventually become a bank credit. A irrigation strategy has been developed. This strategy of the World Bank was not adopted by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, sits somewhere on the desks and does not apply, but something new did not appear in its place. It is true that you have opened the Irrigation Measure, but from conversations with the irrigation associations, they have not had the opportunity to take advantage of it. Thirdly, I believe that there is insufficient use of the country's scientific potential for the simple reason that you are now looking for information and opportunities for technological deadlines, but this is a continuous process in which the scientific community must be involved. For example, the creation of a crisis seed fund is one of the opportunities that can be realized in the system of the Agricultural Academy. This question was quite well-intentioned, with the aim of paying attention to the issue, because in the coming years, climate change is also the ones that will be an extremely big challenge for the sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u117	Thank you. The next question to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Mrs. Desislava Taneva is from the MPs Violeta Jeleva and Svetla Bachvarova on illegal timber production. Here you go, Mrs. Jeleva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u118	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, the destruction of the Bulgarian forest is among the most significant environmental problems. Every day in Bulgaria is cut down a forest the size of several football fields. Illegal mining is of threatening size according to research by non-governmental organizations. In addition to damaging the state budget, illegal logging deprives long-term areas of forest and drinking water. The destruction of forests and the cutting of timber has severe consequences and there is little talk about this problem, but it is global because the drying is large. Unusually low yields in the most fertile lands. For this happened a few moments ago and a question in the previous question prompt serious thoughts on the topic of conservation of the Bulgarian forest. The control system in place should limit illegal logging to a minimum, but this is not happening. One problem I also want to share from Haskovo region, from which I am a Member of the National Assembly, there are also forests of municipal property. Despite the mixed ownership of these forests, it is the Forest Executive Agency's duty to exercise control. But from the conversations I have had, it becomes clear, despite the checks that you do on a daily basis, that this control is rather fictitious. Therefore, Madam Minister, our question to you is: what is the volume of illegal timber production in the country according to the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry? Accordingly, what organisational and financial measures has the Ministry taken to address this problem, and what are the results? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u119	Thank you, Mrs. Jeleva. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u120	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. MP! Your first question about the volume and data we have. For 2019 illegal wood has been found, including illegal logging, transport, storage, disposal of wood and others, anything that is not regulated in the amount of 18 451 dense cubes. m. For the period 2016 - 2019 a reduction of 7731 dense cube is reported. m. By 27 September 2020, as a result of the preventive control carried out by the Executive Agency for Forests and Public Enterprises, more than 11 thousand infringements of the applicable regulatory framework have been identified, including 8800 dense cubes. m. wood, which is the subject of illegal logging, transport or storage, and are the acts drawn up. I'm not reading here, there's a lot of statistics on confiscated assets. The second question. The following more important actions have been taken within the framework of the funds laid down in the State Budget Act under the budget programme. A series of agreements and contacts improved the interaction and exchange of information between the institutions involved in preventing and revealing legal actions in the forestry territories, concluded cooperation contracts with the Ministry of Interior, the NRA, the Customs Agency, the Executive Agency of Automobile Administration and the Executive Agency of the Ministry of Labour. Excellent cooperation has been demonstrated and appreciated in the course of the operation in 2020 in a number of European countries, with a view to illegal logging and transportation of wood, which is subject to import, export and intra-Community supplies. The Republic of Bulgaria shall fully comply with the provisions of the legally binding Agreement on the prevention of trade in illegally harvested wood. Electronic systems are built and maintained for the issue of permitted logging and transport tickets. Ongoing control is implemented through a continuous video surveillance system of the entrances and exits of the objects under art. 206 of the Forest Act. Following changes to the Forests Act in 2016, ongoing controls are being carried out on the transport of round wooden materials through the requirement that freight vehicles carrying out the transport are equipped with tracking devices for their movement. As amended by Regulation No 1 it is possible to access the data from the GPS devices of cargo vehicles. This happened in 2020. The web site of the Forest Executive Agency provides access to the licenses issued for logging vehicles tickets to all interested parties. In coordination mode with stakeholders are all forestry activities from which the forest management system begins in practice from resource assessment to the design of the relevant forestry intervention, by type and volume, according to the condition of the plantings and restrictive regimes in the respective territory. All forestry plans shall be coordinated with the local communities and with the mayors of municipalities. To date, half of the state forests have been certified "58 per cent, providing additional external independent control guaranteeing their sustainable management. In comparison, in 2014 the share of certified state forests was only 18%. An organization has been established...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u121	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u122	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, you were interrupted just as the question was answered. But anyway, I think that this issue is important, and many analyses of experts show that this is a problem that cannot be ignored, left behind and that we need to work continuously in this direction. The same experts in reports and conferences say that the most common violation of wood mining is in terms of whether there are control marks and the transport of wood without transport tickets respectively. In this regard, however, I would like to clarify a question relating to the transport of wood. It is true that on the site of the Forest Executive Agency there is a software enabling it to verify whether the vehicle that you see has a permit for the transport of wood respectively. On my trips to Northern Bulgaria, which are almost continuous, I must tell you that I do not have a case in which I insert information about the vehicle and the trailer, respectively, that I have information that this truck has a legitimate transport ticket. The reasons say: the system is jamming because many enter, simultaneously enter the transport tickets or there is no Internet and therefore we cannot see it in real time, and in two or three hours it can be realized and this check can be done. The additional question to this module, which is not bad, but does not work, does not work: what is the effectiveness of this system? Are investments made to maintain it and to update its software? Because without this software, we don't really have the picture of the process of transporting the wood now being carried out.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u123	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u124	And second question...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u125	You have no right to question me. You're entitled to a line right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u126	The line yes, and I have a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u127	You have no right to question, you have the right to disagree...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u128	Oh, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u129	...in essence of speech. That's the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u130	Since it didn't end after all...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u131	No, it's over. I do not agree with your findings because it has moved on to general statistics on the range of forests under the control of the measures and were listed.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u132	I understand, that's your understanding...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u133	I'm sorry, but get it over with.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u134	But I think the subject is important to everyone. And the situation of paying the labor of inspectors occupied with control. It can be seen that there are unemployed jobs due to low pay and from now on this function can be considered not to be carried out effectively, provided that there is no interest in its implementation. Thank you. I believe that the Rules should be read by everyone.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u135	Thank you. Madam Minister, you have the right to a duplicate if you wish to use it in relation to the disagreement that the GPS control system is not functioning. Actually, that was the disagreement in the line. The other was questions you didn't have to answer. I'm sorry. That's not asking.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u136	Thank you. Allow me to disagree with the conclusion that the system is not working. There may be problems somewhere, as with all such systems sometimes occurs, but these information systems are supported by businesses and not only supported, but in communication with stakeholders and a clear need they are built up and built up. So if there are proposals in this direction, surely the relevant authorities in the system are ready to hear you and improve these systems. In the last few years, many additions have indeed been made in order to make more public about the possibility of civilian control. With regard to the second question for inspectors and for payment, I think that was, you know, yes, wages are still lower. With the opportunities that the annual budget voted out allows us, we increase income every year. That's what we plan for next year. Let me just say, as I failed in the first part to say that there are orders from this year as well as from February 2020, and now from 30 September 2020, as regards the limitation of logging and the use of forestry plans. Only one figure I will give is that for 2020 we have not yet reached 80% of the implementation of the forestry plans and will certainly in this year be at least the use in relation to the existing plans that are adopted, I say, in a long procedure, agreed with the local communities and with the management of these communities and other control bodies.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u137	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We move on to the question to the Minister of Environment and Water Mr. Emil Dimitrov, who will ask the people representative Ivan Valentinov Ivanov about exposed hazardous waste in the land of Shumen municipality. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u138	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Mr. Minister, Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, the topic of hazardous waste is extremely serious and up-to-date, unfortunately, recently in our society, and because of the fact that we are already finding them everywhere and for unclear reasons. The question I am asking you today concerns the electoral area in which I am elected and in which you have been elected as Minister and as MP and also have a commitment to the Shumen Election Region, Mr. Dimitrov. In this regard, due to information published by the prosecution that hazardous waste was found in the land of Shumen Municipality - 750 tonnes, please answer: what hazardous waste were discovered, where exactly in the land of Shumen Municipality? What measures were taken to protect the population of Shumen municipality? Because this is how the information came out and with the information blackout, which is subsequently available after the release of these data from the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office, people are worried, worried there were dozens of calls, meetings with citizens who hold and insist on finding out whether they are protected by all standards and whether there is a danger to their lives and health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u139	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Dimitrov, please come in and answer this dangerous question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u140	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, you, as a longtime resident of Shumen, could also help very much in terms of pesticides, tell us where they were buried in 1982 to go dig them up so that these tens of thousands of citizens who called you would not be concerned. But your question is specifically answered. Information has been received from the Regional Waste Management Control Inspectorate at the checks carried out in the region of Shumen in 2020. We have also asked the municipality of Shumen because it has the relevant powers under the Waste Management Act. According to the response received by the municipality of Shumen there, we are informed that they have not found any unauthorised storage of hazardous waste in the territory of the municipality of Shumen. I can tell you that 54 planned and exceptional checks were carried out in 2020 on sites located in the territory that generate and/or operate hazardous waste storage. No infringements have been detected in the verified checks. However, a practice continues to create illegal landfills by some mayors, mainly on state territory or forest fund, so that the state can then clean up for the third time the money is being paid for the closure of existing landfills, the creation of regional landfills, shredders to them and then it turns out that either the old ones resume, unknown from who..... maybe someone from Sofia carries the waste there, and no one knows that all municipal trucks go and land in the forest, then someone has to go to the country mostly because they are already on state land, to clean up. We have cases where mayors create them, mostly in protected areas. According to a request from the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria, pre-trial proceedings were carried out on depots located in former careers. Then explosions, collapses, flooding, cover-ups were made, for the results of which relevant documents, protocols and expertise were drawn up. Without the consent of a monitoring prosecutor, respectively to an investigator, no one has the right to disclose information on a pre-trial proceeding. Personally, I wasn't interested in the results of the checks. I have been fully cooperative and I have given the appropriate orders so that people can do their job, as follows, in the territory not only of Shumen, but of the whole country. Almost every time I attend personally with the relevant Supreme Prosecutor, who is from the Supreme Administrative Office or from the Cassation Prosecutor's Office, or a investigator or prosecutor from the Special Prosecutor's Office. You can ask the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria to answer if you consider it necessary, but without their consent I have no right to even say that it is on trial to give such information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u141	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ivanov, will you express your dissent in substance through a line? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u142	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! I really don't understand you, Minister of Environment and Water, or are you just taking the place and waiting for the prosecution to pick you up one day? Because my information, which I refer to here and ask my question, is based on an official message from the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria, which says that 750 tons of waste were found in the land of Shumen municipality. You are telling me that neither the municipality of Shumen nor the RIEW, nor you have any idea what this is about!? Do you work in this ministry or somewhere else? The citizens and residents of Shumen...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u143	Treat the Minister with respect!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u144	...want to find out what's going on, where are these hazardous waste, is their lives and health threatened? Because the moment you hide that information, you're committing a crime, too. You must say what measures your ministry has taken to protect the residents of Shumen municipality. Because it says directly in the message from the prosecutor's office: in the land of the municipality of Shumen. I'm either reading wrong, or the D.A.'s office is giving out incorrect information. At least say what measures you took if you don't want to say who and what, the prosecution very accurately and clearly wrote it. The pesticides you started with are your business. In 1982, I was on the school bench, Mr. Dimitrov. You were a little bit older than me, so you can explain where those pesticides are. But let's get back to the point. We very much want to know because the noisy public is extremely worried, where are these wastes, and what do you do to protect them? Are there any guards, are there no guards, are they being taken out of there, are they not being taken out of there? You can give at least superficial data, because really people are worried. Again I say to you: You have been elected from this area as a Member of the National Assembly and at least you have a commitment to those who voted for you to answer them what you are doing for them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u145	Treat the ministers with respect, as well as your colleagues. Are you going to use a hole? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u146	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ivanov, how was it? I didn't say anything, but I'll say it again. In pre-trial proceedings, information may be provided to anyone only with the consent of the investigating prosecutor and investigator. When you read the D.A.'s message, you should've announced it on all the media and channels you wanted, you didn't have to say it here. You should have read it here, no one would have stopped you. What I can say and I will repeat it: I have given every kind of assistance not only there, in the whole country, in Ruse, in Pleven, in Red Beach, in Lom, in Plovdiv, and in Pazardzhik, wherever pre-trial proceedings go and where we have documents from our partner offices abroad. Otherwise, it's possible there's waste. We're talking plastic waste, which is separators, cleaned, washed by batteries. They don't pose a threat to the population, but they don't belong there. What the D.A. found reflected in its acts in its findings. I don't have the right to go public. It's not a danger to the population, but it's not the way to store it. If you have information, let it out, no one will stop you. Don't make me commit a crime and add to the prosecution's words! It's neither my job nor my ability. I have no right. I've been cooperating all over the country. That's enough. As a elected representative from Shumen, I have made every effort to track down these waste, to classify it, to measure it and to take follow-up action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-02.u147	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ivanov, the Attorney General's hearing is pending. If you want, you can put a question to him at this hearing. Due to the exhaustion of the agenda, I am adjourned. The next meeting of the National Assembly will be on 7 October 2020 at 9.00. [[PHONE RINGING]]
