ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, I propose that the items on the agenda be displaced: point (s) of the first vote on the Bill for Amendment and Supplement to the Military Intelligence Act, which is importing Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs, from 1 July 2020 on item 2 for Thursday to become item 4 and in its place to move item 9 which will become point two. I'll explain why. Draft decision on the adoption of Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for the submission of candidates for the administration of the National Insurance Institute, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Commission, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly, as these rules of procedure must be published in the Official Journal of the European Union, and it is printed after 13:00, so we simply move the points so that we can succeed in time. Please vote on the procedure so made. They voted 164 MPs: 146, none, abstention 18. The motion is accepted. I'll give you two messages: A draft law adopted on 7 July 2020. "Project to amend and supplement the Law on Asylum and Refugees. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Religions and Human Rights, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order, Security and Defence Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that in implementation of art. 13 of the Law on the passage through and residence on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces, by its order, has authorised, within the period from 7 to 20 July 2020, the residence on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of a group for the management of submersible devices in a composition of five soldiers from the Navy of the Kingdom of Belgium, as well as of ships: First of all, from the composition of the Second Permanent NATO Ship Group of the Navy of the Kingdom of Spain, the French Republic, Romania and the Republic of Turkey. Secondly, from the composition of the Second Permanent NATO Armistice Group of the Hellenic Navy, the Kingdom of Spain, Romania, the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Italy. Third, another participation: missile boats from the Romanian and Hellenic Navy and a patrol boat from Georgia's Border Police. In the same period the ships will visit the port of Burgas. The visit of the group and ships is of a non-military nature and is related to their participation in the National Teaching of the Naval Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria with international participation. The notification was received on 8 July 2020, in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing Moving on to the first item of today's agenda: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR PRE-SCHOOL AND SCHOOL MOVEMENT. Mrs. Damyanova, would you like to introduce us to the Report of the Committee on Education and Science?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! Before I present to you the Commission Report, I ask that we vote on tolerance in the House of Tanya Mihailova
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u3	Please vote on the procedure so made for admission. Vote 151 MPs: 141 against 1, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guest to the hall. Here you go, Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u4	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Pre-school and School Education Act, No 002-01-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 June 2020. At its regular meeting on 1 July 2020, the Education and Science Committee examined the above-mentioned bill. The meeting was attended by Krasimir Valchev, Minister of Education and Science, Evgenia Kostadinova, Director of the Directorate of Pre-school and School Education, Anelia Semkova, Head of the Department of Normality, Greta Gancheva, Director of the Directorate of Public Education, as well as representatives of the media. The Committee on Education and Science received opinions from: The Syndicate of Bulgarian Teachers, the Union of Employers in the System of People's Education in Bulgaria, the National Network for Children, the Bulgarian Association of Private Schools in Bulgaria, the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Center for Interethnic Dialogue and Tolerance. The bill was presented by Krasimir Valchev, Minister of Education and Science, who noted that the proposed changes concern three topics. The compulsory pre-school education for four-year-olds, the control and functioning of the boards of kindergartens and schools and training in electronic environments. The minister stressed that the extension of pre-school education is good to start at the age of three to seven years. It is key to children's linguistic, cognitive, emotional and social development. According to international research PIRLS and TIMSS clearly higher results show children included longer time in pre-school education. A study by the Ministry of Education and Science among the primary teachers also shows that the longer attended kindergarten achieve higher results at school. Currently covered in pre-school education are 91.5% of 5-year-olds and only 78% of 4-year-olds. The difference of 13.5% is children whose mother tongue is not Bulgarian and parents lack respect for education. The proposal for the mandatory coverage of 4-year-olds is financially secured. It is also supported by a 3-year programme, which is presented for public discussion. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. lv. and are set in the state budget for this year. Funds are set aside to build 70 new kindergartens with over 5000 seats. A 3-year period is envisaged in which municipalities, when ready to include 4-year-olds in compulsory pre-school education. 12 million will be released annually. lv. For financial maintenance and 32-33 million to compensate for the fees. Regarding the boards Minister Valchev drew attention to the fact that in the past the schools were donated agricultural land in support of education. During the closure of schools some of these lands were lost by passing on to municipal funds. It violates the will of the donors. The proposal is that the land should be transferred to the host school at the time of their closure. It is also proposed to control school boards in terms of ownership, ensuring that its revenues remain in schools and will not be allocated to the remuneration of board of directors. The third change relates to the legal regulation of training in an electronic environment. This year, it was implemented under the Law on Measures and Actions during a state of emergency. Experience has shown that this type of training can be used under any exceptional circumstances Distance learning in an electronic environment can be applied both for an entire class, for an entire school and for individual students who, for health or other respectable reasons, cannot attend school for no more than 30 school days. It can also be applied as an element of innovation in the organization in innovative schools under the relevant restrictions... not more than 20% of the curriculum. The following discussion was attended by the MPs Elena Pesheva, Milena Damyanova, Milen Mihov, Ivo Hristov, Tanya Petrova, Irena Anastasova, Errol Mehmed, Evdokia Asenova, Stanislav Stanilov, Galya Zaharieva. People's representative Elena Pesheva disagreed with two of the proposals. She believes that the system is not prepared to expand the scope of children in compulsory pre-school education from 4 years of age. There's no place in kindergartens, there's a shortage of teachers. He suggested that the training of four-year-olds be mandatory for the children of those families who receive social benefits. With regard to training in an electronic environment, she expressed reservations because some of the children do not have electronic devices, they do not have access to the Internet. According to her, remote learning should not be widely introduced. National Representative Milena Damyanova made a replica of the speech of the National Representative Elena Pesheva. She said there was a misunderstanding regarding training in an electronic environment. The law does not introduce universal e-learning, it is not all schools to introduce up to 20% compulsory training in an electronic environment. The change concerns only an opportunity for innovation, which the law still allows and is a matter of committee criteria in the ministry whether it will approve. Innovation can be offered even for only one class by proving that it is ready and has the necessary devices and access to the Internet. Everyone is convinced that attendance training is the best, but no one can predict the possibility of being in an emergency situation and then e-learning is an option for continuing the learning process. People's representative Milen Mihov noted that compulsory pre-school training for 4-year-olds is a proposal of his political power since 2015. World experience has shown that early education leads to better results in children's development. Express reservations to the deadline set for the implementation of this measure. Support the aid for fees and propose to be extended to a higher percentage of parents. With regard to the control of the Boards, there was strong support. Revenue from agricultural land should be used only in support of education. He said that children are already in a multidimensional world, they can be in different realities at the same time. The introduction of e-learning must find the balance between these worlds. People's representative Ivo Hristov expressed disagreement with the proposed changes. Regarding compulsory pre-school education of the four-year-olds, not in general, but in the way it is presented in the Bill. The expansion of the scope of pre-school education opposes the various social groups in society. The electronic training of children is a harmful, dangerous practice that cannot lead to the construction of active personalities. According to him, this text should be withdrawn. National Representative Tanya Petrova supported the Bill. The proposed up to 20% hours for innovative schools is an opportunity and it should be assessed as such. Parents from primary schools approve of training in an electronic environment. Electronic training is not an alternative to attendance training, it is only an addition. National Representative Irena Anastasova said that e-learning is not only applicable but also desirable in emergency situations. Many schools can carry it out, but there are others who do not have real conditions for it. The legal framework also now allows training in an electronic environment for innovative schools and sees no sense from regulating up to 20% of the curricula in the Law. He believes that the proposed changes to control the boards are a very timely measure. Support the mandatory range of 4-year-olds. Taking children out of the slums can only be done with education, it is necessary. Her worries are that kindergartens won't be able to take all five and six-year-olds out of schools even after three years. He's very supportive of the idea, but he doesn't think the system's gonna make it. People's representative Errol Mehmed expressed his principled support for the proposed changes and asked questions as to whether the proposal to extend the scope of pre-school children means that the problem of the shortage of places in kindergartens is solved, whether there is financial provision and whether municipalities will be supported with programmes, projects, additional funds. The Movement for Rights and Freedoms is proposing that the fees for kindergartens be dropped completely, because the care for all children must be the same. The municipalities are committed to the education of children, but they cannot handle themselves and it is necessary to be assisted by the state. National Representative Stanislav Stanilov expressed his support for all changes, but also his skepticism regarding Roma integration. National Representative Galya Zaharieva stressed that four-year-old children are in kindergarten. The proposed change is aimed at all children who are 4 years old to attend kindergarten and not related to integration. The problem with places in kindergartens is in big cities. Note that the Preschool and School Education Act regulates various forms of training that parents can benefit from. The care for preschool children is entirely a commitment of the municipalities. According to MP Galya Zaharieva, fees for kindergartens should be local policy and their place is not in the Law. National Representative Milena Damyanova stressed that teachers have given a lot of themselves during the state of emergency and should be thanked and respected. He called for good examples to be taken when changing the laws. You can't make legislation based on bad examples. With regard to 4-year-olds it is not exactly to talk about preschool training, training and so on, it is a process that includes both care and education, and of course training, it is kindergarten. The mandatory range of 4-year-olds is not an integration measure, but an effort for each child to be successful. It is a measure that guarantees the success of every child, regardless of its ethnicity and social group. Just because there are no buildings doesn't mean we shouldn't move towards change, towards development and set an example with Sofia, where the 5- and 6-year-olds are covered. From 1992 to 2002, 44 kindergartens were closed in the capital. It builds, new kindergartens are being built. In recent years, the municipality has provided seats for over 16,000 children. When education is a priority in a municipality, it is evident. With regard to fees, he believes that this is a local policy. The compulsory kindergarten for the 4-year-olds is the support of the state to the parents and to the municipalities to ensure the scope of the children. After the discussion ended, the Minister of Education and Science answered the questions raised by the MPs. After a 13 votes vote on pre-school and school education, the Committee on Education and Science asked the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Pre-school and School Education Act, No 002-01-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 June 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Damyanova. Report of the Committee on Children, Youth and
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u6	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports The Committee on Children, Youth and Sports at its regular meeting, held on 1 July 2020, examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Pre-school and School Education Act, No 002-01-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 June 2020. The meeting was attended by: Ms. Tanya Mihailova, Deputy Minister of Education and Science, and Mrs. Vanya Traykova, expert at the Directorate of Preschool and School Education. The proposal to amend and supplement the Law on pre-school and school education was presented by Deputy Minister Tanya Mihailova, who pointed out that the submitted bill aims to facilitate access to education, as well as to encourage inclusion and prevent social exclusion and dropping children from vulnerable groups. The Bill proposes changes, such as introducing compulsory preschool education for children aged 4 years, offers an opportunity to pay child care fees. The legal framework also regulates distance learning in an electronic environment by using the means of information and communication technologies, paying attention to the qualifications of teachers in relation to this type of training. On the bill were received opinions from: The Syndicate of Bulgarian Teachers; the Union of Employers in the System of People's Education in Bulgaria; the Bulgarian Association of Private Schools and the National Network for Children. They all support the proposed amendments. In the subsequent discussion took part the national representative Ivan Chenchev, who expressed reservations regarding compulsory pre-school education for the four-year-olds as well as the distance training. As a result of the discussion held and on the basis of the 11-vote vote held, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on pre-school and school education, No 002-01-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 June 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Dinev. With the Report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management, please come in, Mr. Dinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u8	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on pre-school and school education, No 002-01-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 8 July 2020, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management discussed a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Pre-school and School Education, No 002-01-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 June 2020. In the meeting of the Commission took part: Ms. Tanya Mihailova, Deputy Minister of Education and Science, Mrs. Evgenia Kostadinova, Director of the Directorate of Pre-school and School Education and Mrs. Anelia Semkova, Head of the Department of Normal and Legal Affairs of the Ministry of Education and Science. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Deputy Minister Mihailova. Among the main changes in the Bill is the introduction of compulsory pre-school education for children aged 4 years, and this change is among the priorities of the government reflected in the Programme for Government Management in the period 2017 - 2021. Education in kindergarten is key not only for the development of the child, but also because, along with training, education and socialization, provides daily cultivation, warm and healthy food and controlled hygiene conditions, at the same time, it allows parents to be active in the labour market. The bill provides for support to parents who are in a disadvantaged social situation to pay their fees for the use of kindergartens. This is a step aimed at overcoming obstacles that have a negative impact on the inclusion of children in preschool education. Changes related to the activities and property of the boards in the system of pre-school and school education are envisaged. The main requirement of the Law is the boards to carry out socially useful activities and to support the activities of the educational institution. However, there are many cases in practice where they do not fulfil this objective. This is often expressed in their use of income from the property they manage, including from agricultural lands donated in the past to the school of patriotic people. As a result, the Boards are making profits, although they are created for public benefit, which is why it is necessary to create a provision from which it is explicitly and unambiguously clear that their main objective is to support, support and support the development of kindergarten, school or support centre for personal development. The Bill proposes to introduce a permanent legal framework of distance learning in an electronic environment by using the means of information and communication technologies. Distance training in an electronic environment may be used by schools in the event of the notification of influenza epidemics or other unforeseen circumstances for which a competent authority has ordered the cessation of attendance hours for students, and limits are also provided for the maximum number of distance training hours. The Commission received an opinion from the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, expressing support for the Bill. In the course of the discussion was expressed principled support for the bill, while proposals were also made to be taken into account between the two votes. Support for payment of fees payable for the use of kindergartens should cover all children and not only those mentioned in the Bill. It is also necessary to specify the provisions relating to the management of the school forests and the land of municipal schools, such as the control of municipal councils. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 13 votes for the Council of Ministers, No 002-01-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers, proposed to the National Assembly a draft amendment and supplement to the Pre-school and School Education Act, No 002-01-22, to be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u9	Thank you, Mr. Dinev. I will ask Deputy Minister Mihailova on behalf of the importers to present the bill to the MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u10	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The amendments proposed in the Bill are in the following important guidelines. First of all, covering in compulsory pre-school education for 4-year-olds as a key measure that will have high added value in terms of children's personal and social development. It is important to note that this policy is aimed at all children and not at a specific group, as the benefits of its introduction are related to laying the foundations for lifelong learning and acquiring skills that are essential for the realization not only in the next stages of education, but also in the labour market. The earlier coverage of preschool children is of great importance for their development, because this is the age in which the basic cognitive and part of social and emotional skills are formed. Preschool education not only lays the foundations for these skills, but plays an essential role in the subsequent successful integration and realization of the child in society. International studies made with regard to such a measure show that investing in early childhood education is a public expenditure with the highest rate of return, such as for children from vulnerable groups and those with special educational needs, it is even higher. Many difficulties can be overcome faster in early childhood, while in school education it will take more time and resources. The reasons for proposing the introduction of compulsory pre-school education are also provided with data from the analysis of the Ministry of Education and Science in relation to the better results of the national external assessment in the fourth grade of children who were enrolled in compulsory pre-school education. The most serious leap in results emerges after the 3-year coverage of children. This is proof that the introduction of 2-year compulsory pre-school education significantly contributes to improving their achievements in school education, but more effective would be its expansion by another year and the compulsory coverage of 4-year-olds. In support of these conclusions are the analyses and data from the international studies conducted.. such as PIRLS and PISA, pre-school education as a basis for the achievements in school education. The longer they went to kindergarten, the higher their achievements. The difference in these children's achievements reaches 75 points. The Ministry of Education and Science does not ignore the main challenges facing the introduction of compulsory pre-school education that are related, on the one hand, to the shortage of places in kindergartens in some major cities in the country. On the other hand, access to preschool education is also limited in small settlements where there is no kindergarten. A provision is therefore proposed to make it clear explicitly and unambiguously clear that the main purpose of the boards is support, support and assistance to kindergarten, school or support centre for personal development and assistance for this development, and the expenditure of revenue is only for the achievement of this objective. Fourth, an important change is the introduction of a permanent legal framework for distance learning into an electronic environment by using the means of information and communication technologies. With a clear understanding that attendance training at school cannot be effectively replaced by any alternative forms, it is possible to use distance learning in an electronic environment, to ensure continuity of the learning process in the event of a influenza epidemic or other unforeseen circumstances. Education as a process includes training, education and socialization. The training on electronic activity focuses mainly on cognitive skills and it is possible for emotional and social skills to remain in the background. Long-distance communication in an electronic environment cannot replace physical contact and communication, which is why the proposed changes allow only for overcoming the missing material in force majeure circumstances. The situation with the spread of COVID-19 around the world clearly signalled educational systems that they should not just be adaptable enough to any change, but also provide conditions for continuing training regardless of these changes. Based on the experience already gained, the proposed bill outlines the overall parameters of training in an electronic environment from a distance and provides for cases where such training is automatically applied as a natural continuation and addition to traditional attendance training. First of all, of course, when influenza epidemics or other unforeseen circumstances are announced, because of which a competent authority has ordered the cessation of attendance hours for students, training may continue from a distance in an electronic environment. This would save, on average, about two weeks of study, which otherwise are unteachable and are usually at the expense of the hours of exercise and practical application of what we have learned, and these are the important hours of skill development. The second case where training can be carried out in an electronic environment at a distance is an element of innovation in the organisation, but only in innovative schools and in the respective limitations.. not more than 20% of the hours of compulsory training from the curriculum can be carried out in this way. This will ensure that in each of the subjects and at least 80% of the hours will be in the traditional classroom under physical contact with the teacher. Thirdly, in cases where a student is absent for respectable reasons from school for not more than 30 school days, but is able to attend and participate in a lesson, albeit virtually. In addition, texts are proposed which allow the implementation of general and additional support under certain conditions also in an electronic distance environment, as well as the possibility of improving the qualification of pedagogical specialists certified by the award of qualification credits through training in an electronic distance environment. The proposed changes are expected to have a positive impact on the personal development, socialization, adaptation and realization of our children, the rhythm of the learning process, the development of educational institutions and the conditions under which they work.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Minister. My fellow Members, I am opening the debate. You have the floor, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I may start a little emotionally, but today is another good day for Bulgarian education in this term. [[(Voices from BSP for Bulgaria]] I see that my colleagues in the opposition are enthusiastic and agree with me. We will support this change in the Preschool and School Education Act. I'm gonna take a few questions. I'll focus on changing and introducing mandatory kindergarten for four-year-olds. The report states that I am tempted to say again that this has been our legislative initiative since 2015. What does compulsory kindergarten mean for 4-year-olds? I remind you that there is now such a provision for five-year-olds. First of all, we will say: this is an obligation for parents who, under this provision, must ensure the presence of their children in kindergartens. However, this is already a solved problem, because the vast majority of parents, without this requirement, have practically voted for such a change, visiting and sending their children to kindergartens. Here I want to open the clamp and say that this actual vote shows trust in public pre-school education, which works and exists in Bulgaria, and which, I think, should be appreciated by dignity. Secondly, however, this is an obligation for the state, which must provide all the necessary conditions - equal and accessible opportunities for every Bulgarian citizen and his children to attend kindergarten. One important element: pre-school education is largely guided and organised by municipalities. This provision raises public responsibility to a higher level than municipal to state. How should we treat this measure? It is also mentioned in the reports, I think the debate will also say that this is a very strong integration measure, but if we only get this far, we will have only told part of the truth. From IMRO and "United Patriarchs" we believe that it has far greater functions. It is social and assists Bulgarian citizens by guaranteeing access to high quality, healthy pre-school education guaranteed by the state. It is undoubtedly also an economic measure that ensures the ability of parents, young mothers to return quickly to their profession, to public activity and to a good professional career. However, it is also a demographic measure because the state's guaranteed and guaranteed pre-school education for four years will allow for calm and long-term family planning. I will no longer think about what the demographic dimensions of such a measure mean. We therefore believe that the key issue in this bill is the issue of state support or, popularly speaking, kindergarten fees. We believe that in the end we will reach, let me express myself popularly, to a free kindergarten for all Bulgarian citizens in the compulsory stage of kindergarten. We understand, however, that this requires a certain resource and a planned implementation based on the financial capabilities of the state, without creating tensions for the budget and budget expenditure. We have presented and continue to argue that in the first place and as a first step can be accepted ceiling for the free kindergarten for the 4-year-olds, which is approximately equal to the average income for the country, which can be said to be BGN 1200, or calculated as a four-member family, is BGN 600. income of a family member. We are ready to debate with everyone and, above all, with our partners from the ruling coalition on the opportunities to implement this threshold for support as of next year, because around 70. 75% of Bulgarian citizens next year will be supported with free kindergarten for the four-year-olds. Secondly, I would consider the question of school land. I recall that in this House the National Assembly adopted a moratorium on the acquisition of school land, which was and is a temporary measure. Then one of the legitimate criticisms was that this issue should be dealt with in a complex way. Today the Ministry of Education and Science and we will take one step in this direction. Why are we in favour of this proposal the school lands of closed schools on a natural demographic problem, to remain in the education system, and not to be returned as municipal lands and from there to be such as to be able to risk the income from these lands coming out of the field of education? This provision complies with the will of the donors, who, pay attention, in a long period of over 80 years, before the end of World War II, have donated land from their own property to support the Bulgarian schools. This is the will that is unchanged, and the preservation of these lands as a source of resources for the education system expresses both social and historical justice. Finally, I will say two words about the remote training offered. We consider this training as a tool for education and not as a replacement of the traditional form of education in the Bulgarian school. We are sure that the implementation of this measure will be best done by the Bulgarian students, by the Bulgarian principals of our schools and in no case should this be seen as a replacement of traditional education with remote and digital education. I believe in Bulgarian teachers, I believe in the Bulgarian pedagogical capacity, which can use modern technologies, which can use the new digital realities in the training of our children who will live in a very different world than today. Thank you, and that concludes our support for the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u13	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. - What's the line? We continue with the speeches. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u14	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Pre-school and School Education offers three key changes, one of which is the inclusion of 4-year-olds in compulsory pre-school education. In principle, the proposed policy is important for early childhood development and its good implementation could resolve issues related to early school dropout, the scope of preschool education, be support for working parents and their return to the labour market, as well as the mastery of the Bulgarian language by children whose language is not native. The question is: is our education system ready to implement this challenge? Do we have the necessary material base, sufficiently prepared teachers and adapted curricula? Do we have a guarantee for all interested participants in the process that the proposed measure can be implemented anywhere? Of course, last but not least, what is the impact assessment of the compulsory measure already introduced for pre-school education of 5-year-olds? Despite the common understanding that quality care and early childhood education lay the foundations for future successes in education, in well-being, in access to employment, social integration still does not have a public consensus on the implementation of the policy that is being offered to us today. To confirm this are the negative opinions that parents, parental organizations and the public defender have tabled. Their concerns are mainly linked to the possibility to ensure successful implementation of this policy. Practice shows that we have insufficient places in kindergartens and that demand is greater than supply especially in large cities. We have a large number of children in the groups, which therefore deprives them of an individual approach. There is already a shortage of trained teachers. It is proposed that in the absence of kindergarten in a place of pre-school groups for 4-year-old children should also be revealed in a school that will bring together four-year-old children and 16-year-old students in one place, and that in turn means that access to quality care and education should be wide open, but in no case mandatory. This is the practice and in most countries only primary education is mandatory. Such is the Bulgarian educational tradition. The reasons for the project are pointed out as defining pre-school education for success in school education. Of course, the results of the national external evaluation after fourth grade are also taken and it is concluded that children who have spent three or more years in kindergarten show higher achievements against the background of children who have not attended kindergarten. There is no scientific justification for such a relationship between the visit of the kindergarten and the achievements of the children in primary education. Therefore, I believe that the measure should not be mandatory, but to provide access to all children wishing to attend kindergarten from 4 years of age. Finally, a sentence relating to financial support for the fees of kindergartens to families who are under social assistance and receive child benefits. In my opinion, the scope of these aids should be extended and, through the state budget, municipalities should be helped in their efforts to remove the fees for kindergartens for everyone. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Asenova. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Mehmet.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The law on pre-school and school education is no longer a new one. It has regulated the system for four years. It can be worked and is subject to an amendment and supplement according to the functional analysis, which is constantly done by teachers, parents, children and students. The bill concerns the whole society and it is good that it is tabled by the Council of Ministers. Responsibility must be assumed by the government and public policy must be tangible and very visible. What are the more important proposals "Introduction of compulsory pre-school education from 4 years of age, legal regulation of remote form of training, support of socially weak families in paying fees to kindergartens with funds from the state budget and disposal of donated properties of closed schools. Dear colleagues, we at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms believe that in principle the mandatory scope should be for all children from 3 to 7 years of age. The problem of the shortage of places in kindergartens, especially in large cities, must be solved in an urgent order, because this is already inadequate. At the same time, statistics show that at present the covered 4-year-olds are only 75%. Most of the other children are not Bulgarian. Here the accusations began that the children did not know Bulgarian, that the parents of these children had no positive attitude towards education, that teachers were desperately giving up teaching them and so on. And why blame them, as we ourselves, as responsible lawmakers, should we lay firm foundations? It is disturbing that, apart from the official Bulgarian language, these children will not know their mother tongue in its literary form. It grows illiterate, uneducated and unintegrated generation. We will support the submitted Bill, but we take into account the lack of a very important theme of the language through which the child learns and develops. The position of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms has always been clear with the study of the Bulgarian language for children from ethnic communities to learn their mother tongue. This is real democracy. Here, however, we will reveal to you an absurd state. According to Decree No 10 of 19 December 2017, issued by the Minister of Education, the subject of study is not recognised as a general educational subject. Last year's proposal for the amendment of Decree No 79 of the Council of Ministers of 13 April 2016 to ensure the free use of cognitive books, textbooks and study kits was rejected and we have come to the point that a political party - a movement for rights and freedoms - should finance, issue and distribute textbooks in Turkish language. Here is the place to remind one more important thing: in the European Reference Framework, mother tongue is part of the first key competence - Language literacy. Based on this, we will continue to fight and look for a solution, because in essence this is an unresolved problem in democratic Bulgaria. Honourable Members, when discussing the support for payment of fees, bear in mind that we from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms have imported and will again submit a proposal to remove the fees for visiting kindergartens of all children, meaning kindergartens, to be free of charge. This is the real state policy, not to work in a piece and to make first timid steps to help families in a disadvantaged social situation, sending at the same time wrong messages to the whole society. All children need care, protection, equality in approach and easy access to education. The topic of training in an electronic environment is particularly up-to-date. She's very discussional and very sensitive. The envisaged possibility under the Bill up to 20% of the curriculum to conduct the training in remote form is legal regulation in exceptional circumstances, as is the current pandemic of COVID-19. However, our opinion is that no one can replace with anything the traditional present form of training proven over time with the acquired sustainable knowledge, skills, relationships and competences. In this sense, the computer is only an aid. 20 years ago, you might remember, there was a serious discussion. She was raised by the question: will she eat the mouse's license? After this long discussion period, to date this question receives its negative answer. The topic of donated real estate of the schools we, from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, will comment on at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u17	Thank you, Mr. Mehmet. The line, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u18	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I can't help but react to two things in your speech. First, there is no reason for the mother tongue to be general education. I immediately ask a question: should my language be general education as a mother? Secondly, it is clear that this proposal is politically motivated by the DPS, and you have practically admitted that the Movement for Rights and Freedoms has issued textbooks. I do not know with this recognition whether you are doing a service to your own party because there are legal provisions who validates textbooks, how textbooks are issued and how these textbooks are distributed. A political party to issue textbooks in Bulgaria?! That's kind of weird, not to say it's against the law. Thirdly, you say that the state limits the rights of Bulgarian citizens to study mother tongue, but in your areas the interest in Turkish language is less than your desired one. There are mayors of your municipalities whose children do not study Turkish, which is optional. Children and their parents want to learn English for example because they see the perspective for their development in Europe, in contemporary democratic Bulgaria. So your demands the state through its policy to impose compulsory Turkish language learning are politically deliberate. Thank you. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u19	Thank you. Any other lines? Hole, Mr. Mehmed, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That's the kind of line he deserves. Mr. Mihov, you are a member of the Committee on Education and Science, but you have just proved that you are not in class and are not aware that the Turkish language textbooks have actually passed through the Ministry, have passed all procedural rules and have been approved by the Minister. However, the problem that stands and the situation is absurd, as I mentioned, is that they are financed by the party subsidy of the movement for rights and freedoms, which is extremely wrong. As for the language subject whether it should be a general educational subject or not, you answer to yourself. Is the French common education subject in Bulgaria? What's the subject of English? Why is a language subject, in the case of a Turkish mother, parallel with the choreography in Regulation No 10 and are the other language subjects in the same group? Just think about it, and as an expert, you can answer for yourself. Just one thing I will remind you of, because every time the Movement for Rights and Freedoms we go out with the topic of Mother's language, we meet a more special and more interesting resistance on your part. However, I will remind you that just a month ago the Bulgarian National Assembly issued a declaration in support of the Bulgarian minority in Ukraine. There has always been support for the Bulgarian community abroad since the beginning of the transition until now. We mentioned then that when we support principled situations for our fellow citizens or Bulgarians abroad, we remind that there are unresolved problems in Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u21	Thank you. Mrs. Georgieva, come in for a speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u22	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We from the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Rhodolyptics will abstain at first reading from the Preschool and School Education Act. We believe that there are good ideas in it, but that they cannot be realized to date. For example, the introduction of compulsory preschool should be for children from 4 years of age. The main reason is that in the country there is no basis and conditions for this change. You know perfectly well that the idea cannot be realized at the moment in the larger cities, not only in Sofia, but also in Burgas, in Varna, in Plovdiv, too. There's been a shortage of kindergartens there for years. In our view, the state must first provide the necessary conditions and only then require citizens to leave their children at the age of 4 in pre-school groups. The need for new kindergartens is urgent. As our colleague Elena Pesheva said during another meeting of the Education Committee, to which she is a member: raising children in groups is not a solution to the problem, as they try to solve it, for example in Plovdiv. On the contrary, good European practice shows that a reduction in the number of children in a group is needed, as well as an increase in pedagogical and non-pedagogical staff at the expense of the number of children. Only then will we be able to provide a calm and safe environment for our children, as well as an individual approach to their training. I'm sure any parent would agree with that. I can't help but point out one more thing: the early dropout from the educational system of children from low social status families and minority groups, which represents about 12 - 14%, is undoubtedly a serious problem. However, it can be resolved without obligation and commitment to more than 85% of citizens with children over 4 years of age. Evidence of the thesis is also the results of the national external evaluation and the exams. They're lower than last year's. And what did Mon do? From compulsory pre-school to 6 years old it became mandatory pre-school for 5-year-olds, now they want age to drop even at 4 years old. And the results of the students are going further and further down each year. Is this the right direction, or is it time for other changes? These are part of the reasons for the will, with which we will vote abstention. In our view, between first and second reading of the Law, we need to consider optimizing the issues at issue, as well as overcoming texts that are currently unable to find realization. Therefore, Volya will submit proposals before the second reading of the Bill. Thank you. [[Applause from the Bulgarian Rhodolists.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Georgieva. - What's the line? We continue with the speeches. Mr. Christov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u24	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members! I have already had the opportunity to express my opinion on the draft of the specialized educational committee on the first vote. That's where I put my arguments, so I'm only gonna concentrate here at two points. The first point concerns what is called compulsory pre-school education. And the second point concerns the so-called remote training, also known as electronic. Let's just say things the way they are. With regard to compulsory pre-school education, we finally admitted that the king is naked, that there are significant segments of Bulgarian society, which within 30 years of democratic transition have become enclaves within the Republic of Bulgaria. There are generations for which the Bulgarian is not only not a mother, or even a stranger, they have no haberre of this language at all. What's more, they demonstrably do not want to study this language. And that's just a good start. They do not need socialization for the simple reason that they live in their closed world and believe that the Bulgarian majority still, I do not know how long, will tolerate them. Looking at them, she'll tolerate them. Let's go. The state finally felt at twelve to five that it had a problem. If you recall, here three years ago we discussed a Strategy for Roma Inclusion. And then I told you that besides writing strategies... By the way, by the amount of strategies per capita, we may be at the top of this part of the world, and by the utility rate of the last. Let's face it directly and clearly: the Bulgarian majority will now have to pay, because all this will come through our taxes, for bringing in a part of the minority, their children, for the most elementary thing to learn to have some simple conversation in Bulgarian, and, of course, to have some basic hygiene habits. That's on us. I want to make it clear. That is, on the 30th year of the transition the state decided to enter its rights in some enclaves, which are constantly expanding on Bulgarian territory. As an idea, it's great. As a realization, as you know, each initiative is punished by its implementation. Remember my word. Nothing will come out of this due to lack of strategy due to lack of resources, lack of competence and cowardice of the Bulgarian ruling elite. So this is moving the air from point A to point B, but we're going to observe, so to speak, with interest. This job should have happened a long time ago. If you ask me, here our colleagues at the DPS know this Turkish saying: The Bulgarians have the second mind that comes to him after that. The problem is not to solve a problem, the problem is not to let yourself have a problem. That's what makes sense and smart management is. The second question concerning the so-called distance learning. I have already submitted a parliamentary inquiry to the Minister of Education on this case. On the occasion of the coronistry and the measures imposed, I hear enthusiastic reactions of part of Bulgarian teaching, for others I don't even want to talk about how nice it was, how advanced it was, how technologically sophisticated and so on. Dear colleagues, I would like to say clearly: the road to hell is paved through electronic remote learning. And that doesn't sound like some conservative darkness to you. Clearly, we live in an information environment. It is clear that we live in an environment where our children have not read a book, but they will tell you all kinds of electronic games that are transferred over the Internet. It is clear that the electronic environment for non-strengthened organisms, non-strength nervous and any other system, play the role of forming a psychomental matrix that will then produce biobots. I hope at least someone in this room understands that, not everyone. It is clear that if we continue on this path, we have now opened just a little bit, so to speak, the crevice of hell, up to 20% in the so-called innovative schools, I do not even want to comment on what this is. The practice in Bulgaria has shown: when you say that something is up to 20%, remember me the word Training is primarily a socialized process and on the occasion of the first point of my speech the training has the task not to provide information but to form personalities. And this job happens with socialization, and it doesn't work with a click on the Internet and with mice. The training is primarily designed to create broad-format specialists who can then do any narrow special activity, not vice versa, as some are currently experiencing as adepts. The narrow specialist who knows more and more about less and less, and for everything else, you will forgive, is a social idiot in the ancient Greek sense. Is that what we want? The intense enthusiasm of a part of the teaching community how much this had solved the problems, fellow professors, this is the beginning of your end as a compound, if not clear to you. Nothing can replace personal, personal contact with children and the creation of their respective qualities. I understand that I have personally been involved in this type of training, more than ten people cannot be covered through such an information system. Not to mention the quality of these 10 people and the way you communicate with them. I understand that this way we can't go any further. So please, if we have to have a common consensus, because there are no parties here, there is no division here, it is about our children. We're really gonna miss them and we've already missed them, to be honest. I'm asking you very much for once that we have common sense. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u25	Thank you, Mr. Christov. - What's the line? I can't see. We continue with the speeches. Mr. Bogdanov. Please increase the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u26	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Today, we are debating extremely important amendments to the Preschool and School Education Act. And I cannot accept the opinions of critics, who usually, when it comes to making some practical decisions that have an effect and that solve problems, as I said, accumulated for a long time, they always question them or we go into too much thought about things that we shouldn't comment on so much, we just have to act. What do I mean? It is obvious that whole groups, whole neighborhoods, whole ghettos in the country, in large cities, in separate settlements are disintegrated, they are not only part of the educational system, they are not part of the country Bulgaria. Have you, as MPs, when you were in your districts, not talked to teachers, school directors who tell you that children who enter these educational and childcare establishments not only have no social habits, they have no eating habits? For example, I also have such information from conversations and meetings with my colleagues, where it turns out that children, going to kindergarten or first grade, they do not know to eat with a fork and spoon. There was one even more unpleasant case for a child who had only eaten bread and lemonade in his life. Do you think that this is normal and we should close our eyes and continue in this way to talk, to philosophise and to refuse things that will tomorrow come with even greater force and weight on our heads? Of course, children should be from 4 years of age compulsory in kindergarten and arguments of the type: there were not enough seats in kindergartens... Except Sofia and one or two towns go to the countryside and see that there are as many places there as you want in kindergartens. Another is the question of this excessive concentration of Bulgarian citizens in the capital and in another or two cities. Did we accidentally vote in the budget for this year, at the end of December, we voted in the budget and 70 million were set. lv. for the construction of new kindergartens in Sofia Municipality. Other cities that have problems also have their own budgets and have also pledged such funds. Even the bill under consideration doesn't say that starting tomorrow, we're bringing all four-year-olds into kindergarten mandatory. There's a deadline. There are opportunities where municipalities are ready to start this thing from the new school year. However, we must set some limits that must not be missed this time, in this management, as they are betting on the future decades of the country's development, demographic issues and dealing with them. I'd like to say a few words about the free kindergarten. This, as well as the previous proposal, are the work of the United Patriarchs and thank God we find a very good dialogue with both our partners from GERB and the Ministry of Education and Science. What demographic policy will we conduct when we do not support young parents in any way? This is one of the measures that can give them a chance to increase birth rates, the possibility that these people, when they are at work and in the first years of their life together, have a relief from at least the point of view of their children using free kindergartens. Here, naturally, on behalf of the United patriots, I will make an objection, in fact Associate Professor Mihov did it before me, we work in the direction of all Bulgarian children, without a difference of social status and ethnicity, to benefit from this service, called free kindergarten, not only for socially weak. In this case, we are in a situation to determine a third pillar of funding for such families, first, through social benefits, a second time through child benefits, and now a third time we are assisting children with the state's fees for kindergartens. Well, these people who, by five leva, exceed, say, the income they need, there is no triple support for them. They remain with five leva more, but much more back than the others will use. That is why we insist on this in the first place, and we will do this as a proposal for the second reading of the Law on pre-school and school education and its amendments, to determine the average income for the country and we believe that this will be a very serious step, which will cover at least 70% of Bulgarian children at this stage. For the following years we must work for the full range of all Bulgarian children. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u27	Thank you, Mr. Bogdanov. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. We continue with the speeches by Dr. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u28	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Let us not forget that when four-year-olds go to kindergartens, they will not only be trained, but there nurses have to take care of them something that is so serious, so we also have to have a role in all this activities of caring and maintaining children's health. I give and alarm from this tribune a serious signal that we should all think about, as the average age of nurses who will serve our children is 54 years old and one third are pensioners. We have so much work to do, let everyone think about it, when we make today's decision what lies ahead, what we have to do.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Naydenova. - What's the line? I won't. Mrs. Zaharieva, to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u30	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Taking exclusive responsibility for the education of our children guarantee the policies of the governments of GERB party and Prime Minister Borisov in recent years. Education is a priority not only as a text in the law, but is a constant concern for the system, consistency in measures, in actions, reform, supported financially not only by increasing teachers' salaries in the system, but also provided funds for implementing a number of supporting quality of education measures. Today we are looking at proposals for a change in the Preschool and School Education Act, which is the next very important step to ensure the success and development of each child, its full future realization. The positives of the introduction of compulsory pre-school education from 4 years of age are undisputed. There's no professional in the system that doesn't account for these positives. Unfortunately, many children from the EU member states are at risk of poverty throughout their lives because they have not received early opportunities for better education, have not received social skills for development, have not received a chance. This is why they don't have this chance in their entire lives and weigh both on the economy and on society. This, honourable Members, is data from the European Union as of 2016, obtained on the basis of expert studies from a number of recognised international studies. Children who have not started their training early: socio-educational, cognitive and so on have problems in school, in their development as individuals and as adults. They do not get the opportunity to support, including social health in time, and problems are deepening. These problems do not allow them to get out of the circle of poverty and isolation, and this circle is becoming wider and, unfortunately, it is also a problem for everyone else outside this circle. More and more parents today rely on kindergartens to take care of the upbringing and early literacy of their children. Visiting a kindergarten has a key role to play in the personal construction of adolescents, develop their social and practical skills and provide additional support for those who have gaps in the family caused by socio-economic or cultural educational prerequisites. Preschool education and education, most often conducted in kindergartens, strives to prepare children for school by reducing or completely eliminating family deficits, especially in socially vulnerable groups. If children do not understand the Bulgarian language at first stage before entering school, they have two ways to catch up by balancing between the absorption of the Bulgarian language and the taught material or by not learning the Bulgarian language or the taught material. It is no coincidence, honourable Members, almost 92% of the Bulgarian primary teachers firmly support the measure for compulsory 4 years of age. The decision on which way to take the children should not be left in their hands, namely the compulsory pre-school preparation put itself to the task of solving this problem. Pre-school education and education is crucial for the achievements of the children "The longer they have attended kindergarten or pre-school group, the higher their achievements are. School readiness is a serious prerequisite for the smooth start of children in school education. The more prepared they are for what awaits them, the better they will adapt in the transition from carefree childhood to the student's responsible work. For a long time, honourable Members, first-grade children are no longer expected to encounter the letters, the numbers at school. Adopting school readiness as an essential factor for quality education, education systems increasingly turn to pre-school education to prepare future students for school. The more this happens in kindergartens, the easier and more successful the training is also at the most important stage of school education. Honourable Members, there are no directives in the field of education to introduce common requirements for Member States regarding education policies. Most countries in the European Union are starting to reduce the age of compulsory pre-school training. Let us not accept compulsory pre-school training as an activity during which children will sit in desks for 10 hours and study. No, they will be in the same kindergarten as they are now, will have fun and in the form of a game will acquire their knowledge and skills. Our ambition is to make this kindergarten more welcoming, more accessible and able to meet the needs of every child. Once again, I would like to stress the four-year-olds will be mandatory in kindergarten and not in school together with the big khakis and big brothers. Participation in early childhood education and care continues to be weak, which prevents the early acquisition of cognitive and social-emotional skills. This is said and is one of the main findings in the European Commission Education Report for 2019. In fact, we should not consider early childhood care for children as institutionalization, but as an opportunity for each child to gain knowledge, emotional and social skills. The support expressed in opinions to the Education Committee of trade unions is categorical. We hear, of course, the worries. The introduction of compulsory pre-school training shows, honourable Members, the serious commitment of the state, the government, the local authorities to ensure equal access to education for all children. The lack of places in nurseries and kindergartens is a problem that active and educated parents really face. However, we want to give people a clear signal that, with the introduction of this legal provision, the government, in fact, is committed to solving the problem of the lack of seats in kindergartens. It is also a coincidence that the programs that are being prepared by the Ministry of Education and Science, what we have all voted on here in the room with the funds that are being set aside to renovate and build new kindergartens. It is not for a reason that all of this is bound by this grace period, which we place in the law until 2023, to be binding on the territory of the whole country. It is very serious attention that needs to be paid to the role of local authorities, to municipalities, but it is more important to say that municipalities will implement this policy thanks to and guaranteed with the support of the state, and not only support for words, but support provided financially. Dear colleagues, we have an extremely good system of preschool education such as quality, traditions, such as experience and opportunities. That is why it is absolutely imperative that we give more children the right to equal opportunities. The early acquisition of all skills will enable each child to start training at school so that it is successful and not threatened by dropping out or falling behind. My last sentence will be to you, fellow Members. In a little while, when we vote, let us do so with the conviction that the proposed changes are giving more opportunities and rights to each of our Bulgarian children. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. Are there any lines? I don't see any lines. Any other comments? Ms. Nencheva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u32	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Once again, the MPs are placed in a situation to repeat the vicious model of adoption of the Law. We accept the norms before good conditions are created for their action. The result is compromising the law, the idea it contains, as well as the results in training that do not satisfy. The situation in the National Assembly is deja vu of the proposed texts, from four years ago, of the Preschool and School Education Act and its adoption. Today again is repeated the tape with lack of competence, lack of desire for in-depth analysis, as well as to respect public opinion, opinion of teachers, directors, parents. Mistakes are repeated without the desire to learn from them. You present before us in the National Assembly and before society Law amending and supplementing the Law on pre-school and school education. He again threw the educational system into anxiety and confusion. Almost a month of different speakers have been trying to present the new changes, and the more the effort in the explanations grows, the more questions arise on the proposed texts. We hope that, in the short period between the first and second reading of the Law, more clarity will be given, because this is increasing the tensions in the education system. There are few basic things that are proposed to amend the text of the Law on pre-school and school education, and at the same time we are witnessing too rapid a proposal for changes in texts of the Law on distance learning in an electronic environment by using the tools of information and communication technologies. It's obvious that no one can stop the intrusion of technology into our lives. There is no doubt that maintaining digital culture in the 12th century is a necessity that digital literacy should grow, that one of the inevitable changes in education is linked to the transition to individualization of the learning process, at least with regard to its training component. However, this process must be well prepared and carefully prepared. There are still disputes going on even in understanding the definitions of concepts in the proposed texts. Remote training in Bulgaria poses a risk of 11 per cent of students without technical devices and use of the Internet. The announcement of the state of emergency in March 2020 required the implementation of distance training in Bulgaria. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u33	A little quiet in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u34	Colleagues, please take your seats!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u35	It also highlighted the risks of worsening the already large inequalities in the field of education. This is what the European Commission's recommendations say. In the spring package of the so-called European semester, 23, in the chapter on Bulgaria, which is related to education, writes the following: "Bulgaria is among the Member States in which the social economic situation has the greatest influence on the results of the training. The massive entry of training applications and other digital means into the homes of the Bulgarian students to the extent that it happened, while the schools were closed, is seen as a temporary compromise imposed by the circumstances. If a public debate is sought among parents, they tend to take a step forward, but be cautious. This is because practically this change is not publicly discussed. Perhaps because the public debate, which, if at all, takes place, for a bolder entry of digital and remote learning into education, will be neither light nor short. Again you offer the norm without an analysis of the experience, without exploring the possibilities, without preparing the society. According to a study on the problem, which is not representative, but still shows that almost half the parents are not ready to support this training. Education has not only a training function, it also has a educational and socializing function, which in Bulgaria are legally attached to the Preschool and School Education Act. The closure of schools de facto limited education only to training in non-existent remote form. Where digitization worked, education was reduced by necessity only to its training function. The quality of knowledge absorption was highly problematic, which also affected the volume of HBO's verified knowledge for the seventh grade. The process of rapid and unplanned digitalization of part of the training process took place almost in parallel in many countries in the world. In most countries, the same problems have emerged, which has also been reflected in the assessment of education ministers in the EU countries. In the brief motives of the Ministry of Education and Science in Bulgaria, annexed to the Law amending and supplementing the Law on pre-school and school education, there is no thorough and convincing analysis that clearly presents the idea and necessity of legal changes. We hope that in the short time until the examination of the second reading of the Law there will be the will to accept our proposals and an adequate response to reflect the possible public discussion and compliance with the positions in society. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u36	Thank you, Ms. Nencheva. - What's the line? Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u37	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My speech will be right for remote training. I will try to challenge some allegations with rational arguments without legitimizing them and entering into the opposition scheme. According to the proposed bill, note: In innovative schools and not in innovative schools as an element of innovation in relation to the organization related to improving quality and improving the results of the training, it is possible to combine with synchronized training from a distance in an electronic environment, but not for more than 20%, which means zero per cent of the required and/or elective classes in one or more classes for which this is applicable. Training in an electronic environment is not an alternative to attendance, it can only complement it. The idea is one hour a day from the curriculum to be conducted online. How exactly these hours will be distributed in the curriculum depends on the organization of the learning process. Innovation must comply with the weekly curriculum. In addition, each school, according to the specifics and possibilities of students and parents, will have the opportunity to choose whether up to 20% of the educational content of all educational subjects or only one subject to apply an electronic environment that is more interesting for students. On the agenda in these hours are: project work, project-based training, problem-based training and others, which include the development of end products such as videos, presentations, collages, interviews, reports or searching for key information from different sources on the Internet. The aim is for students to learn through experience, to think creatively and to apply different problems and problematic situations by applying digital technologies. The conclusion: the legislative change will be tested by some innovative schools in the country, whether and how it works before applying outside this group of schools. Usually when it comes to freedoms, 20% is a reasonable time. We can certainly make the training process more flexible. At the same time, practices will be created for using digital resources and distance training. Issues related to absence in sickness and mission of teachers may be resolved. It is good to consider in advance the way in which the effectiveness of this type of training will be measured to show the results and to make future decisions. Second chance. At the choice of the student, in the presence of the necessary technical and technological means, distance training in an electronic environment for no more than 30 school days may also be carried out for a student enrolled in a daily, evening, completed, individual or combined form of training, as well as in a dual system of training which a student for health or other respectable reasons certified by a document may not attend a school. Distance learning in an electronic environment includes: remote hours, self-preparation, current feedback on the results of training and evaluation. Third possibility. The proposed amendments to the Preschool and School Education Act regulate long-distance learning during influenza and woody vacations and in emergency situations. There won't be any missing material that needs to be compensated. Teachers will be spared the unification of hours, usually at the expense of exercises, through so-called restructuring, will reduce paperwork, parents will really become a partner for obtaining quality education and raising the image of the school and teachers working in it. The extraordinary situation has allowed us to look at education at a new angle. Good results are not due to lack of difficulty, but to the ability to overcome them. Remote training is close to the interests and everyday lives of young people whose living and working environment is saturated with information technology, engages more fully their senses and desire to participate in the educational process. 80% of the information is known to enter human memory through vision and only 20% through hearing. The flexible training schedule in asynchronous training enables students to manage their own time. At the same time, however, there is no... and this is true... the emotional and social connection in and out of school. Students and teachers felt nostalgic for direct communication. What are the advantages for schools? The provision of online training materials is a widely used method among a number of prestigious schools around the world. Many of them have their own training servers, which have educational materials and useful information for their students. Remote training allows for better positioning of the school at national level and increases its reputation and competitiveness. Independence of schools using a common building. In Varna we have 10 schools with a common building. Schools with two-way training are avoided the early rise of students and late return. Last but not least, remote training allows schools to attract famous names, especially in profiled and professional high schools, academic names without having to have their physical presence. Advantages to students. Save them time and money, classes are held at a convenient time for them, opportunity to communicate and exchange information with other children, receive feedback. Modern methods, including interactive electronic trainings, are used in the learning process. Difficulties. Schools and students in the country are too diverse. There is a real danger that certain schools are unable to organize distance training in an electronic environment for a number of reasons: lack of a school platform, lack of devices for teachers and students, lack of ability to work in an electronic environment. There is a risk that certain students from schools who declare willingness to apply training in an electronic environment do not have appropriate devices or the Internet and this immediately puts them at a disadvantage. The digital competences of teachers and students are too different, which also leads to some inequality. Solutions: meaningful training of school teams to enhance digital competences; communication skills; organization of training and learning in a new way; skills to use certain applications and platforms; skills to manage group dynamics in a digital environment [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u38	Guys, I'm gonna have to ask for quiet again. It's too loud.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u39	... to all children and teachers as one of the conditions guaranteeing equal access to e-learning; targeted pre-study of students for learning; personal development and personal responsibility in a situation where they are not in the classroom with a teacher and often have no other adult to observe them; making a base of electronic resources not from e-books and not from the electronic library where sometimes electronic lessons and questionable qualities are shared. Finally, in order to understand the true effectiveness of what has happened as an organisation of the educational process in the last four months, it should not be compared to attendance training. So far, there is no worldwide study to show whether online training is more effective than present. In order to understand the scale of efficiency, some of the conclusions published two days ago by the World Bank must be considered. In a scenario where schools remain closed for five months, alternative training measures are limited and school education returns are 8% per year for all countries. The balance: first, there is a loss of education of 0.6 years, taking into account the quality, which means that the effective duration of education of children is reduced from 7.9 years to 7.3 years. Secondly, in the absence of effective measures to ensure an alternative educational process, each student of the current basic and average will suffer an average loss of future income of $872 per year, or about $16,000 for their active work life. Third, without taking effective healing measures after returning children to school, the expected loss worldwide is about 10 trillion dollars at prices since 2017 because of the lower quality of learning, the lost time due to the closure of schools and the expected process of active school dropout. This is about 16% of public spending on school education around the world. Fourth, about 25% increase in the share of children at a secondary stage is expected, which will remain below the minimum level of literacy, given the large share of Bulgarian students who have problems with basic level of literacy in PISA. Such a development would be very, very worrying. This is an average scenario. There's more pessimistic. I call on this subject for us to look at the broad picture.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Petrova. [[Applause from GERB.]] - What's the line? Any other speeches? Mrs. Anastasova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u41	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Deputy Minister, it will soon be four years from the entry into force of the Preschool and School Education Act. There is no question that the education system needed reform and the Law was adopted for this purpose. That is also the purpose of these amendments to the Law that we are discussing today. Why am I starting my speech like this? Because I believe that any change in the Law should lead to a faster achievement of the main goal, which is why it was adopted. Today's proposed major amendments to the Law concern compulsory pre-school education for children at the age of four and regulation of the acquired distance learning. In terms of compulsory education of four-year-olds. Doesn't the words even sound strange to you: compulsory preschool education?! I'm asking this question because he's not from today. As soon as the Law was passed, we had serious objections from his name. Not only were we pronouncing prominent educators, university professors, professors, academics, we cannot talk about education in kindergarten! That's not an educational degree. We can talk about pre-school training. Why, then, are we surprised at the reaction of many parents, however you explain that all of this will be in kindergarten and it will be in the form of a game? First, you tell them it's mandatory. Second, it is an education for four - year - old children, some of whom are still unable to speak properly at that age. There is no question that such a measure is certainly necessary, especially for children whose mother tongue is not Bulgarian, but its imposition as compulsory causes a negative reaction. For five and six-year-old kindergarten is mandatory now. Do we have full range? No! School education is mandatory. Do we have full range on the kids? No! Why do we think the same set-up would work for four-year-olds?! Rather, we need incentives for those parents whose children attend kindergarten, with tangible incentives. I believe that in the reasons of the Bill we should have seen more serious statistics, which will give us an idea of the number of four-year-old children who are not covered in kindergartens by field at the moment, possible capacity on the basis to be covered, where problems are emerging in settlements, what is the horizon for solving the problem. Is it like with the full - time organization, it was supposed to happen by 2020, and then it was postponed until 2027? Minister Valchev in March 2019 says: "In general, in large cities we have no problem with access to education, but if we want to move to a single regime in large cities, more schools need to be built, action has been taken for this. And he states that at the moment about 300 schools in 65 municipalities are studying in two shifts. So besides new schools, we need new kindergartens, especially in big cities. Has this account been made? The minister is talking about 50 kindergartens to be built, and 50 are going to upgrade. Where are they? In which cities and regions? There, in these cities and regions, have these accounts been made? Kids in big cities are already 30 or more in a group. What attention are we talking about and what individual approach to each child? This is what I expected to be in the motives, not psychological explanations of the need for the measure. Moreover, we have said this many times and on many occasions after something is mandatory, it must be exempt from fees and not only for the socially weak families, but for all 4-, 5- and 6-year-old children who attend kindergarten, because when we talk about financing private schools from the budget, we say that they are all children of Bulgaria, but when they go to kindergarten, state or municipal, or when they receive children's benefits, they are obviously not all Bulgarian children. In a word, this measure is good, but I do not see the resource to be applied and after two years.. at least in the motives you have not tried to convince us of this, and I do not think that the efforts have been made to seek incentives rather than to make the measure compulsory. On the changes related to so-called distance learning, I agree that distance learning is a way to react in situations that have occurred to us and which are not excluded in the future, including in ordinary influenza or woody vacations. However, I do not think that we should expand it, whether it is only for innovative schools, but not to mention the opinion of the employers' organization of directors, where even the scope of children in second grade distance training is spoken. I'm not sure this position reflects the opinion of the majority of directors. I am concerned by those who believe that the current epidemic is an opportunity to make the long-awaited leap of education forward. They claim that we can no longer go back to traditional education and that the better we can hope for is hybrid education - part of the hours being present and part remote. If this really is the philosophy of the Ministry of Education and Science, say it openly, and do not try to push it through the backyard only in innovative schools. I do not think that texts should remain 20% hours of distance learning in innovative schools. Why? Because our children are growing an antisocial generation enough time in the network anyway, because the community is forming the future person, not isolation, because for the years of transition, the dividing lines in our society have become too much in the education system too. Schools were divided into elite and mediocre and therefore preferred and not preferred, to those whose budgets allow them to develop forward, and to those who barely survive, innovative and ordinary. With the amendments to the Law it is not clear why you give the right to 20% of the hours of distance learning only in innovative schools. They are not prevented by the existing texts in the Law and by the approval of such innovation by the Ministry of Education and Science to hold such hours. Today, more and more young people are required to get a good specialty and earn money. The idea of the school was lost as a community forming future citizens who would be able to continue their lives according to the choice of each stage, but with solid moral principles and a sense of human solidarity and common good. In this sense, without everyday life at school, there can be no real training, and not to mention the upbringing, this does not happen through the screens. As one teacher says: no platform, no one, can change a child's life, that can only make him a good teacher. And yes, perhaps in the future the development of the world will force us to go to all this by not thinking that this will be the best for the world, but we do not need to accelerate these processes ourselves. So far, pedagogical practice has proven that the most successful for socialization and training is direct communication, living contact. Listen to people who have faced thousands of life cases of children who are never solved remotely. Let us really make the Bulgarian school a favorite and preferred place for children with its base, with our teachers, with the methods of teaching and evaluation, and not trying to distance them from it. There must be schools and colleagues who applaud this proposal, but they are not the dominant part of the college and the schools I am convinced of. This will be another division between children and schools. Make an effort to raise the quality of education where it is low. This is more important than showing 10, 20, 100 or 500 schools in the country, which, figuratively speaking, are really at the beginning of the 21st century. We have to work the other 2,000 to get out of the 20th century. With the changes relating to the work of the boards in the proposed texts, we agree, they were necessary. To conclude, we will not support the proposed changes at first reading and we will make our proposals between first and second readings. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Anastasova. - What's the line? There are no lines. We continue with the speeches. Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u43	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! We all know the line of Winnie the Pooh: The more, the more. In four words, this is the leading motive in the proposed amendments to the Preschool and School Education Act. The more opportunities children have, the more successful they will be, the more we invest, and early in them, the better we will all live, the more knowledge and skills children have, the better they will develop, the more rights they have, the more they will achieve. And that's not what Pooh Bear said. That's what statistics say. We also see this from the educational systems around the world that we turn to when we want to synchronize our watches for one policy or another. I will not dwell on the benefits of compulsory kindergarten, because much has already been said on this subject, but I will only complete one thing that I did not hear mentioned. In Bulgaria, the achievements of children who have gone to kindergartens for three or more years are much better than those who have never attended kindergarten, and according to the survey PIRLS since 2016, the difference is with 75 points more than 75 points have children who have attended kindergarten three years or more, so when we talk about literacy, let's keep in mind this result. This is not a study conducted in Bulgaria, it is an international study. The introduction of the compulsory kindergarten for four-year-olds means one thing: more opportunities for all children, and when we talk about all children, it is really about all children, all children to get the right to an equal start, all children to get more opportunities for better literacy and therefore more skills. In this room, exactly ten years ago, I had the honor of defending the compulsory kindergarten for five-year-olds. I remember, colleagues, that even then the objections were the same... whether we were prepared, whether we would have more choices. Ten years after that, we don't seem to be asking these questions, on the contrary, arguing about four-year-olds. So, yes, some of you always have worries, think things are bad, chaotic and so on, but let's be a little more positive, have more faith in the system, because it's useful for all of us. I'm not going to pass on the question of whether the system is ready and that's what we're talking about here: if there are seats, if there are teachers, if there are resources. And I will stress again that the measure enters into force from 2022 to 2023. Until then the system will be prepared everywhere, we have the assurance of this by all municipalities. Of course, these municipalities, which are ready and can now start from the beginning of the next school year, because this will mean supporting the municipalities to implement their policies with regard to the youngest children. Something very important I would like to stress, as there is a lot of talk about the big cities of Sofia, too, has been mentioned. If the mayor of Sofia had stood in the position that after something was gone, nothing should change and be done, then today we would be quoting our data from 2006, when in Sofia we had a new kindergarten and a whole list of closed and sold out. I will not continue on this subject, but let us be as objective as possible. The Sofia Municipality catches up very quickly and overcomes the consequences of the process of eradication of kindergartens, in conditions of constantly coming and increasing as a number of young people and young families. My favorite theme is about parents' rights. No one can limit any parental rights, any changes to the laws, and that must be clear to everyone. And at the moment, the Preschool and School Education Act gives parents all sorts of choices. They can choose part-time activities, they can choose a half-day form of training in kindergarten. Those of them who support so-called home education or wish their children to be in a parental cooperative can enlist their children in an autonomous form of organization, so we have all sorts of forms. But that's not what I want to ask. Were parents'rights restricted during the emergency that ended just a month ago? No, they weren't! On the contrary, the parents entered and participated in the entire process. In a few days the parents became allies, became partners of the teachers and of the entire education. And ultimately for a few weeks with several platforms, with several Cyber groups, with electronic home parents gave teachers what they always wanted and knew they deserved respect, respect for their work, for their efforts, respect for our goals and for our common goals. Some colleagues mentioned fees for kindergartens. I will not dwell in detail on this subject, but what I will say is that the attitude towards preschool education is within the priorities of each local authority. Colleagues, at the moment we have municipalities where kindergartens are free. And at the moment we have in almost every municipality I am sure that even if I could bravely say every municipality, there are policies to take full charge of certain families, of those who are many children, of orphan children, of children whose parents have reduced productivity, and so on. It's also in Sofia, and it's in many other cities. But one thing I will say is, in these municipalities, for example, where kindergartens are free of charge, what would be the fair solution for these kindergartens? What do they get? That is why our opinion is that really municipalities, as they are doing at the moment, must be supported. Yes, they must be supported in their efforts to implement their local policies. Whether these will be free fees, whether they will be more kindergarten buildings, each municipality has its needs, and, yes, municipalities should be supported, as this year also happened with the changes in the State Budget Act. You know that we all voted nearly 100 million for preschool education to receive municipalities. I will also say a few words about the second change "the expansion of remote education through the amendments to the Law. Why am I talking about remote education? Let us remember that the remote form of training has been present in the Preschool and School Education Act for four years now. I won't go into details as to how much this form has been applied so far. Maybe if we had developed it in those four years, it would have been a little easier for us now, but we're looking forward anyway, not in the past. It has already been said that this is an opportunity, in certain situations, for exceptional influenza epidemics and so on, to have the opportunity to conduct the training, that is to say very clearly that the bill does not change the current system, nor the methods, the types of training. The bill gives more opportunities suppose students remain in the classrooms. The school is the undisputed institution, but it is already receiving some additional opportunities. Many fairy tales were so distinguished, they spoke and heard about whether to have up to 20 percent in the classes in innovative schools, to be held remotely. They heard themselves in space, not in this room, different versions of how children would sleep more, get up later, not stay in school until dark, and so on. However, let us be clear about the facts. And at the moment, the Law allows a school to offer such innovation. Let's not talk about innovative schools, because a school becomes innovative if it offers and it is approved. In fact, what the Law does and lawyers believe is necessary is even to limit this possibility by introducing a regulation to 20% of the hours being held remotely. So please don't tell all sorts of stories about how from tomorrow, you see, all schools and all children have to learn 20% remotely. I heard things like that that the kids are gonna sleep late, and so on. This is not false news.. that is a frank lie, which, yes, said it and colleagues on the left, creates a confusion in the system that does not help anyone at all. But we must, of course, recognise that e-training has been part of our training system for a long time, and thanks to the teachers I thanked in the Commission, I will also use this high platform on behalf of all of us, to thank them for their efforts and for everything they have achieved during the state of emergency. This is indeed commendable, and it is also worthy of support. And allow me, as I started with a line of Pooh Bear, so to end with one, not quite literally, of Christopher Robin, when you've gone out halfway, it would be a shame to give up what you've achieved. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Damyanova. - What's the line? Mr. Mirchev, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u45	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Damyanova, you and your group speak very well from this tribune about education. Somehow you brought me back four years ago when we then passed the brand-new law on preschool and school education. And here I will fix Mr. Bogdanov, who said that we are now reforming problems for 30 years. No, we are currently trying to deal with problems that are from the last four years, because four years ago one of the full reforms that GERB has been doing in the National Assembly is precisely changes in the educational system. You then changed the obsolete Law on People's Education to the Law on pre-school and school education, ensuring that we will see the quality of education in Bulgaria rising as soon as possible. Unfortunately, the last external evaluation after the 7th grade confirmed the trend that the results are getting worse and worse in the system of our education and that the reforms you made back then do not lead to anything good, but lead to deepening of the problems in our education and in society. And because you also talked about the fourth grade, I want to tell you that Sofia has been managed for more than ten years by GERB. One of the main refrains of GERB has always been in Sofia, we build kindergartens. I don't know what you're building, but ten thousand kids weren't accepted for another year. This is a brooch that you squeal, but the horror and hell that parents experience when they have to record their children in kindergartens and in school is huge, so you don't solve any problem in Sofia. And because Professor Hristov told you that one of the main elements of education is socialization and education, I will remind you that... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm finishing a sentence. I would remind you that in the original version of your Preschool and School Education Act, there was not once mentioned the word education. The more, the more and more you said. Yes, we see the breakdown of Bulgarian education the more, the more.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u46	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u47	Only half a sentence. You are doing one thing.. you want the education of the Bulgarian children equal to the education of the sleeping person with the nightstand full of five hundred euro banknotes [[Shouting from GERB: "Eee! "]] I'm a simple man. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u48	Another line? A hole, Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u49	Dear Mr. Mirchev! I am pleased that in this term, colleagues who are representatives of the Committee on Education and Science from your parliamentary group are more adequate. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] Your line has shown that to this day you have not read the Law! On the contrary, if you understood at least a little bit of the system, you would know that the results of a reform in education, especially in school education, the horizon of this educational reform, are a minimum of 12 years, for the higher five. So then we will be able to actually follow the results of the new law, not to mention that it in a large part still enters into force with the corresponding support About the Law, by the way, you said that it did not meet the word "education" but it occurs so many times.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u50	Education, upbringing.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u51	You said education, you must have meant education. I accept. It is very clear in the Law that the process of education is a process of training, education and socialization. And that was exactly the opinion of the community teachers who are currently in kindergartens. This was their request, which we satisfied. Well, let's, if you want it to be an education, what should we call educators? So BSP wants teachers in kindergartens to be called educators? This is a reduction of pre-school education, which in Bulgaria has extremely many and good traditions. Don't do it! In terms of Sofia. I would just like to remind you that at the moment 44 thousand children attend kindergartens in Sofia " 194 kindergartens in a total of 272 buildings. At the moment 11 new kindergartens are being built, we have an extension of two separate nurseries, and another kindergarten in the Triaditsa district is about to begin. The districts are different, you can certainly find a reference for this, if not I will provide it to you. Another 17 kindergartens are planned to be built in the next two years in Sofia. Since you are talking about statistics and want statistics, I will also tell you how many closed kindergartens were from 1992 to 2000 in Sofia. Do you know how many there are? Forty-four indoor kindergartens in Sofia. Forty-four kindergartens! I am not going to talk about the number of kindergartens that Mr. Borisov as mayor and Mrs. Fandakova as deputy mayor found as unfit for training, for residence of children, i.e. with different prescriptions from fire and other bodies. Let's take into account the facts when we speak and not to speak and say the truths of this tribune in order to earn a political PR, as there are elections following, I also know in BSP, they are important, but let's not use education as a political PR. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Damyanova. Are there any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Preschool and School Education Act with an importer of the Council of Ministers. They voted 161 MPs: 105 against 4, abstention 52. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u53	Colleagues, we continue with the next item on the agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ACCEPT PROCEEDING PROCEDURAL RULES FOR CONDITIONS AND PROCUREMENT OF CANDIDATES FOR THE SUPERVISION OF NATIONAL OSSIBUTION, PRESENTATION AND PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF DOCUMENTS AND RECOGNITION OF CANDIDATES IN THE COMMISSION FOR TRUDA, SOCIAL AND DEMOGRAPHIC POLICY, AND THE PROCEEDING PROCEDURE FOR THE SELECTION OF PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTION. Mr. Ademov, please submit the report to the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a decision to adopt procedural rules on the terms and conditions for the proposal of candidates for the Governor of the National Insurance Institute, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee at a meeting held on 8 July 2020 discussed and discussed a draft decision on the adoption of Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for the proposal of candidates for the Governor of the National Insurance Institute, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly. The adoption of the Rules of Procedure is necessary due to the expiry of the mandate of the Governor of the National Insurance Institute on 29 July 2020. In accordance with art. 37, para. 1 of the Social Security Code The National Assembly should elect a new sub-governeur of the National Insurance Institute. Upon conclusion of the discussion and the vote held with results: 20 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 93, para.7 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the following draft decision (with the accompanying five annexes of model declarations): Project! DECISION adopting Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for the proposal of candidates for the Governor of the National Insurance Institute, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy and the procedure for selection by the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in connection with art. 37, para. 1 of the Code of Social Security and art. 93, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED It shall adopt Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for the submission of candidates for the sub-government of the National Insurance Institute, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly. I. Offering candidates for the sub-government of the National Insurance Institute and submitting their documents. 1. Proposals for a vice-president of the National Insurance Institute shall be made by Members of the National Insurance Institute or by parliamentary groups. Bulgarian NGOs may make proposals for a deputy of the National Insurance Institute to the MPs and parliamentary groups. When a MP or a parliamentary group makes a proposal based on a proposal from a non-governmental organisation, it shall note that. The proposals shall be submitted in writing to the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee through the President of the National Assembly within 7 days of the adoption of procedural rules by the National Assembly. 2. The proposals for a sub-manager of the National Insurance Institute shall be accompanied by written arguments that justify the high professional and moral qualities of the applicant concerned. The following documents shall apply to the proposal: (a) written consent of the applicant in accordance with Annex 1 to the decision; (b) written consent of the applicant under art. 27, para. 2 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the Declaration of Membership of Bulgarian Citizens to State Security and the Intelligence Services of the Bulgarian People's Army according to Annex No 2 to the Decision; (c) a detailed CV; (d) certified by the applicant a copy of a diploma for completed higher education; (e) a statement by the applicant that there are no circumstances under art. 39, para. 1, t. 1, t. 2, p. 4 et c. 5 of the Social Security Code, in accordance with Annex 3 to the Decision. 3. The circumstances of art. 39, para. 1, t. 3 of the Social Security Code shall be established by the administration of the National Assembly. II. Public disclosure of documents. 1. The submitted proposal, together with the documents attached to it, shall be published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly without delay, but not later than 7 days before the hearing. 2. The publication of the proposal and documents shall be carried out in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act. 3. Non-profit legal entities registered for public use and professional organisations may submit opinions to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy no later than 7 days before the hearing of candidates on the proposed candidates, including questions to be asked. 4. In terms of t. 3 mass media may send to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy questions to the candidates to be asked. 5. Anonymous opinions and alerts shall not be considered. 6. The opinions and questions are sent by post to the city of Sofia, Knyaz Square, Alexander I "No," Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Commission, or by e-mail: ktsdp@parliament.bg. The opinions and questions are published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly, subject to the Personal Data Protection Act and the Classified Information Protection Act. III. Perform a preliminary check under the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. 1. Candidates shall be checked for belonging to the bodies referred to in art. 1 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The request for prior verification under art. 27, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army is made by the Chairman of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. 2. The results of the verification shall be published on the specialized thematic site on the website of the National Assembly. IV. It's a hearing of the candidates. 1. Before listening to the proposed candidates, the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee shall verify the documents submitted and whether the candidates meet the relevant requirements for taking up the post. 2. The hearing is held in an open meeting of the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee, which is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. 3. The candidates shall be submitted by the importers of the proposals in alphabetical order of the names of the candidates for a sub-sovereigner within 2 minutes of a candidate. The presentation also includes details of specific preparation, motivation, public reputation and public support for the applicant. 4. Candidates for a sub-manager present a concept of the activities of the National Insurance Institute within 10 minutes of a candidate. 5. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy shall hold debates on the proposals made. The Members of the National Assembly shall place their questions separately to the candidates for the sub-government in alphabetical order of the names of the candidates within 2 minutes of the Member of the National Assembly for a candidate. Upon completion of the questions asked to the candidate concerned by all Members of the National Assembly, the applicant shall be responsible within 10 minutes. 6. The Chairman of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy shall ask in summary the questions of the persons under art. 93, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, which have raised questions that have not been answered. 7. Answer of the applicant concerned to the questions referred under point (c) 6 to 5 minutes. 8. A full stenographic protocol is drawn up from the hearing, which is published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly. 9. The Commission shall draw up within the meaning of art. 93, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and submit a report from the hearing. The Commission shall apply to the Report a list of candidates participating in the hearing, alphabetically arranged by their own names. The report shall also be accompanied by draft decisions for the selection of each candidate to be the head of the National Insurance Institute. 10. The refusal of a candidate to participate in the hearing or withdrawal of an application by the importer shall not suspend the procedure with regard to the other candidates. V. Election of the Governor of the National Insurance Institute by the National Assembly 1. The sitting is broadcast in real time on the website of the National Assembly. The proposed and heard candidates are present at the meeting by a decision of the National Assembly. 2. The National Assembly shall hear the report of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. 3. The importers of proposals shall present the candidates for a sub-sovereigner within 2 minutes for each candidate. 4. Discussions shall be held in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. 5. The vote is evident through the computerised voting system. If there are several candidates for the post, the vote shall be carried out in alphabetical order on the applicant's own names, unless the National Assembly decides otherwise. 6. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. If several candidates for the post have received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly, the candidate who received the most votes for the post shall be elected. 7. Where none of the candidates for the post receives the necessary votes, a re-vote shall take place, in which the two candidates who received the most votes for the post shall take part. 8. If none of the candidates for the post receive the necessary votes in the second vote, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. 9. When one of the candidates for the post refuses to participate in the election before voting on his candidacy by the National Assembly, and he is the only candidate, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. 10. If there is no candidate for office, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. VI. Obligation to declare incompatibility under art. 35, para. 1, t. 1 and a change in the declared circumstances under art. 35, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on Countering Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property 1. Upon completion of the selection procedure in accordance with Section V, the selected governor shall submit a declaration of incompatibility under art. 35, para. 1, t. 1 of the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property in connection with art. 39, para. 1 of the Code of Social Security in a template according to Annex 4 to the Decision. 2. In the event of a change in the declared circumstances of the declaration referred to in point (a) of paragraph 1, the customs authorities of the Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the European Union of the other Member States of the European Union of the other Member States of the European Union of the European Union and of the other Member States of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union, of the one part, of the one part, of the other part, of the other part, of the European Union, of the other part, of the European Union, of the other part, of the other part, of the European Union, of the other part, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Dear Mr. President, following Annex 1 to the Decision, Annex 2 to the Decision, Annex 3 to the Decision, Annex 4 to the Decision and Annex 5 to the decision of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u55	Thank you, dear Mr. Ademov. I am opening the debate on the proposed project. Are there any speeches, colleagues? I can't see. I close the debate before it starts and we move on to the vote. I put to the vote a draft decision to adopt Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for the administration of the National Insurance Institute, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee, as well as the procedure for the selection of candidates by the National Assembly, as proposed by the President of the Commission, together with the Annexes of No 1 " 5. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. I'm calling a half-hour break. We'll continue after that with a t. Eight on the agenda. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u56	Colleagues, Let's continue with: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR STATE. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The bill was adopted in the first vote on 5 June 2020. Mr. Kanev? [[Reply from the National Representative Petar Kanev.]] Yeah, we don't, but maybe when they hear that you and I are already here getting ready to do a roll call... [[Reply from the National Representative Petar Kanev.]] You're ready, I'm ready for a roll call too. There won't be any problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u57	I think we can get started a little bit, guys. You, Mr. Kanev, will present the bill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u58	On the basis of art. 49 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I propose for admission to the Chamber... [[Reply.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u59	The proposal can be made and then I will put it to the vote a little later.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u60	...of Lachezar Borisov "Deputy Minister of Economy," and Silvana Lyubenova "Director of the Directorate." I suggest we get started.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u61	Start on the bill and we'll do the votes in a few minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u62	Report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on State Reserves and Wartime Stocks, No 002-01-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 May 2020. On 5 June 2020, the European Parliament adopted a vote on the first vote on 5 June 2020. The Act for amendment and supplement of the Law on State Reserves and Wartime Stocks (prom., SG No. (see Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission proposes to create a new § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 11, para. 3 after the word "Traders" is added the state-owned company "State-owned oil company." The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1, which shall become § 2: ..................................................... Chapter 2 shall be created with art. 11a "11e": ..Chapter 2................................................................ State-owned oil company Art. 11a. (1) State-owned oil company shall be established with State-owned enterprise status within the meaning of art. 62, para. 3 of the Commercial Law, hereinafter referred to as the "Sales Act'. (2) The entity shall be a legal entity with its registered office in Sofia. An entity is not a trading company and does not form and distribute profit. (3) The structure, structure and operation of the undertaking, powers and duties of the management bodies shall be determined by rules adopted by the Council of Ministers. (4) The terms, procedures and time limits for the interaction between the Agency and the undertaking shall be governed by an agreement. Art. 11b. (1) The main subject of business of the enterprise shall be: 1. creation, preservation, preservation, renewal and sale of state reserves and wartime reserves of oil and petroleum products under this law; 2. creation, storage, renewal and sale of oil and petroleum reserves under art. 2, para. 1 and 2 of the Oil and Oil Stocks Act; 3. management, maintenance, operation and construction of oil bases for storage of reserves and reserves of oil and petroleum products. (2) The entity shall also carry out other activities that provide or complement the main activity. (3) The State shall grant the property to the enterprise public and private government property, determined by a decision of the Council of Ministers. (4) By a decision of the Council of Ministers, the enterprise may set up commercial companies, including with a non-cash contribution, representing the right of ownership of the property provided to it, private State ownership, for the pursuit of commercial activity relating to management, maintenance, operation and construction of oil and petroleum oil and gas stations, as well as commercial activity with alternative fuels. (5) The activity of the enterprise in carrying out the tasks relating to the main subject of activity shall be financed by: 1. income from the activity; 2. transfers from the state budget; 3. other proceeds determined by a regulatory act. (6) The funds under para. 5 shall be spent for the purpose of carrying out the business and maintenance of the undertaking. Art. 11c. The management bodies of the enterprise shall be: 1. the Management Board; 2. the Executive Director. Art. 11 years. Minister of Economy: 1. exercise the ownership rights of the State in the enterprise; 2. appoint and dismiss the members of the Management Board and the Executive Director of the undertaking. Art. 11e. (1) No enforcement may be directed against the property of public government property granted to the undertaking. (2) An entity may not be privatized and insolvency proceedings cannot be opened against it. (3) The funds and operations of the enterprise shall be included in the consolidated fiscal programme as funds and operations of other economic entities under art. 13, para. 4 of the Public Finance Act and are not part of the state budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u63	Are there any speeches on this paragraph? I can't see. Then let's move on to the vote. Let us first vote on the tolerance procedure. Vote 81 MPs: 79, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. I now vote on the name of the Law, the creation of a new § 1 and § 1 in the version of the Commission, which becomes § 2. Vote 79 MPs: for 76, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u64	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2, which shall become § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced The State reserves and the wartime reserves of oil and petroleum products shall be created by the enterprise by type and quantity determined by the decisions under art. 13 and 14................................................................................................. Under § 3 there is a proposal from the National Representative Daniela Saveklieva, made in accordance with Article 3. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 17 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 2: The conservation and conservation of state reserves of oil and petroleum products shall be carried out by the undertaking by type and quantity determined by the decision under art. 13. 2. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 3 and in it, the words.......................................................................................................... are replaced with................................................................................................................................................ The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 4, which becomes § 5, by proposing that the words of the State-owned company The Commission proposes to create a new § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 19 the following amendments and additions are 1. A new para is being created. 3 and 4: The State reserves released from oil and petroleum products under para. 1, t. Art. 1 and 2 and art. 20 shall be sold by the undertaking in order laid down in the rules of art. 11a, para. 3. (4) If the decision of the Council of Ministers or of an authority authorised by it is adopted on the basis of para. 1, t. 3, 4 and 5 the company provides the created state reserves of oil and petroleum products free of charge to the agency with an obligation to recover from the undertaking. 2. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 5. 3. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 6 and in it after the word "traders" is added. 4. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 7 and in it after the word "traders" is added.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u65	Are there any speeches on the paragraphs so presented? I can't see. I shall put to the vote § 2 in the version of the Commission which shall become § 3; § 3 in the version of the Commission which shall become § 4; § 4 by importer, such as the text of the State-owned company Vote 82 MPs: 80, none, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u66	Under § 5, there is a proposal from the National Representative Daniela Saveklieva, made in accordance with Article 5. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5, which shall become § 7: .................................................... Article 22 is amended as follows: Art. 22. (1) The storage and conservation of wartime stocks shall be carried out by the Agency. (2) The conservation and conservation of the wartime stocks of oil and petroleum products shall be carried out by the undertaking by type and quantity determined by the decision under art. 14. (3) The Agency and the enterprise may entrust the storage and conservation of wartime stocks through a contract to traders and organisations for the wartime tasks assigned to them by an act of the Council of Ministers or to traders and organisations designated on a competitive basis. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 6, which becomes § 8, by proposing that the words The Commission proposes to create a new § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 3 and 4: "Released wartime reserves of oil and petroleum products under para. 1, t. Art. 1 and 2 and art. 25 shall be sold by the undertaking in order laid down in the rules of art. 11a, para. 3. (4) If the decision of the Council of Ministers or of an authority authorised by it is adopted on the basis of para. 1, t. 3 The company provides the created wartime reserves of oil and petroleum products free of charge to the agency with the obligation of subsequent recovery by the undertaking. 2. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 5. 3. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 6 and in it after the word "traders" is added. 4. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 7 and in it after the word "traders" is added. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7, which shall become § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 27, para. 2 and 3 after the word "traders" is added. The Commission proposes to create a new § 11: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 29, para. 1 after the word "traders" shall be added. The Commission proposes to create a new § 12: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 31, para. 4 after the word "Traders" the words "Art." 19th para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 19th para. 7s and the words............................................................................................... 24, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 24, para. The following points are inserted after point 7 The Commission proposes to create a new § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In § 1, t. 8 of the additional provision after the word
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u67	Are there any statements on the paragraphs of the bill thus presented? I can't see. I shall put to the vote § 5 which shall become § 7 with the version of the Commission; § 6 which shall become § 8 with the version of the Commission; a new § 9 on a proposal from the Commission; § 7 which shall become § 10 with the version of the Commission and the new paragraphs 11, 12 and 13 on a proposal from the Commission. Vote 87 MPs: 85, none, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u68	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. According to § 8 there is a proposal from the MPs Daniela Saveklieva and Dimitar Boychev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Saveklieva, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8, which shall become § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... In the Oil and Oil Stocks Act (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 2, para. 3 words "State Agency" "State Reserves and Wartime Stocks" are replaced by "State Enterprise" "State Oil Company." 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 3, para. 1 and 2 all over the word "State Agency" "State Reserves and Wartime Stocks" are replaced by a state-owned company "State Oil Company." 3. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 3a: Art. 3a. State-owned oil company "State oil company" shall perform the functions of a central stock management structure which: 1. create, store, update and sell stocks of oil and petroleum products under art. 2, para. 1 and 2 and informs the results of the activities carried out the State Agency of State Reserves and Wartime Stocks. 2. publish preliminary information under the product categories under art. 2 for the conditions and quantities of stocks for which it may undertake to store for debtors, economic operators and central stock management structures of other Member States of the European Union. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 2, p. 6 words "State Agency" "State Reserve and Wartime Stocks" shall be replaced by "State Enterprise" "State Oil Company"; (b) A new para shall be created. 8. For the purposes of the statistical reporting to the European Commission, as well as for carrying out current stock control, the State-owned oil company shall submit monthly to the State-owned reserve and wartime stocks up to the 15th of the current month information on: 1. the really created and stored stocks of emergency situations and/or specific stocks by species, quantities and place of storage on the territory of the country in the oil bases managed by it and/or in warehouses registered under art. 38, and in the territory of other Member States of the European Union; 2. the emergency stocks stored by him at the expense of debtors; 3. its emergency stocks at the expense of other Member States of the European Union; 4. information by type and quantity of products under art. 2 for which it may undertake to store for debtors, economic operators or central stock management structures of other Member States of the European Union. (c) paragraph 9 is amended as follows: The State-owned oil company is presenting to the State Agency State Reserve and wartime stocks annually by 15 February information on purchased and sold stocks by type and quantity, as well as stocks by 1 January and 31 December in the previous calendar year. (d) the current para. 8 becomes para. 10 and in it the words "al." 3 "7" is replaced by "al." 3.. 9............... 9................................................................ 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5, para. 1, t. 2 the words "supporting' shall be replaced by "maintaining'. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6, para. 1 the 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by (a) point 3 is repealed; (b) c. 8 the word "agency" is replaced by the state-owned company "State-owned oil company." (c) point 13 is repealed; (d) c. 20 words with the central structures shall be replaced by the relevant authorities. (e) point 22 is repealed. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 2: (aa) c. 3 the word "agency" is replaced by "state enterprise" "State oil company"; (bb) point 10 is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u69	Mrs. Saveklieva continues the presentation of the paragraph.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u70	..10. issue orders for use and orders for recovery of emergency stocks and target stocks created and managed by the State-owned company (c) points 11 and 13 are repealed; (dd) c. 14 after the word "supplied" is added to the state-owned company "State-owned oil company"; (b) in para. 4 words submitted for management of the agency shall be replaced by those managed by the State-owned company State-owned oil company. 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 after the word "supplied" is added the state-owned company "State-owned oil company"; (b) in para. 2 the words of the Ministry of Finance shall be deleted. 10. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) in the text before t. 1 sentence first, the words "from the agency" shall be replaced by the State-owned company "State-owned oil company"; (b) in para. 2 all over the word "the agency" is replaced by the state-owned company "State-owned oil company"; (c) in para. 3 and 4 all over the word "al." 6 and 7' are replaced by "al'. 6, 7 and 9. 11. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13, para. 1 the word "agency" is replaced by "state enterprise" "State oil company." 12. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15, para. 3, p. 2 the word "agency" is replaced by "state enterprise" "State oil company." 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by (a) c. 1 the word "the agency" is replaced by the state enterprise "State oil company" (b) c. 3 words submitted for management of the agency shall be replaced by the State-owned company State-owned company State-owned company State-owned oil company, the words "Saves" of the agency shall be replaced by "Saves" of the State-owned enterprise State-owned oil company, for the stocks of debtors with warehouse recording, the words "central stock management structures" shall be taken into account and after the words "the European Union" shall be added with an act of acceptance. 14. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) in para. 1, t. 1 after the words. 38 is added as well as to the State-owned oil company. (b) paragraph 3 is repealed; (c) in para. 4 t. 5 the word "written" and the words "supplied" as well as the commitment to submit monthly information on the stocks held on its territory of the debtor during the period of storage are deleted. 15. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) in para. 1 sentence, first sentence, the word "agency" is replaced by the State-owned company "State-owned oil company" and the words "determined stocks" shall be replaced by its designated stocks, the words "central stock management structure of another Member State of the European Union" shall be replaced by "other Member States of the European Union" and in a sentence second, the words "the other State" shall be replaced by "the other Member State" shall be replaced by "the European Union Member States"; (b) in para. The first sentence is then added after a written request by the executive director of the State-owned company. In a sentence, the second word is replaced by the proposal. 16. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) in para. 1, in the text before t. 1 after the word "quest" shall be added to the Chair of the Agency. (b) in para. 2 sentence second words except in the case of art. 18, para. the following points are inserted after point (a) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (c) para. 3 is canceled. 17. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) in para. 1 the word "agency" is replaced by "state enterprise" "State oil company"; (b) paragraph 2 is amended as follows: The Chairman of the Agency, following a written request from the Executive Director of the State-owned oil company, proposed to the Council of Ministers to adopt a decision to determine the type and quantity of the targeted stocks and the duration of their maintenance, which cannot be shorter than one year. The proposal is agreed with the Minister of Energy. 18. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) in para. 1 words submitted for management of the agency shall be replaced by those managed by the State-owned company State-owned oil company. (b) in para. The second sentence of the sentence of the second sentence of the words the own quantities agency in warehouses provided to it for management is replaced by the State-owned oil company for own quantities in the warehouses operated by it and, in a sentence, the fourth words for the agency according to its terms and conditions, shall be replaced by the State-owned oil company, the State-owned oil company, according to its terms; (c) in para. 5 words submitted to the management of the agency shall be replaced by those managed by the State-owned company State-owned oil company. (d) in para. 6 the words "supposed" shall be replaced by "state oil company" and the word "supplied" shall be replaced by "supplied oil company" and the word "supplied" shall be replaced by "supplied oil company." 19. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 32 the word "agency" is replaced by the state-owned company "State oil company" and after the word "between" the "agency" is added and the "state" is added. 20. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) in para. 2 the word "Custom" is replaced by "Custom" and finally added after receiving a written request from the executive director of the State-owned oil company. (b) in para. 3 the words "Saves of the Agency" are replaced by "Saves of the State Enterprise" "State Oil Company." 21. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 35, para. The 12th sentence first words are to be taken into account by the State-owned company. The State-owned company is to be replaced by the State-owned company and the word "State-owned company" is replaced by the presentation and, in a sentence, the words "Saver" shall be replaced by the State-owned company "State-owned company" shall be replaced by the State-owned company and the word "Saver" shall be replaced by the "Saver" shall be replaced by the State-owned company. 22. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) in para. 1 after the word "supplied" is added the state-owned company "State-owned oil company"; (b) in para. 2 after the words. 38 is added as well as state-owned oil company. (c) in para. 4 after the word "Sourcekeepers" is added to the State-owned company "State oil company"; (d) in para. 5 after the word "Supreme" is added the state-owned company "State oil company." 23. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) in para. 2 the word "the agency" is replaced by the state enterprise "State oil company" (b) in para. 3 after the word "supplied" is added to the State-owned company "State-owned oil company"; (c) in para. 4. (aa) in the text before t. 1 the word "the agency" is replaced by the state enterprise "State oil company" (bb) c. 1 the words "provided for management of the agency" shall be replaced by "managed by the state enterprise" "State oil company" and the words "the chairman of the agency" shall be replaced by "the executive director of the enterprise." (c) c. 2 the words "Proposed to manage the agency" are replaced by "managed by the state-owned company "State-owned oil company." 24. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 40, para. 4 after the words of the agency. The state-owned company is added. 25. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) in para. 1 words for use of stocks managed by the agency shall be replaced by the State-owned company. (b) in para. 2 the words s/or with the order for use of the agency's stocks shall be deleted; (c) in para. 3 the State-owned oil company and the State-owned company shall be added after the words......................................................................................................................... and.................................................... (d) in para. 5 words................................................................................. The following points are inserted after point 55 (Commission 26. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 49 the words "and the order" shall be deleted. 27. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 50, t. 2 the word "agency" is replaced by "state enterprise" "State oil company." 28. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 51 all over the country after the words the debtors and the state-owned oil company is added. 29. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) in para. 1 all over after the word the State-owned oil company is added; (b) in para. 4 the words from the agency are replaced by the state enterprise State oil company and the word "possible" is replaced by a recovery order. (c) in para. 5 the words "signs" shall be deleted. 30. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) in para. 1 after the word "supplied" is added the state-owned company "State-owned oil company"; (b) in para. 3 the words "Saves of the Agency" shall be replaced by "Saves of the State-owned company." (c) the creation of para. 5. supplier control, State-owned oil company and oil and oil keepers holding registered warehouses under art. 38, in respect of the maintenance of the corresponding quantity of stocks under this law in tax warehouses within the meaning of the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses, shall also be carried out by customs officers appointed by order of the Director of the Customs Agency. In the event of findings containing evidence of infringement under this law, the Director of the Customs Agency shall immediately inform the President of the State Agency of State Reserves and Wartime Stocks. 31. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) in para. 3 sentence first the words "al." The following points are inserted after point 4 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): the first sentence is replaced by the following: (b) in para. 5 after the word "Sensures" shall be added by the employees under art. 55, para. the following points are inserted after point 4 (Commission Regulation (EC) No 65/2004): (c) the creation of para. 6 and 7: The customs officials referred to in Article 1 (1) (a) and (b) of this Agreement shall be responsible for the implementation of this Agreement. 55, para. 5 carry out the checks in accordance with the provisions of art. 102, 103 and 104 of the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses. The checks shall be ordered by order of the Director of the Customs Agency. (7) The State Agency of State Reserves and Wartime Stocks shall provide the Office of Customs with the necessary information to implement its powers under this law. 32. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) in para. 1 sentence first the words "al." The following points are inserted after point 4 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): 4 and 5 and in a sentence second after the word "The Agency" is added by the Director of the Customs Agency. (b) in para. 3 sentence first after the word "the Agency" is added "the Director of the Customs Agency" and in a sentence second after the word "the Agency," respectively the Director of the Customs Agency is added; (c) in para. The 4th sentence first after the word "the agency" is added to the Director of the Customs Agency. 33. In Article 4 (1) (b), a) Previous text becomes para. 1; (b) the creation of para. 2: In the event of the detection of infringements under art. 30, para. Art. 1, art. 33, para. Art. 1 and 2, Art. Art. 34, art. 35, para. Art. 1, art. 36, para. Art. 5 and art. 38, para. 6 when the control is carried out under art. 55, para. 5, the customs officers shall draw up an act establishing an administrative infringement. 34. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) in para. The second sentence of the sentence is replaced by the State Agency for State Reserves and Wartime Stocks. (b) in para. 6 the word "Agency" is replaced by "State Agency" "State Reserves and Wartime Stocks", respectively in the "Citizens of Customs" Agency; (c) in para. 7 the word "Agency" is replaced by "State Agency" "State Reserves and Wartime Stocks" respectively the Director of the Customs Agency or the person empowered by him. 35. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 69, para. 1 words.............................................................................. 55, para. The information referred to in paragraph 1 36. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 72, para. 1 and 2 the word "The Agency" is replaced by "State Agency" "State Reserves and Wartime Stocks" or "The Customs Agency." 37. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 74 para. 2 is amended as The actions for the identification of administrative infringements shall be drawn up by the employees under art. 55, para. 4 and 5 and the penal decrees are issued by the President or Vice-President of the State Agency. 38. In § 1, t. 23 of the additional provisions, the word "agency" is replaced by "state-owned company" "State-owned oil company."
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u71	Statements? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the version of § 8, which shall become § 14 of the Commission Report and the name of the division. 88 MPs voted: 85, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u72	According to § 9 there is a proposal of the MPs Daniela Saveklieva and Dimitar Boychev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9 which shall become § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In the Law on excises and tax warehouses (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1, t. 1 is finally added as well as a state enterprise within the meaning of art. 62, para. 3 of the Commercial Law (b) the creation of para. 12? 14: A licensed warehousekeeper shall be obliged to provide not less than 15% of the total maximum storage capacity for energy products entered in the licence for use by persons not related to it within the meaning of § 1, item 1. 3 of the additional provisions of the Tax Insurance Procedure Code. (13) The provision of para. 12 shall not apply to cases under para. 9, as well as where the licensed warehousekeeper does not have sufficient storage capacity to store its own energy products. (14) The order and manner of determining the storage capacity and the access of persons under para. 12 are laid down in the Rules of Law Enforcement. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 53, para. 5 after the words "State Agency" "State Reserves and Wartime Stocks" is added "State Enterprise" "State Oil Company." 3. In Chapter 4, Section IIa, with art. 55b "55h" is hereby repealed. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 65 are created. 9.. 11: The authorised warehousekeeper shall provide storage capacity for use by the persons under art. 47, para. 12 under the following conditions: 1. submission by the persons of a reasoned request to which documents proving the need to store energy products shall be attached; 2. their relations shall be settled under equal conditions with which they are settled with other depositors in the tax warehouse; 3. in the event that there are no other depositors in the tax warehouse, their relations shall be governed by the market principle and taking into account market value. (10) The authorised warehousekeeper and the person under art. 47, para. 12 settle their relationship in compliance with the requirements of the law. Upon refusal of the authorised warehousekeeper for the provision of storage capacity, the person shall notify the Director of the territorial directorate of the location of the tax warehouse in writing, providing evidence of the refusal. The customs authorities shall verify the fact that there is a storage capacity for use by the persons referred to in Article 1. 47, para. 12. (11) The authorised warehousekeepers shall disclose the availability of free storage capacity for use by the persons under art. 47, para. 12 in a generally accessible manner, including on its website. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 66, para. the third sentence is deleted; 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: OJ L 268, 7. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 115c: Art. 115c. Licensed warehousekeeper who refuses to provide the use of storage capacity under art. 65, para. 10 shall be punished with a penalty of 500 to 2000 BGN, and in case of repeated infringement from 1000 to 5000 BGN Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Saveklieva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 16: ......... 16........................................... In the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 31, para. 3 is finally added to the municipal council. The Commission proposes to establish § 17: Seventeen. In the Law on Energy from Renewable Sources (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 50 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 words "State Agency" "State Reserves and Wartime Stocks" are replaced by "State Enterprise" "State Oil Company." 2. In para. The third sentence is amended as follows: The entire oil and oil stocks are stored in the country's territory unmixed with biofuels. 3. In para. 4 words "State Agency" "State Reserves and Wartime Stocks" are replaced by "State Enterprise" "State Oil Company."
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u73	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the version of § 9, which becomes § 15, and the new paragraphs 16 and 17. Vote 79 MPs: 77, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Shevked, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u74	Thank you, Madam President. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10, which shall become § 18: .............................................................................. (1) Within three months of the entry into the Commercial Register and the register of non-profit legal entities, the State-owned oil company................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Until the licenses are granted, the State Agency is carrying out the activity as a licensed warehousekeeper in the current order. (2) The licences under para. 1 and the decision to terminate the licences issued in accordance with the repealed Section IIa of Chapter 4 of the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses shall be served simultaneously on the 1st of the month concerned. (3) The stocks of excise goods established by the customs authorities at the date of service of the acts under para. 2 shall be recorded in the material reporting of the relevant tax warehouses and shall not be deemed to be released for consumption and electronic administrative documents shall be registered for this purpose. (4) Within three months of the service of the licences under para. 1, State-owned company "State oil company" filed a request for registration of warehouses under art. 38 of the Oil and Oil Stocks Act. Until registration of warehouses under art. 38 of the Oil and Oil Stocks Act, the control and reporting of oil and oil stocks and petroleum products are carried out in the current order. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11, which shall become § 19: "Seriously, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. (1) The assets, including oil bases, which are not licensed as tax warehouses, liabilities, archives, as well as other rights and obligations of the State Agency of State Reserves and Wartime Stocks, related to the activity under art. 11b, para. 1 switch to state-owned oil company. The 1st of the month. The transfer and acceptance of the property shall be subject to a reception and transmission protocol. (2) All oil warehouses licensed as tax warehouses for oil storage and oil operations provided for the management of the State Agency of State Reserves and Wartime Stocks and of the reserves and reserves of oil and petroleum products stored therein shall be managed by the State-owned oil company from the date of the granting of the licenses under § 18, para. 2. The transfer and acceptance of the property shall be subject to a reception and transmission protocol. (3) Reserves and reserves held, owned by the State Agency of State Reserves and Wartime Stocks, in warehouses under art. 38 of the Oil Stocks and Stocks Act and other warehouses/reservations are transferred to the management of a State-owned oil company in a three-month period from its entry in the Commercial Register and the register of non-profit legal entities. The terms and procedure for the passage of stored reserves and reserves owned by the State Agency. State Reserves and Wartime Stocks................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 38 of the Oil and Oil Stocks Act shall be governed by the Agreement under art. 11a, para. 4. The warehouse records issued for the benefit of the State Agency of State Reserves and Wartime Stocks shall be re-published by the keepers in favour of the State Enterprise State Oil Company within 14 days of the transfer of reserves and reserves into the management of the State Enterprise. (4) The district managers shall reflect changes in the state ownership acts for the properties or shall draw up state ownership acts for them. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer, which shall be reflected in § 19, para. 1 and proposes the following version of § 12, which becomes § 20: .................................................................................. State-owned oil company. State-owned oil company is acting as a contracting entity together with the State-owned agency. State-owned reserve and wartime stocks............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 176a, para. 6 of the Law on Construction in the Area, in accordance with the powers under this Law. Contracts other than those referred to in the first sentence relating to the activity under art. 11b, para. 1 shall be implemented in this part of the State Agency of State Reserves and Wartime Stocks up to the selection of new contractors/providers by State-owned oil company. The costs shall be borne by the company's budget. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text pa the importer and propose the following version of § 13, which shall become § 21: .................................................................. The structural changes in the budgets of the Ministry of Economy and the State Agency of State Reserves and Wartime Stocks are carried out according to art. In the case of the aid, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 4 of the Public Finance Act on the 1st of the month concerned. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 14, which shall become § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss (1) The labor services of the employees of the administration of the State Agency of State Reserves and Wartime Stocks, which carried out activities under art. 11b, para. 1 shall be governed under the conditions (2) The timeless and temporary service of the civil servants of the administration of the State Agency of State Reserves and Wartime Stocks, which carried out activities under art. 11b, para. 1 shall be converted into fixed-term and fixed-term employment relationships, respectively, and employment contracts shall be concluded with employees. (3) Labour contracts shall be concluded on the basis of a written application submitted by the employee within 7 days of receipt of a notification that he has been appointed to become a member of the State-owned oil company and his service shall be terminated. (4) When the period for testing under art. 12 of the Civil Service Act is less than 6 months, it shall be included in the testing period under art. 70 of the Labour Code and when the expired period exceeds 6 months, the period for testing under art. 70 of the Labor Code has expired. (5) In the transformation of the individual basic monthly salary under the Labour Code of the employees of service and employment in the administration of the State Agency of State Reserves and Wartime Stocks, which carried out activities under art. 11b, para. 1 shall be determined so that the same, increased by the additional wage for acquired work experience and professional experience and reduced by the tax due and compulsory social contributions at the expense of the insured person, is not lower than the individual basic monthly salary received so far, reduced by the compulsory social contributions due at the expense of the insured person, if they were due, and the tax due. (6) Unused leave of the employees of the service and labour force of the State Agency of State Reserves and Wartime Stocks, which carried out activities under art. 11b, para. One, they're preserved. Detentions may be used proportionately at the date of entry into force of this law and shall not be compensated by monetary benefits. (7) The terms, procedures and time limits for the passage of employees shall be laid down in the agreement under art. 11a, para. 4. The Commission proposes to establish § 23: ..................................................... (1) Within two months of the entry into force of this Act, the Minister of Finance shall establish in accordance with it the Rules for the Implementation of the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses. (2) Within three months of the entry into force of the amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure under para. 1 The authorised warehousekeepers shall bring their activities in accordance with the requirements of art. 47, para. Art. 12 and Art. 65, para. 11 and shall inform the Director of the Customs Agency thereof in writing. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 15, which shall become § 24: .................................................................................. Within three months of the entry into force of this Act, the Council of Ministers shall adopt the Rules of Procedure under art. 11a, para. 3 and the relevant amendments to the regulations.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u75	Thank you, dear Mrs. Shevked. Colleagues, speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of § 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, which shall become § 18, 19, 20, 21 and 22, respectively, of the Commission Report; the new § 23 and the version of § 15, which shall become § 24 of the Commission Report. Vote 97 MPs: 95, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the last item of today's agenda: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR MILK DISCLOSURE. Importers are Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs on 1 July 2020. I give the floor to Mr. Nunev to present the Report of the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of the special intelligence means and access to the data under the Law on Electronic Communications. Here you go, Mr. Nunev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u76	Thank you, Madam President. I'm making an offer under art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to be admitted to the Chamber Lieutenant General Atanas Zapreyanov Deputy Minister of Defence and Colonel Velko Atanasov Acting Director of the Military Information Service.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u77	Please vote on the procedure so made. They voted 83 MPs: for 82, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Nunev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u78	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Military Intelligence Act, No 054-01-59, submitted by Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs on 1 July 2020. At a meeting held on 2 July 2020, the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Military Intelligence Act, No 054 01-59, submitted by Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs on 1 July 2020. The meeting was attended by General Atanas Zapreyanov, Deputy Minister of Defence, Admiral Emil Evtimov, Defence Chief and Colonel Velko Atanasov, Acting Director of the Military Information Service. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Dimitar Lazarov. The aim of the bill is to improve the regulations governing the organization, activities, tasks and functioning of military intelligence in the Republic of Bulgaria. It is proposed that the name of the Office be changed to the Office of Military Intelligence. It is apparent that the name does not correspond with the basic activities, functions and tasks of military intelligence, which is practically organised as a single centralised intelligence process. The new name will achieve and reflect to the fullest extent the functions of military intelligence as a special intelligence service for the acquisition and analysis of strategic intelligence information, information provision of state institutions, provision of intelligence for the armed forces and development of information and operational cooperation with NATO and EU intelligence structures and partner services. The bill shall sign the functions of the Office for the Organization and Implementation of a System of Planning, Coordination and Reporting of the activities of the intelligence structures in the Bulgarian Army in the process of supporting the Chief of Defence, in the performance of his duties under art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria. The Bill also refines the texts on the self-instruction of activities by the Office for the Protection of Classified Information, as well as internal security and counter-intelligence provision of operational intelligence. The Ministry of Defence in a written statement expressed its support under the Bill and indicated their comments on it. General Atanas Zapreyanov "Deputy Minister of Defence," Admiral Emil Evtimov "Deputy Chief of Defence," and Colonel Velko Atanasov "The Acting Director of the Military Information Service" shared in their statements that the legislative changes are timely and contain the proposals adopted during the Strategic Defence Review. With regard to the proposals relating to the establishment of an Ethical Code of Staff of the Office and their annual attestations, the Ministry of Defence indicated that the necessary measures had been taken to establish more precise regulations in this respect and they would also be relevant to the structures of direct subordination of the Minister of Defence. People's representatives Dimitar Lazarov, Philip Popov and Plamen Nunev took part in the debates, who said that the legislative changes and their adoption will achieve more effective and successful implementation of the assigned missions and tasks of military intelligence in the current security environment and in the context of NATO and EU membership with the same resources. After the discussion, the Commission, with 7 votes for the Council, without abstention and abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft amendment and supplement to the Military Intelligence Act, No 054-01-59, submitted by Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs on 1 July 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u79	Thank you, dear Mr. Nunev. With the second report of the Defence Committee, Mr Popov will introduce us to the President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u80	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe of the Defence Committee on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Military Intelligence Act No 054-01-59, submitted by Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov and a group of MPs on 1 July 2020. At a regular meeting held on 2 July 2020, the Defence Committee examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Military Intelligence Act. The Defence Chief Admiral Emil Evtimov, Deputy Defence Minister Atanas Zaprianov, Colonel Velko Atanasov, acting Director of the Military Information Service, and the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Defence Vanya Denevska attended. The bill was presented by the MP Plamen Manushev on behalf of the importers. Deputy Minister Zapreyanov briefed the Commission on the opinion of the Ministry of Defence, agreed with the envisaged amendments and additions and made specifics in certain paragraphs, which are not, in essence, contrary to the purpose of the Law and the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. MPs Kolyu Milev, Milen Mihov, Simeon Simeonov and Tasco Ermenkov spoke. As representatives of the main parliamentary groups, they all stressed the need to adopt amendments and additions to the Bill, which are in the interest of both the state authorities at strategic level and the structures of the armed forces and the Bulgarian Army at operational and tactical level throughout the chain of command, and declared firm support for their vote in the Chamber. The change in the name of the Office of Military Information of the Service of Military Intelligence is more than logical. It is an expression of its organisational structure, nature of activity, basic tasks and way of functioning. As such, the Office stands above political differences and the Bill in this regard is a step forward. The amendments will improve the coordination and management of the intelligence structures in the Bulgarian Army in accordance with the established principles and conditions in the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. The participation of the Office in the implementation of a system of planning, coordination and accountability of the activities of the intelligence structures in the Bulgarian Army to assist the Chief of Defence in the implementation of some of his duties will improve the decision-making process at a strategic level, both in peaceful and military times. The adoption of the amendments and additions refines important texts on the activities of its self-instruction by the Office of the Protection of Classified Information, as well as internal security and counterintelligence of intelligence activities. Changes will improve the terms and conditions for the acceptance of military service of an employee who works in other structures of the national security protection system, which is an important condition for maintaining personnel potential and high professionalism in the activity. The Director of the Office Colonel Atanasov thanked for the attitude, understanding and support for the bill, stressing that the entry into force of the amendments will strengthen and develop the potential of the Office of Military Intelligence, as a major part of the National Security Protection System. In conclusion, the President of the Commission Konstantin Popov stressed his satisfaction with the meaningful speeches and expressed views on the appropriateness of the proposed amendments and additions, thanking the Commission for its unity on the issue under discussion, the discussion was closed. During the vote held, with 19 votes for..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u81	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor. Here you go, Mr. Milev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u82	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! We support the amendments to the Military Intelligence Act, as we see an initiative to restore justice that did not exist until now with regard to intelligence. The replacement of the service by the name of the Service "Military information" over the years has led to many problems and I would say that at the operational and technical level a lot of mistakes have been made even in sending and maintaining missions abroad. We had such problems not only back in Cambodia, but we had both in Karbala and Iraq and Afghanistan. Intelligence, as well as military intelligence at strategic level, is also gathering information. We should not just dwell on the word..... and almost it restricts the opportunities that all units of the Army should have. We support because the Military Intelligence Service is now really going to have to enter into its obligations as a structure and we will monitor from now on whether this information extraction or intelligence acquisition will also be eligible to all levels not only the state but also the military leadership. Also, many employees from other services should not be allowed to be drawn to this service through the door, that they are allowed to be recognized internship in other places, and in the direction it is almost impossible to choose a civil servant of the Office. Even I, as a member of the Defence Committee, am so jealous that for this service, another committee is the lead. It doesn't matter that it's a service, it's military intelligence. We should not hide behind the services and, if necessary, the Rules, Madam President, we should check, but the Defence Committee is leading on the problems in the Army and for the Military Intelligence. I support the efforts, as well as the leadership of the Military Information Service, to accept everything that has been positive so far, but our assessment could not have been so much better and the Chief of Defense could indeed be leading not only during the exercise, but also for everyone to receive information from what is happening not only in Bulgaria, but also on missions abroad and in the world, and we could not get information from partner services alone and based on them to manage our contingents abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u83	Thank you, dear Mr. Milev. - What's the line? I can't see. Come in for a statement, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u84	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As before, General Milev said, we will support this bill with the clear awareness that, firstly, it is not just an editorial change or a cosmetic change of the name of the Office of Military Information. We are talking about a fundamental change of attitude towards one of the services, which are the pillars of our national security, one of the main pillars, the one that provides that military and military information that guarantees the right claims of decisions in our military leadership. Until now, the name of the Office of Military Information has created a rather informative-journalistic character of the Office, if I may say so jokingly, at least in the eyes of the public. And what we are now changing as a name will give us the essence that really meets the work that colleagues do in not very light conditions with insufficient funding, with perhaps undervalued work, but with successes that are recognised not only by our political leadership, but also by the leadership of our NATO partners. The change is in the right direction because, when it comes to military intelligence, it is a single integrated continuous process and cannot be divided only into strategic, only operational or only tactical, it is fully interconnected. And when we talk about military intelligence and the Office that heads it, this means that it covers, coordinates and summarizes the data of all types of intelligence that is available in the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. That is why we support the bill. And one more thing. In this bill, for the first time, what should have been put in the Defence and Armed Forces Act was to emphasize the unity of the Bulgarian Army and not the creation of separate islands of government, which is theoretically not to say that there is a practical existence, such as the Joint Command of Forces and the Chief of Defence. The issue is extremely well raised that the Joint Command of the Forces is being added directly to the Chief of Defense to know, however, that there is a Chief of Defence in the Bulgarian Army and they are all subordinate to it. He, in addition to being chief by definition in the Law, has the relevant functions and tools to exercise this authority. Once again, we will support the bill. We have concerns about the attestation which has been introduced inside and the Code of Ethics as elements of this bill. Given that the Ministry of Defence is doing such work, we will be looking for options to resolve this problem somehow. I congratulate the importers that they are going in the right direction and returning the status of military intelligence to where it belongs in the military. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u85	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u86	Madam President, honourable Members! In a nutshell. I thank you for the good words that were said on behalf of the opposition for the importers. I think we are really doing something good, and I think that this should be political dialogue and political language when it comes to serious structures, such as the structures of Military Intelligence. I think that we are really changing not only the name of the Office, but with this name, we are returning the responsibilities, and in a wider scale we are returning to greater depths and in the sense of better integration. The role of the Chief of Defence, as has already been highlighted by the previous speakers, is more clearly defined in the interests of all the servicemen, but not only! 'Cause the Chief of Defense is also Chief of Staff during an armed conflict. That is, we are improving the work not only in the structures of the Ministry of Defence, but we are improving the work in principle of Military Intelligence, which provides integrated information both to the political and military level. Of course, there may be relevant amendments, and I believe that perhaps the President of the Commission, Mr. Lazarov, can make a procedural proposal for the deadline for submitting proposals, which is normal and we will discuss them and be able to address these issues. However, I will go back to what was mentioned at the outset when it comes to serious activity, when it comes to strategically important solutions, a really good dialogue can only be useful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u87	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Colleagues, lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Manushev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u88	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! A few words just about this bill, I'm one of the importers. First of all, I would like to express my satisfaction with the work of the Defence Committee, which has shown that when it comes to national priorities, for an extremely important service for our national security, there is unanimous thinking and support from all of us unanimously shows that the responsible attitude. The bill is an important one. It is not revolutionary and decisive, but it is important for the direction and development of Military Intelligence. For me, we in the Defence Committee spoke, Military Information, and if we accept this law, the Military Intelligence Service has fulfilled its obligations, strictly and very well. And although it was a service to provide information of a strategic nature, it carried out its tasks both at operational and tactical level. I'll give you an example. In 2012, in Kabul, Afghanistan, the commander of ISAF, John Allen, said to the President of Bulgaria: "Mr. President, a great thank you to the Military Information Service for saving very few lives of Bulgarian soldiers, but also to dozens of American soldiers from her work. " A very important element of the change is the relations of the Military Information and the intelligence authorities in the Bulgarian Army. What is written in the Bill is that the Office of Military Information... [[Reply of MP Dimitar Lazarov.]] That will be the name of the service: Military Intelligence Service, we have not changed it yet, but this service will have a methodical leadership of the intelligence bodies in the Bulgarian Army, which is extremely important and puts at a qualitatively new stage the relationship. We've already talked about the Chief of Defense's attitude and information. That, I'm sure, is a step in the right direction. I will therefore support this change with a clear conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u89	Thank you, dear Mr. Manushev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Colleagues, we're voting. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Military Intelligence Act, No 054-01-59, submitted by Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs on 1 July 2020. Vote 94 MPs: for 93, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u90	Madam President, I ask you to put to the vote the time limit for proposals between the first and second reading of the just-adopted first vote the Military Intelligence Act to be five days; it is by consensus; we see, but since there are some opinions from the Ministry of Defence, we have time to prepare it, that is, the deadline to expire on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u91	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. Colleagues, I'm voting on the procedure Mr. Lazarov just did. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Now we move on to the last item of today's agenda: LAW FOR THE APPLICATION OF REGULATION (EU) 2019/125 OF 16 JANUARY 2019 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL ON TRADE IN CERTAIN GOODS WHICH MAY HAVE BEEN USED FOR THE USE OF DEATH-CRAFT, TURNED OR OTHER FORMS OF GREEN, INDEPENDENT OR UNIFIED FOR OR TALKING. Mr. Kanev, would you like to introduce us to the Economic Policy and Tourism Committee Report?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u92	I'll introduce you, but before that, hall pass. Colleagues, I offer access to the hall of Lachezar Borisov "Deputy Minister of Economy," and Natalia Peaovska "Director of the Directorate."
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u93	Please vote on the procedure so made. Vote 85 MPs: 84 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u94	♪ I can't believe under a bill implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/125 of 16 January 2019 of the European Parliament and of the Council on trade in certain goods which could be used for the application of the death penalty, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, No 002-01-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 June 2020. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting on 1 July 2020 examined and discussed the Draft Implementation of Regulation (EU) 2019/125 of 16 January 2019 of the European Parliament and of the Council on trade in certain goods which could be used for the purpose of the death penalty, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Economy Lachezar Borisov Deputy Minister, Natalia Perovska Director of the Internationally Controlled Trade and Security Directorate and Desislava Doycheva State Expert at the Internationally Controlled Trade and Security Directorate and by the Customs Agency Tsetska Docheva Head of the Department of Administrative and Criminal Activity and Responsible Authorities. The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Borisov. According to the importer, the purpose of the proposed bill is to lay down rules on trade with third countries with goods which could be used for torture or other forms of inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, as well as the rules governing the provision of brokering services, technical assistance, training and advertising related to such goods under Regulation (EU) 2019/125 of the European Parliament and of the Council. Regulation (EU) 2019/125 is a codified version of Regulation (EC) No 1236/2005 which has been substantially amended several times. Authorisations for the export, import and transit of goods, for the provision of technical assistance relating to those goods, for the exhibition or marketing of the sale of goods, for brokering services under Annexes II, III and IV of Regulation 2019/125 shall be issued by the Minister of Economy. The Minister of Economy may refuse to grant an authorisation where the activity is contrary to the authorisation criteria set out in Regulation 2019/125 or where no document satisfying the requirements has been submitted. Control of the implementation of the Law is carried out by the Minister of Economy and the Director of the Customs Agency. Those who violate the conditions and requirements for the use of a Union general export authorisation shall carry out activities in breach of the scope and conditions of the authorisation granted or prevent and/or refuse access to an official in the exercise of control activities under this law, with fines and penalty payments. The bill repealed the Law implementing Council Regulation (EC) 1236/2005 on trade in certain goods which could be used for the purpose of the death penalty, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. A summary of the overall preliminary impact assessment as well as those required under art. 76 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. After a vote with results: 16 votes for the vote and 1 vote abstention, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism adopted the following opinion: Asks the National Assembly to adopt a bill implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/125 of 16 January 2019 of the European Parliament and of the Council on trade in certain goods which could be used in order to apply the death penalty, torture or other forms of cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, No 002-01-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 June 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u95	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. With the Report of the Committee on Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling, Mr. Martin Timchev will introduce us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u96	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, ♪ I can't believe to the Commission for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling on a Draft Law amending and supplementing Regulation (EU) 2019/125 of 16 January 2019 of the European Parliament and of the Council on trade in certain goods which could be used for the application of the death penalty, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, No 002-01-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 June 2020. At its extraordinary meeting on 2 July 2020, the Commission for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and the Combating of the Grey Economy and Smuggling examined a Bill amending and supplementing Regulation (EU) 2019/125 of 16 January 2019 of the European Parliament and of the Council on trade in certain goods which could be used for the application of the death penalty, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, No 002-01-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 June 2020. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Lachezar Borisov from the Ministry of Economics, Deputy Minister, and Mrs. Desislava Doycheva from State Expert at the Internationally Controlled Trade and Security Directorate. The draft law was presented by Mr. Lachezar Borisov, who focused on the main changes. The bill proposed by the Council of Ministers is a Draft Law implementing Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council No 2019/125 on trade in certain goods which could be used for the purpose of applying the death penalty, torture or other forms of cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. In essence, the bill is tabled because of the change in the Regulation. The new Regulation, which we must comply with, replaces Regulation No 1236/2005. It does not introduce significant differences from what has been at the moment, but we must comply with the new Regulation and update our legislation within the framework of inter-departmental coordination in the Council of Ministers and all other institutions. Some of the departments have proposed the revision of the texts to bring more clarity. This was done with the Project which was submitted by the Council of Ministers. The bill does not provide for or introduce new provisions and additional controls. Only a new numbering and members of the annexes shall be introduced with a description of the goods, new document templates numbers, as well as a clarification of some of the texts proposed by certain departments. Attitude on the presented bill expressed the MPs Stefan Burgeev, Kolyo Milev and Julian Angelov. Following the discussion and the vote held with 17 votes in favour, without abstention, the Commission for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and the Fight against the Grey Economy and Smuggling proposed to the National Assembly to adopt, in the first vote, a bill amending and supplementing Regulation (EU) 2019/125 of 16 January 2019 of the European Parliament and of the Council on trade in certain goods which could be used for the application of capital punishment, torture or other forms of cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, No 002-01-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 June 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u97	Thank you, dear Mr. Timchev. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. A statement, Mr. Kanev, of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u98	Colleagues, since we're closing the day, I'd just like to say a few words to you about this law. I think we will also cheer up the mood: it is no accident that euroscepticism in Europe is flooding Europe, it is no accident that we are talking about these 34,000 officials in the European Commission. By the way, we will support the Law categorically in both the Commission and the House, we will support it, but I would like to read you a few paragraphs of these 120 pages of applications by this law. What has the European Commission been doing since 2005? What do we do in 2005, 2013, 2015? What are 27 countries, 27 parliaments, 27 ministers and so on? We are talking about production and export of gallows, guillotines and guillotine blades, electric chairs, extremely strong business in the European Union, hermetic chambers made of steel or glass intended for execution, automatic injection systems and so on, and all this is provided that the death penalty is prohibited a total of 120 pages. We support the Law, we are firm for Europe. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-09.u99	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. Will there be lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I put to the first vote a bill amending Regulation (EU) 2019/125 of 16 January 2019 of the European Parliament and of the Council on trade in certain goods which could be used to apply the death penalty, torture or other forms of cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, No 002-01-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 June 2020. Vote 89 MPs: 88 against 1, no abstentions. That's what we're done with today's agenda. I will read the Parliamentary Control Communication on July 10, 2020, Friday: 1. Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Mariana Nikolova will answer two questions from the MPs Teodora Halacheva; and Nadia Klisurska-Zekova. 2. Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev will answer three questions from the MPs Kristina Sidorova; Georgi Mihailov; and Nadia Klisurska-Zekova and Ilian Timchev. 3. Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva will answer three questions from the MPs Aleksandar Matsurev two questions; and Polina Shishkova and Kristina Sidorova. 4. The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Dessislava Taneva will answer a question from the MP Kolyo Milev. 5. The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov will answer two questions from the MPs Yavor Bojankov; and Dimitar Danchev. 6. The Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev will answer a question from the MP Dragomir Stoinev. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva, one question from the National Representative Pavel Shopov; and one question with a written answer from the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov; - Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov to a question from the National Representative Kolyo Milev; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova to a question with a written answer from the MPs Atanas Kostadinov and Lyubomir Bonev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova to a question written by the National Representative Danka Zidarova-Lurtova. The Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev; Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova; and Minister of Economy Emil Karanikov will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting due to the use of annual leave. That concludes today's session. Regular plenary session for tomorrow, 10 July 2020, at 9:00. We're adjourned.
