ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u1	Good afternoon, fellow Members of the House! Good day to the colleagues who will participate remotely. I hope they are getting better and soon to see them among us! Please, registration mode. Anna Alexandrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u2	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u3	Vladimir Toshev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u4	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u5	Georgi Dinev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u6	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u7	Georgi Kolev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u8	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u9	Desislava Kostadinova?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u10	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u11	Konstantin Popov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u12	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u13	Plamen Nunev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u14	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u15	Slavko Atanasov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u16	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u17	Thank you to my colleagues. Registered in the hall 116 MPs and 8 registered remotely become 124. The required number of MPs in the decision room is 63. There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] My fellow Members, before we proceed, I will make an announcement: Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that a joint Bulgarian-American preparation will take place between 3 December 2020 and 30 June 2021 in the area of the joint Bulgarian-American facility. In the joint preparation will take part a formation of US armed forces in a staff of military personnel with the necessary equipment, state weapons and military supplies, tanks, infantry war machines, military aircraft, transport, auxiliary and repair equipment. The preparations shall be carried out in the implementation of the agreements reached on the implementation of an Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States on Defence Cooperation and shall not be related to military operations, preparatory actions to conduct upcoming or alleged military operations, as well as to activities to prevent military activities conducted by other (other State or organisation) armed forces. The notification was received on 2 December 2020 with entry No 003-09-100 and was submitted to the Defence Committee. Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that the following additional item be included in the weekly Work Programme of the National Assembly on the second vote of the Draft for amendment and supplement to the Labour Code "General project prepared by the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee on the basis of the laws adopted at first vote on 1 October 2020 with importer Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on 3 June 2020, and the Council of Ministers on 3 August 2020. sevent by proposing to be point five of the Programme for today, 4 December 2020. Please, voting mode. Mrs. Alexandrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u18	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u19	Mr. Toshev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u20	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u21	Mr. Dinev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u22	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u23	Mr. Kolev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u24	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u25	Mrs. Kostadinova?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u26	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u27	Mr. Popov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u28	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u29	Mr. Nunev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u30	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u31	Mr. Atanasov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u32	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u33	Thank you. They voted in this House 109 MPs plus 8 remote. 117 total: 117 against and abstention. The motion is accepted. We continue with the first point for today: This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. Who's gonna introduce us to the report? Here you go, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, please, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of our Rules of Procedure to be admitted to the Chamber Mr. Zhecho Stankov, Deputy Minister of Energy.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u35	Please vote on the procedure so made. Mrs. Alexandrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u36	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u37	Mr. Toshev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u38	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u39	Mr. Dinev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u40	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u41	Mr. Kolev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u42	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u43	Mrs. Kostadinova?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u44	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u45	Mr. Popov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u46	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u47	Mr. Nunev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u48	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u49	Mr. Atanasov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u50	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u51	They voted 101 MPs in the House plus 8 remote The motion is accepted. Please invite the Deputy Minister to the Chamber. Mr. Nikolov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u52	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the provision of reputable advisory services "Support for territorial de-contribution' between the Ministry of Energy and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No 002-02-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 November 2020. At its regular meeting held on 19 November 2020, the Energy Commission discussed and voted on the above-mentioned bill. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Energy Ms. Temenuzhka Petkova Minister. On the part of the importer, the reasons for the bill were presented by the Minister of Energy Ms. Temenuzhka Petkova. She pointed out that on 30 September 2020 an Agreement was signed in Sofia for the provision of reputable consulting services. The agreement envisions the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development to provide support to the Ministry of Energy for preparing territorial plans for a fair transition to decarbonisation in eight regions of the country in order to meet the requirements of the Fair Transition Mechanism. Territorial transition plans should outline the transition process in line with the Integrated National Energy and Climate Plan and define the most affected areas that need support. The plan for each region should present the social, economic and environmental challenges and identify the needs for economic diversification, re-qualification and restoration of the environment taking into account individual specificities. The preparation of territorial plans is a key condition for obtaining support from the Fund for a fair transition in relation to the European Green Deal. The agreement is worth 2.5 million. BGN, the funds will be provided by the Operational Programme "Good management" 2014 "2020." Given that the Agreement has the character of an international contract and provides for financial obligations for the State, as well as State participation in arbitration of international disputes, the same on the grounds of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 and 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria should be ratified by law of the National Assembly. Following the end of the discussion and on the basis of the vote held, the Energy Committee with 11 votes for the Council, with no votes against the House, and 6 votes abstentions, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt, on the basis of the first vote, a Draft for ratification of the Agreement on the Provision of Reputable Consulting Services, a Support for the International Energy Recovery and Development Bank between the Ministry of Energy and the International Bank of Reconstruction and Development, No 002-02-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 November 2020, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 November 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u53	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. The report of the Committee on Foreign Policy follows. Mr. Manushev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u54	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! This Regulation to the Committee on Foreign Policy on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the provision of reputable advisory services "Support for the territorial de-contribution' between the Ministry of Energy and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No 002-02-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 November 2020. At its regular meeting held on 2 December 2020, the Committee on Foreign Policy examined the Draft for ratification of the Agreement on the provision of reputable advisory services "Support for territorial depreciation' between the Ministry of Energy and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No 002-02-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 November 2020. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mrs. Veneta Tsvetkova, Director of the Energy Projects and International Cooperation Directorate. The agreement proposed to be ratified by a law of the National Assembly was signed on 30 September 2020 in Sofia. It envisages supporting the Ministry of Energy for a fair transition to decarbonisation by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development in eight regions of the country in relation to the requirements of the Fair Transition Mechanism. To this end, the transition process in line with the Integrated National Energy and Climate Plan will be outlined and the most affected areas in need of support will be identified when developing the Territorial Transition Plans. Each regional plan will present the social, economic and environmental challenges and identify the needs for economic diversification, requalification and restoration of the environment. The preparation of such plans is a condition for obtaining support from the Fund for a fair transition in relation to the European Green Deal. The agreement is worth 2.5 million. BGN, which will be provided by Operational Programme "Good management " 2014 " 2020 г. The agreement has the character of an international treaty providing for financial obligations for the State, as well as State participation in the arbitration settlement of international disputes under the terms of the anex of the Agreement. The arbitration tribunal will consist of three arbitrators, each of which will appoint one, and together they will elect a third, who will have the role of presiding arbitrator of the tribunal. In the case of arbitration, it is envisaged to comply with the arbitration rules of the UN International Trade Law Commission, and where they conflict with this Agreement, the provisions of the Agreement will be applied with priority. Therefore, the Agreement is subject to ratification by the National Assembly under art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 and 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Following the debates held, the Commission held a vote in which the draft voted on 12 MPs, without the opposition and the abstention. On the basis of the results of the vote, the Foreign Policy Committee shall propose to the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4, 5 and 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria to adopt in the first vote a Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement on the Provision of Reputable Consulting Services "Support for the Territorial De-Support between the Ministry of Energy and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No 002-02-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 November 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u55	Thank you, dear Mr. Manushev. I'm opening the debate. I don't see any speeches. I put to the vote a bill for ratification of the Agreement on the provision of reputable advisory services. Anna Alexandrova? I don't see her. Mr. Toshev? I don't see him. Mr. Dinev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u56	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u57	Mr. Kolev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u58	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u59	Mrs. Kostadinova?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u60	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u61	Mr. Popov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u62	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u63	Mr. Nunev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u64	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u65	They voted 115 MPs in the House plus 5 remote.. 120: for 106 plus 5 remote. 111, not against, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. Mr. Nikolov, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u66	Thank you, Madam President. Please, on the basis of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 The deadline for a proposal between the first and second reading of the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the provision of compensation advisory services.Support for the territorial de-preservation......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u67	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Please vote on Mr. Nikolov's so-called procedure. Mr. Toshev? I don't see him. Mr. Dinev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u68	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u69	Mr. Kolev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u70	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u71	Mrs. Kostadinova?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u72	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u73	Mr. Popov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u74	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u75	Mr. Nunev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u76	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u77	Mr. Atanasov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u78	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u79	Thank you. They voted 107 MPs in the House plus 6 remote.. become 113: for 100, not against, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. The next item is: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR FILM INDISTria. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 27 November 2020 Who's gonna present the report? Mr. Veleov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u80	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Procedure on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Mr. Rumen Dimitrov, Deputy Minister of Culture, please be admitted to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u81	Please vote on the procedure so made. Mr. Popov, I see he's on the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u82	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u83	Mr. Kolev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u84	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u85	Mr. Dinev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u86	Yeah. They voted 102 MPs in the House plus 3 remotes become 105: 96 plus 3 remotes for 99, not against, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Invite the Deputy Minister to the Chamber. Here you are, Mr. Veleov, to introduce us to the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u87	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Film Industry Act No 002-01-68, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 November 2020. At a regular meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media, held on 2 December 2020, a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Film Industry Act was discussed, No 002-01-68, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 November 2020. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Culture: Boil Banov On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mr. Boil Banov. The proposed bill proposes changes in art. 17 aimed at increasing the funding of national film production, separating the support of festivals and cultural events into a separate scheme, as well as the creation of a new cost reimbursement scheme which has the effect of stimulating investment in the sector. The number of films increased and the definition of calculating the average budget changed. The annual amount of the State aid scheme for film production under the requirements and terms of Regulation (EU) No 651/2014 shall not be less than the sum of the average budgets for the previous year, respectively of 12 feature feature films, 22 feature documentaries and 250 minutes of animation. The introduction of a State aid scheme for reimbursement of costs or so-called incentives is proposed. The recognised effects of introducing incentives are economic, cultural, social benefits and others, expressing themselves in high added value, jobs, improving the qualification of staff in different sectors of the economy related to film production, cultural tourism and national branding. A new concept has been developed concerning the formation of advisory and expert bodies to the Executive Director of the Executive Agency. The compositions of the National Art Committees are proposed to be reduced from 9 to 7 members and their term of office reduced from one year to 6 months. Two new committees are set up to assess projects for reimbursement and for festivals and cultural events, with a view to regulating State aid schemes. Each of them should be with five members, both involving two external experts, and the other members are employees of the National Film Centre and the Ministry of Culture. In order to optimize the activity and create the necessary operationality in carrying out a financial assessment of the projects under all State aid schemes, the financial committee shall be removed. The financial assessment of the projects is proposed to be carried out by staff members of the National Film Centre. The compositions of the National Committee for Categorisation of Films are reduced from 8 to 5 pieces and members from 7 to 5 for each composition. During the discussion took part the MPs Evgeni Budinov, Nona Yotova, Toma Bikov, Krasimir Velchev, Velislava Krasteva, Todor Baychev, Christian Mitev, Maria Tsvetkova and Anastas Popdimitrov, who expressed support for the bill and united around the opinion to extend the deadline for proposals between the first and second votes. Attitudes on the bill took Milko Lazarov from the Union of Bulgarian Filmmakers, Bozidar Iliev from the Association of Bulgarian Film Salons, Krassi Vankov from the Association of Film and Television Producers and Lachezar Velinov from the Association of Bulgarian Animation Producers, who will send their opinions to the Commission. Following a vote, MPs from the Committee on Culture and Media unanimously proposed to the National Assembly by 18 votes to adopt a Law amending and supplementing the Film Industry Act, No 002-01-68, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 November 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u88	Thank you, dear Mr. Velev. I'm opening the debate, colleagues. You have the floor to speak. Mr. Budinov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u89	Madam President, Mr President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I'm glad the room is quiet even though you haven't paid tickets and we can at least talk a little bit about culture and art. Mr. Rashidov, the chairman of our committee, encouraged me to make that statement. I feel really excited because today, December 4, 2020 is a big day for Bulgarian film industry. Today we will consider a law that has not been substantially corrected and has not worked on it for more than 15 years. In recent years, you have known that the world, Europe, is developing, as well as European and world cinema. There are new trends in it, funding, communication also changed. I am proud to be part of the 44th National Assembly and together we can take a big step for the Bulgarian film industry to bring it a little closer to Europe and the world, to clean up an injustice and to make a gesture to those working in this industry. By importer in the Law, many important things are settled. One of the most significant are those tax breaks that you heard about in the Report. This will bring new money to the Bulgarian economy by making films here in Bulgaria. I am confident that this will lead both to economic revenues and to a lot of added value as an image of our beautiful homeland. These incentives make them our neighbours in the Balkans, in most European countries, and it is evident that they are working very well. It's good for the industry of Bulgaria, you know, there are wonderful cinema teams, beautiful nature, four seasons, architecture, wonderful and diverse locations.. Sea, mountain, which is very interesting for people who want to take pictures here. It is also important that the increase in films is significant, as colleague Veljov said in the Report, I will not repeat this. It is very important, however, that we all unite together here without party biases, it does not matter whether we are from BSP, What happened in the Commission was very nice, we all united together to correct and make this law better and to help the Bulgarian film industry. I hope this debate goes on in that tone. The BSP colleagues suggested increasing the period between first and second readings. I think that this is important, as part of the working groups that were working on the bill, I want to tell you a little bit of opinion within, this bill is far from perfect at the moment. The problems in it are perhaps that basic, theme things have been taken out of the Law and are put in the Rules of Implementation of the Law, but these Rules will be made one month after the Law is passed. You understand how a little becomes Paragraph 22. For her part Jana Karaivanova, who works tirelessly for the cause and the Law, promised that she would make a draft of the Rules by the beginning of January and we will be able to meet him. In my opinion, the most important thing is that the Law has taken out artistic committees, the Financial Commission, as well as others, not to list you very bored with the basic, theme things that I think should be returned to the Law. I think we have a lot of work to do and we can make together a law for artists, for viewers, in which we can limit corruption and conflict of interest in order to have more and better Bulgarian films. I'll finish with one question. I'm sure you all know what the seven arts are. They're first, third, fifth and movie. Thank you for your attention. Let's do it together, guys! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u90	Thank you, dear Mr. Budinov. - What's the line? I can't see. Other speeches, colleagues. Mrs. Yotova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u91	Madam President, honourable Members! We, in the Commission, supported the Law with the explicit agreement. However, the proposals that come from us are also to be taken into account, and these proposals and remarks are as follows: First of all, the Law does not distinguish between the meaning of the concept of the State Agency and the Executive Agency. According to the definition of the first, it has no right to work with State aid, and even has to support itself from its own revenues. According to the second, she is a secondary officer within the Ministry of Culture and a leading policy expressor in her work with state aid, namely the Minister of Culture. Secondly, at first glance from the cosmetic changes proposed in the texts of the Law on the Film Industry, the Financial Commission, which is replaced by the National Commission for Project Assessment, has been liquidated for reimbursement. This committee is now proposed to participate only in the Executive Agency of the National Film Centre and to be responsible for their actions before the Executive Director, who will elect and appoint them. There is no other control body to which they will be reported and which can check them and stop lobbying decisions, and it will now be about almost three times more state funds to help the Bulgarian film industry........................... a total of around 47 million. The National Film Council has so far been elected in the most democratic manner on a proposal from the professional association and non-profit legal entities, and a representative of the Executive Agency approved by the Minister of Culture is also involved. In the new proposal, the members are proposed by the Executive Director of the Executive Agency with the task of supporting and consulting him and not the Minister of Culture of the State's policies in the field of cinema. There are no rules, even in basic terms, on which aid decisions can be offered to applicants to the state, and in the new proposal this depends on the Executive Director and several staff of the Executive Agency, and we know that this does not guarantee non-corruption practices. There is also no control body to regulate the specific decisions of the members of the Commission on project evaluation and state support as a cultural product. There is no requirement that at least one producer is of Bulgarian origin, and this should also be discussed between the two readings and done so that the state support will be directed primarily to the Bulgarian artists. It is not enough only to specify the requirements of the European Union's provisions, but also to specifically sign criteria set by our country. We generally support the proposal for the introduction and successful functioning of the schemes for stimulating film production, but we believe that they should be applied as tax reliefs after the completion of the project, after a check by financiers and not given in advance. Therefore, by supporting, in principle, the adoption of the first reading of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Film Industry and respecting the lack of rules and clarity on the substantial changes proposed in the sub-ordination between the Executive Agency of the National Film Centre and the Minister of Culture, we demand the longest possible period for proposals to the Bill so that we can put in concrete terms our proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u92	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yotova. - What's the line? Mr. Budinov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u93	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mrs. Nona Yotova, colleague, I absolutely support all the points in your speech. I'm glad we're on the same page. We will also support your proposal that the time limit be longer and maximum, and that way all Members of the National Assembly will be able to get acquainted with the Bill. Colleagues, you can also see the opinions of associations, guilds and professional organizations, there are many written and some of the things are very accurate. I am glad that we will all together, outside party, join together for Bulgarian cinema. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u94	Thank you, dear Mr. Budinov. Second line? I can't see. A hole? There won't be. Mr. Rashidov, come in for a statement. Now that's a good tone in the hall. There are also points on which we agree.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u95	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! I'm glad to finally have a movie law. I will not hide that this idea and the discussion started in Sheraton in the presence of the guild in a large circle, with Gergana Passy's commitment, which has become very active. Today I am glad that there will finally be a bill for Bulgarian cinema, because it hasn't been touched for many years. Here I will congratulate Mrs. Yotova for the comments she has. She knows very well that we will do this between first and second readings. Like Mr. Budinov, I agree with everything she read because I will not hide that the conflict of interest is in the person who distributes the money. He's controlling the money. It's a ridiculous story. So between first and second readings, we have to do this because by itself this bill becomes lobbyist and there is nothing to be angry about. Secondly, I have to let you know that in addition to control, the state is interested in where state money goes. Until yesterday, even the filmmakers themselves did not agree to check them out, because it is extremely important Bulgarian cinema since there is a Law on Cinema, the results are not yet the ones we all expect..............................that we want very much as Kosturica, who made Serbia a kinadji state. He became a locomotive. I very much wish in Bulgaria that at least one film will become the locomotive that will draw the cinema and the wagons forward. It's very important! We do not have quality control.. we receive two hours of tape and therefore we need to predict in the Law all forms when we end up spending state millions. Let's not forget that when I became Minister, I regret saying it not to blame anyone, the movie budget was 8.9 million and when I left, it was 16.200. Wonderful! And yet this bill is very necessary to know about these 16,200 what quality we get. I sincerely dream of Bulgarian cinema, which in the series was revived today on TV we have seen wonderful TV series.................that is what I would like to do with both documentary and gaming cinema. It's finally time, you know, a scandal about Michel Bonev, where I took the great Tatiana Lolova, to Venice, was with the Italian Ministry of Culture's money. They ate us who paid for the plane. More importantly, Katherine Deneuve and Tatiana Lolova sat next to each other as equals. It's the self-esteem of a nation. Yes, we ate these frogs why, that a Bulgarian woman was given a reward. Yeah, they gave her a reward. I want Bulgarian cinema, I very much want, because I will really die in Bulgaria surely as a Bulgarian respectable citizen still, if I can continue to be honest, and I very much want Bulgarian cinema not to win awards from Karlovy Vary the crystal beer cup and to brag all day about cinema, which is in a drawer. I really want to win at Cannes. I really want us to win the old festival in Venice. And that's why when we talk about a lot of money and millions, we also have to ask for quality, colleagues. So, Mrs. Yotova, thank you for taking the trouble. Indeed, these are the things that we need to sit between first and second readings, to make it possible for Bulgarian cinema to be financed transparently, the funds to go on quality and not on two hours of tape. It is high time for Bulgarian producers, who are called film producers, not to wait for the state to finance them, but to bring additional money, because this is the role of the producer so that we can develop plus the state and in the private sphere to support Bulgarian cinema. So between first and second reading, I am happy that there is such a responsible Commission, we will sit all together and very dignified indeed to make a wonderful law that works out of which all viewers are happy because there is no need for cinema when the viewer is not happy. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u96	Thank you, Mr. Rashidov. - What's the line? A line, Mrs. Tsvetkova? A statement. Will there be a line? I can't see. Come in for a speech, Mrs. Tsvetkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u97	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The movie industry law is long awaited by the guild. This law was created in 2003 and since then only minor changes have been made. You realize that in 17 years the film industry has developed incredibly much. Thinking about the digitalization of the sector, about graphic design and many other modern techniques that are used in modern cinema, undoubtedly the changes that are being made in the Bill are extremely important. The very fact that in the Committee on Culture and Media, absolutely all members unanimously, no matter and regardless of political affiliation, we have united and voted for the adoption of this bill at first reading. There are several important aspects in the Bill and the changes that are being proposed. One is that funding for film production, distribution, organization of cultural events, festivals and screenings is increasing. The second very important as an emphasis in the Bill, which is proposed, which is extremely important for everyone in the guild, in the film industry is that 25% relief of the eligible costs incurred in the country's territory is offered. It is our primary task, of course, to stimulate the Bulgarian production of films, but also these 25% reductions, this return on costs will attract foreign investments, which we need extremely much because, coming here high budget foreign productions, they hire Bulgarian actors. Between 200 and 1000 people are hired for one production. More than 30 days are needed to make a film, which is prepared two months before, paid per day, additional hours are paid and so on. All this is in favor of the Bulgarian film industry, because besides the actors, besides directors, besides writers, many companies will be involved as drivers, such as food delivery, when closing a street for the photos, paying rent to municipalities, hoteliers, restaurants and so on. That is, by adopting this bill, we will attract investment. This will be in favor of the Bulgarian economy and, of course, a lot of jobs will be opened and, above all, it will be improved the demand by drawing from the experience of large foreign productions, many things will be taught by Bulgarian actors and artists. But there is something very important that has been said here by my colleagues, which we talked about in the Committee on Culture and Media, which is that we need to think very precisely between first and second reading, to refine the texts in order not to allow lobbying, that is, to determine which companies, which producers, which directors to receive state funding. Also, of course, it is extremely important to control the funds how these funds will be spent from the state budget and to whom they will go. So we must unite, and I see that we really have this understanding in the Commission, and we must very carefully refine these texts. The removal of the Financial Commission is not a good idea "only the representatives of the National Film Centre to determine the financing of the projects. One more thing I would like to add to the conclusion is very important theme of the films produced in Bulgaria, of the Bulgarian productions. Let's not allow different and foreign to Bulgarian family traditions ideologies, I say straight-up gender ideologies, to be present in Bulgarian productions as a theme, as of course all productions will generally be in order to increase national dignity and preserve Bulgarian identity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u98	Thank you, dear Mrs. Tsvetkova. - What's the line? Here you are, Mr. Popdimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u99	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! I'm using the line to Mrs. Tsvetkova for something that all my colleagues have spoken before me. Colleagues, there's no politics in culture. Let's point out which political force is ridiculous and even ridiculous. If you go to the creative collectives that work all over the country, you will see that there is no such problem standing, but that is not the main thing in my line. I wanted to say that between first and second reading we should pay attention to something that our professionals paid attention to during the discussion, namely that we should not underestimate the animation and we should also make efforts for its development, as Bulgaria has some very serious conquests and traditions in the animation, as well as a new animal that has appeared in recent years on a global scale, namely television series and television films that have become a real cinema. And in conclusion, Mrs. Tsvetkova, I want to tell you that it is good to really talk more about the artistic side, as Mr. Rashidov said, because yesterday what did one of the biggest American film companies do? She started putting her premieres both in cinemas and on the Internet, from which her profits will no longer grow, but the effect will be different and probably extremely great. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u100	Thank you, dear Mr. Popdimitrov. Second line? I can't see. Mrs. Tsvetkova, would you like to use the back? No. Here you are, Mr. Kutev, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u101	Madam President, honourable Members! At the risk of disrupting the small bourgeois purr heard in this House, I will say that I will not support the Law and refrain from it at first reading. My reasons for this are rooted in Mr. Rashidov's words. When we say at first reading that the control over the spending of public funds is weak and we are aware of it, we say that we will correct it between first and second readings, but it is weak, it leads to the conviction, obviously, by both importers and GERB, that this low control has a lobbyist character, I do not see how then I can vote for.....................................................................! The logic of the first reading is to define the rules that are key. There are key unsolved rules here, but that's not the point. By the way, what Mr. Rashidov was talking about is something else that bothers me. He was talking about the movie law, and this is the movie industry law. This difference for me here is problematic. In my opinion, to a much greater extent, these texts, which I spoke about just now, support the film industry and not cinema, even less Bulgarian cinema. Because I heard now, the lady said that we would feed a bunch of drivers, food suppliers and so on, only that I would like to make a law to feed the Bulgarian producers, Bulgarian directors, the big Bulgarian actors, not the masseuse that participates in the Western productions. I don't mind Western productions coming to Bulgaria. This is good because it is a business and we should think about how to bring Western productions to Bulgaria, but always much greater interests, much more attention should be paid to what we do with Bulgarian artists. Because Western producers work in the American, European market. They work on an English-language market, for example, which has several hundred million users. The Bulgarian market has 6 million. The market is different and that is why we need the support of Bulgarian cinema, i.e. Bulgarian artists specifically more than the industry that is being done here. Because the industry that comes to make big films here, they work, of course, with Bulgarians, but here our big actors rarely participate. The stars that we want to develop, those that will go to Cannes and take the gold anchors and so on, well, these are the ones outside industries and the external productions that don't develop them, they develop another species. Therefore, with a clear mind, I will make the same proposal between first and second readings. I believe that some of the shortcomings can be corrected between first and second readings, but I cannot, with these findings, vote for Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u102	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. First line, Mr. Rashidov, second line, Mr. Budinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u103	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Dear Mr. Kutev, there is no law that is perfect, whether it be for cinema or for bath. Each law is as imperfect as an imperfect human being. In this regard, I believe that whether you vote or not, this is your personal problem. Of course, it's your choice. However, what I am pleased about in order to make an even better law, not perfect, I need my colleagues in the Commission. For me this committee is very well-functioning, it will be useful precisely to create that necessary law for Bulgarian cinema. Bulgarian cinema has always been cared for. Eighty percent, says the Law for now, should be financed by the state, that is, by the Ministry of Culture, and 20% external funding. Until today, external funding was from the National Television, which is also on budget. Bulgarian cinema until today is financed 100% by the state. What do we want with this bill? I just took the liberty of saying: producers don't take money from the state, producers find money external to the cinema, help the state and help the cinema. Yes, of course, Mr. Kutev, we all want to have quality control now. I am counting on the Commission to make the necessary amendments in order to make the Law better, it is not perfect, there is no such law, so that we can have quality, not only tape. Because I will not forget, when you came to power with Mr. Oresharski, you returned the theater to Svishtov and today there are no viewers.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u104	The weather, Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u105	The working theaters again fund the non-workers. We didn't do anything else because we don't love Silistra and we don't like artists. The theater needs it if the viewer needs it. Why do you need a theater for yourself? So the city can have a badge?! That's what happened to Smolyan...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u106	The weather, Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u107	...we still don't have any viewers today. The point of the theater is that people need this theater. This law is coming. I'd love it if you'd join us, improve some things. Yes, he does. Yeah, I'm afraid she's lobbying. I just told you that, and you say that, too, which is wonderful. He can't control the money. He can't control the money. That tells me something bad. That is why all together there is plenty of time between first and second readings, we will reunite with our colleagues from the Film Centre, we will gather the whole Commission, all together, and so we will be useful to one law, otherwise we will only contradict each other and stand a sterme in everything, it will not give birth to anything. It's barren! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u108	Thank you, Mr. Rashidov. Second line? Mr. Budinov, come in. I wish I could be strict in time, but how do you stop artists and artists from talking?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u109	Madam President, honourable Members! I'll be really brief. Mr. Kutev, I mean, I admire you. How can you be an expert on absolutely all matters? You're really a Renaissance guy. How do you know anything, I don't know?! I think we really need to calm down and continue to make this law together. In art there is no place for politics, so I will just draw attention to you that the Bill is thought and is made so that the money that comes back to foreign investors are the same that return to Bulgarian investors, so that the footage that works in the cinema is not engaged only in foreign productions, but also to pay attention to Bulgarian cinema. A lot of things are balanced. The working groups have worked for over a year on this bill. However, there is much work to be done between first and second readings, as my esteemed Mr. Vejdi Rashidov said, and I think that we should do it together. Let us be good, humble. We have plenty of time. Anyone interested in Bulgarian cinema can help. I'm glad the debate and the subject are interesting for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u110	Thank you, Mr. Budinov. Third line? Mrs. Tsvetkova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u111	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Kutev, you obviously didn't listen well enough to what I said. The focus of my words was that it was we who should develop the Bulgarian footage in film production, i.e. the attention to the development of Bulgarian producers, directors, actors, of course, operators. The other things that are secondary, but are also important as an investment, you quoted them exactly, but the accent of my words was different. I would like to tell you that so far high budget films have hardly invested in Bulgaria precisely because there are no reliefs. Now that these benefits have been introduced, we expect as well as a hundred countries in the world have similar cost reductions in filmmaking. Let us take, for example, Greece, which, after a form of crisis, increased these reliefs and the reimbursement of costs by more than 30%, in Belgium over 40%, so we all hope that this will be in favor of the Bulgarian film production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u112	Thank you. Mr. Kutev, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u113	Dear Mr. Budinov, I have been trying to speak, especially in the last year or two, only about the things I understand, and only when I have something to say in both this room and publicly in the media. Basically, I want us all to do this. I don't know what your capacities are. I've heard you talk only about culture. To be honest, I haven't always agreed with what you're saying, not because I think we have some political differences, because I've been thinking a lot about the problems of cinema, not to mention that I've spent four years at the NATFIZ. I graduated from the Academy of Art, I think I have the basis on which I can think on a cultural topic, and in two mandates in a row I was a member of the Committee on Culture and Media. To be honest, I didn't sign up for it just because there was no way we could work with Mr. Rashidov. Maybe we'd end up killing each other. From that point of view, I didn't want to be a part of it. Now let's go back, Mr. Rashidov, to you. For the Silistren Theatre, we found it, you shut it down again. There's no theater there anymore, but there's a hall. If there's no one to watch him, why is there a hall? So when the other theaters come, you can fill the hall, but when the Silistren Theatre works, it can't be filled. Why? If there was something that, by the way, won me the second term in Silistra, I guarantee you that it was you, because in 2013 the promise that we would return the theatre, the Initiative Committee, was what the second term did to me. It brought me at least 3,000 votes there, without which I would not have become an MP. Not that I'm grateful, but I'm telling you, it was a gross mistake on your part.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u114	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Any other speeches? You're welcome, Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u115	Mr. Chairman, allow me. Let me be clear, Mr. Chairman, I have to let you know that the audience is the only thing that's worth having something about whether it's theater or fine art. So, please, let's make these debates more ripped off, because you don't have to have only graduated from higher education in a specialty without being one. Every year the National Academy of Art is graduated from 100 people, and for 100 years we can list only ten big Bulgarian names. As for the real theater, all over the world play those actors who lead an audience. The audience is very necessary for the survival of a theater. Not every theater plays just from Baltimore people, and Al Pacino goes from time to time. What we call the bears in our home is necessary because we are already in a civilized Western world an actor who leads an audience will be a guest. I can assure you that on local soil, 80% of the theaters in the country are from amateurs, not professional. Almost all professionals are in Sofia. Nor is it necessary to keep a diploma in your pocket to be significant, nor is it necessary to maintain something for which state money is spent. That's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u116	Thank you, Mr. Rashidov. I fully support your opinion. In the manner of conduct please, Mr. Popdimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, I would like to point out to you that what Mr. Rashidov said is not entirely true that he should not mislead you! It is absolutely not necessary to do theatrical performances and to make films for many audiences. Even on the contrary, there are works of art that are deliberately made for a small audience to be understood by a smaller audience that can understand them. Secondly, to inform you that you have been fooled by the fact that there are amateur actors in the country. There is not a single actor in Bulgaria outside of the Sofia theatres who is not a professional actor. This is for your information. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u118	Thank you, Mr. Popdimitrov. I agree with your opinion, you are also right. [[Radio.]] Here you go, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u119	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Firstly, I would congratulate filmmakers on what is happening in this House, and, of course, in the Commission, the agreement we have talked about. However, I also wish we had an agreement when an importer is not only the Council of Ministers, but an importer is also a party from the opposition, in this case only one BSP. Mr. Rashidov said just now and was right about the Bill we are looking at right now that the Financial Commission cannot hand out money and control them, do this work. He's right, Mr. Rashidov, that's what we say, but we say it also in relation to the Radio and Television Act, which is cooked and has not yet entered the Chamber, where the SEM will hand out the money and control it, and as Mr. Rashidov said in both cases this is not right. It's just not right. I would like to tell you that there is really no room for politics in both culture and sport or decisions that concern experts. But the people who are in the guild, in the industry, need to hear debates like this today, was of consent, was of disagreement. You don't have to call us out of the stands to calm down. We have calmly had this debate in the Committee on Culture and Media and, as you have heard, the chairman of this committee thanked the representatives of the portfolio Commission. Finally, to some colleagues. I, like those present here in the Chamber, have to tell you that I have participated in a big Bulgarian film. And as a participant in the Committee on Culture and Media, and in the film I'm talking about, I think I can, Mr. Budinov, exchange some professional or amateur opinions on my part and on your part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Come in, Mrs. Tsvetkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u121	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Chenchev, please read these bills before speaking in the Chamber! The problem is not that the Financial Commission will distribute the funds, the problem is that the Financial Commission is closed and only the representatives of the National Film Centre will determine the financial projects.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u122	Any other lines? I can't see. Hole, here you go, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u123	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Tsvetkova, I don't know who should read what, but you listen to these speeches! I didn't say that, Mr. Rashidov said that very specifically and quite on the subject. He said it. He's in the gym. He can tell you. So when there's a debate from the stands and it's constructive, just listen to the debate so you don't make the mistakes you make often. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Film Industry, No 002-01068, submitted by the Council of Ministers. 125 MPs voted: 116, none, abstention 9. You're welcome, Mr. Veleov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u125	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the House! On the basis of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that the time limit for written proposals on the bill for amendment and supplement to the Film Industry Act, No 002-01-68, be extended by three weeks.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u126	Thank you. I shall put the proposal to the vote. They voted 114 MPs: for 114, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next point: The amount to be reported in this column shall be the amount to be reported in this row. Mrs. Stoyanova, come in and present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u127	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, No 054-01-106, submitted by Menda Kirilova Stoyanova and a group of MPs on 27 November 2020. At a meeting held on 2 December 2020, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that bill. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mrs. Menda Stoyanova. The amendments and additions proposed in the Draft are related to the need for urgent introduction into the Bulgarian legislation of Council Directive (EU) 2020/1756 of 20 November 2020 amending Directive 2006/112/EC on the common system of value added tax as regards the identification of taxable persons in Northern Ireland, as well as the possibility discussed at European level, Member States to temporarily exempt from value added tax the supply of vaccines against COVID-19 and medical devices for in vitro diagnostics of COVID-19 test kits and services closely related to such vaccines and articles. With regard to the Agreement withdrawing the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and the Protocol on Ireland and Northern Ireland, which is an integral part of the Agreement, it is envisaged that, after the expiry of the transitional period on 31 December 2020, the provisions of Union VAT law continue to apply in Northern Ireland for the next four years in respect of transactions in goods. At the same time, all other transactions in the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland will be subject to the relevant UK VAT legislation, which will be treated as a third country from the point of view of the Bulgarian law. For the proper functioning of the Union VAT system in Northern Ireland, separate VAT identification numbers with a specific prefix will be introduced. The bill also provides for the introduction of rules that will allow to reduce the costs of vaccines against COVID-19 and medical devices for in vitro diagnostics of COVID-19, as well as services closely related to such vaccines and articles. The adoption of the proposed amendments to the VAT will not result in additional costs for the debtors and the administration, given that the new status of the persons established in the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland is regulated, therefore only the tax rate for the taxation of the supply of vaccines and tests for COVID-19 changes. Following the discussion of the draft, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: with 16 votes for the draft budget and the abstention committee, No 054-01-106, submitted by Menda Kirilova Stoyanova and a group of MPs on 27 November 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. For the Report of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds Mr. Stoynev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u129	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, No 054-01-106, submitted by Menda Kirilova Stoyanova and a group of MPs on 27 November 2020. At a regular meeting held on 2 December 2020, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, No 054-01-106, submitted by Menda Kirilova Stoyanova and a group of MPs on 27 November 2020. The bill was presented by Mrs. Evgenia Angelova, Member of the National Assembly, importer of the Bill. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Mina Yankova, Head of the Department of Tax Policy at the Ministry of Finance. The importers point out that the amendments and additions proposed in the Draft are related to the need for urgent introduction into the Bulgarian legislation of Council Directive (EU) 2020/1756 of 20 November 2020 amending Directive 2006/112/EC on the common system of value added tax as regards the identification of taxable persons in Northern Ireland and the possibility discussed at European level to temporarily exempt from value added tax the supply of vaccines against COVID-19 and medical devices for in vitro diagnostics of COVID-19 testing sets and services closely related to such vaccines and articles. Furthermore, it is stated that, in relation to the Agreement withdrawing the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and the Protocol on Ireland and Northern Ireland, which is an integral part of the Agreement, it is envisaged that, after the expiry of the transitional period on 31 December 2020, the provisions of Union law in the field of VAT should continue to apply to Northern Ireland for the next four years in respect of transactions in goods. At the same time, all other transactions in the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland will be subject to the relevant UK VAT legislation, which will be treated as a third country from the point of view of the Bulgarian law. It is intended for the proper functioning of the Union VAT system in Northern Ireland to introduce separate VAT identification numbers with a specific prefix. The bill also provides for the introduction of rules that are expected to allow to reduce the costs of vaccines against COVID-19 and medical devices for in vitro diagnostics of COVID-19, as well as services closely related to such vaccines and articles. As a result of the vote that took place after the discussion, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds proposed unanimously with 7 votes to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax, No 054-01-106, submitted by Menda Kirilova Stoyanova and a group of MPs on 27 November 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u130	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Speaking, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u131	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We in the Budget Committee supported the draft and in the discussions it became clear, of course, that we need to support the EU directives................................................. the EU directives........................... and the EU directives.............. There's no question about that. There is no question as to the issue of VAT on vaccines, although I would like to make an agreement here, and that is why I asked for the floor. I have a question for the importers, purely economic. Yesterday you refused to enter explicitly in the Law that vaccines will be made free of charge for Bulgarian citizens. Isn't that right? Now you continue to claim that they will be made free of charge. I ask: what is the point of this text in the Law, honourable Members, to exempt from VAT? VAT is collected by the Bulgarian state in the budget revenues, the vaccines will be paid by the budget expenditure. Can someone come out and tell me what the point of what you're doing is? Tell me! VAT is for the benefit of the state, vaccines are paid by the state as you claim, although you refused to sign it into law! Or maybe you're lying! [[Relations of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova.]] I don't know! Maybe they'll pay! And why did you say no, colleagues, what we proposed a few days ago to reduce VAT from 20 to 9% of all medicines for Bulgarian citizens? Don't Bulgarian citizens and some Bulgarian families now spend hundreds of thousands of levs on these diseases and in this pandemic of COVID-19? So I have a question for the importers. Yes, we will support, come out and explain to the Bulgarian people is not this elementary political propaganda? Why bother us with these things to gain some popularity when the left pocket comes out of the 20 percent and goes into the right pocket? Please explain what this trick is about. Because if the state is going to pay, it's absolutely pointless! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u132	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I don't see any other speeches. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, No 054-01-106, submitted by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. They voted 98 MPs: 98, no opposition and no abstentions. The bill has been passed. Let's continue with: THE LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE CREDIT LINE AGREEMENT BETWEEN BULGARIA AS A CREDIT CREDIT AND SINGLE RESTRUCTURING COUNCIL AS A CREDIT BENEFICIARY. Importer of the Council of Ministers. You have the floor, Mrs. Stoyanova, to introduce us. The report of the Committee on Budget and Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will first ask for a procedure to shorten the period between the first and second reading of the newly adopted bill to 4 days.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u134	Thank you. I shall put the proposal to the vote. Vote 99 MPs: 97 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u135	♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Credit Line Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria as a creditor and The Single Restructuring Board as a borrower, No 002-02-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 November 2020. At a meeting held on 2 December 2020, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that bill. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mrs. Rositsa Velkova. The bill for ratification of the Credit Line Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria as a creditor and the Single Resolution Board as a borrower is proposed in fulfilling the Republic of Bulgaria's commitments regarding the country's accession to the Single Supervisory Mechanism and the Single Resolution Mechanism. The agreement was signed by the Minister of Finance and the Chairman of the Single Resolution Board on 7 October 2020 and approved by the Council of Ministers Decision of 28 October 2020. Each Member State participating in the Banking Union shall provide a national credit line to support its national division in the Single Resolution Fund in the event of a possible shortage of funds to finance the restructuring only to banks in the country concerned during the transitional period until the target level of the Fund reaches 31 December 2023. The credit line between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Single Resolution Board amounts to 113 499 099,01 euros. This amount corresponds to the contributions due by the Bulgarian banks to the Single Resolution Fund for the period 1 January 2016. 31 December 2023 The amount is laid down in the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2020 in the operations in the part of the financing of the budget balance and is planned in the Draft Budget for 2021. The total amount of loans granted and outstanding on the basis of the Agreement shall not exceed the fixed amount of EUR 113 499 099,01. Under the Agreement, the absorption limit for each specific case depends on the amount of funds available in the European Fund and those drawn from other sources. Loans are up to 24 months, with the possibility of an extension of 12 months. For the duration of the loan, the EGP shall pay interest in the amount of the actual or estimated financing costs of a similar amount and of a similar duration of 24 or 12 months of loans used by the creditor. The national credit line can only be activated at a last resort if there is a shortage of funds in the Single Resolution Fund and after all other sources of funding have been exhausted, including the available funds in the national divisions and in the Fund's common division, as well as the capacity of the Single Resolution Board to benefit from loans from external sources. Given all this, the probability of the national credit line being activated is minimal. The credit line will be active until the end of the transitional period 31 December 2023, or the earlier introduction of a common safeguard mechanism with an estimated date by the end of 2021. The agreement is subject to ratification by a law of the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4, 5 and 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Following the discussion of the Bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: with 16 votes in favour, no votes against the draft and abstention, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposed to the National Assembly to support the first vote Draft for ratification of the Credit Line Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria as a creditor and the Single Resolution Board as a borrower, No 002-02-18.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Mr. Stoynev, you have the floor to present the Report of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u137	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Credit Line Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria as creditor and the Single Resolution Board as borrower, No 002-02-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 November 2020. At a regular meeting held on 2 December 2020, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law on ratification of the Credit Line Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria as a creditor and the Single Resolution Board as a borrower, No 002-02-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 November 2020. The bill was presented by Mrs. Tsvetanka Mihailova, Director of the Directorate of Financial Market Regulation at the Ministry of Finance. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Rositsa Petkova, Head of Department of the same Directorate. On the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4, 5 and 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria by this bill is proposed to the National Assembly to ratify by law the above Agreement concluded on 7 October 2020. The importers point out that the Bill for ratification of the Credit Line Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria as a creditor and the Single Resolution Board as a borrower is proposed in fulfilling the Republic of Bulgaria's commitments regarding the country's accession to the Single Supervisory Mechanism and the Single Resolution Mechanism. The reasons explain that the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria to the Single Supervisory Mechanism by establishing close cooperation between the European Central Bank and the Bulgarian National Bank (ECB decision 2020/1015 of 24 June 2020) , automatically leads to accession to the Single Resolution Mechanism pursuant to Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No would lead to accession to the Single Resolution Mechanism of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 July 2014 establishing uniform rules and a uniform resolution procedure for credit institutions and certain investment firms within the framework of the Single Resolution Mechanism and amending Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010. According to the text, the credit line between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Single Resolution Board in the amount of the contributions due by the Bulgarian institutions to reach the target level of the Single Resolution Fund should be added to the total amount of the credit lines of the Member States of the Eurozone. The specific amount of contributions due by credit institutions for the period 1 January 2016 The amount of the national credit line for the Republic of Bulgaria, respectively, amounts to 113 million. 499 thousand. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within The amount is laid down in the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2020 in the operations part of the financing of the budget balance and planned in the budget for 2021. It is indicated that the credit line will be active until the end of the transitional period 31 December 2023, or the earlier introduction before the end of the transitional period, of a common safeguard mechanism the estimated date of which is the middle of 2021. After the relevant date, the Credit Line Agreement shall be terminated and the country's commitment to loan funding shall, if necessary, be withdrawn. It is clear from the reasoning that the total amount of loans granted and outstanding on the basis of the Agreement may not exceed the fixed amount of 113 million. 499 thousand. 099,01 euros. According to the agreement, the absorption limit for each specific case depends on the amount of funds available in the Single Resolution Fund and those drawn from other sources. Loans are up to 24 months with the possibility of an extension of 12 months. For the duration of the borrowed loan, the Single Resolution Board shall pay interest in the amount of the actual or estimated financing costs of a similar amount and of a similar duration of loans used by the creditor. As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds unanimously proposed 7 votes for the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill for ratification of the Credit Line Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria as a creditor and the Single Resolution Board as a borrower, No 002-02-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 November 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u138	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u139	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! As you have seen from both reports, our fellow Members from our parliamentary group of BSP have strongly and unanimously supported the proposed bill. I want to bring some clarity, and if we can be useful to the colleagues who were bored while listening to the texts, it will be clear what this is about. First, once accepted in the Banking Union, Bulgaria as a new member states commitments to the banking security systems of the Banking Union and one of these mechanisms is precisely the Single Resolution Board. Each Member shall, depending on the size of the gross domestic product, allocate from its budget each year a certain amount. This amount for Bulgaria is almost one euro short. Euros. Dear Members, now that we are voting, this amount is already included in Bulgaria's budget for 2021, it can be used by the end of 2021, but if our contribution is used, it will be against interest according to the rules and market levels. In addition, the loan is fixed, as the colleague said, two years, a maximum of three years, where interest is accumulated and the money is returned to the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria. If these funds are not used 2021, they will be transferred again, we will vote in the 2022 budget for 2023. The amount is 114 million. Euros. It is not worrying according to the Bulgarian budget, but, of course, firstly, we have an obligation and, secondly, once we have entered the Banking Union, we must also use the opportunities in addition to the obligations. God forbid, with problems of individual banks, this resource should be used to solve problems. So this is a good economic solution within the Bank Union and there is no reason why we should not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u140	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Are there lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Mr. Prodanov? [[GERB lines.]] It's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u141	On behalf of the group, the procedure is for a 30-minute break.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u142	I'm calling a recess for 15 minutes. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u143	Colleagues, please take your seats, continue. Mr. Tzipov, procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u144	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My procedure is to extend the work on the legislative part until the end of item five "Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code and then begin parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u145	Thank you. A reverse opinion?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u146	Dear Mr. Chairman, for another week on Friday you are trying to eat the parliamentary control of the opposition time, the time during which we have to ask questions to the ministers who do not already come to the plenary, and for this reason I ask for a name check before the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u147	Where's the opposition?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u148	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u149	Dear colleagues, once again, the opposition from BSP does not want to take advantage of the opportunity to exercise its right to parliamentary control. Friday is opposition day and they deliberately sabotage the work of the National Assembly. Please show the cameras...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u150	I want procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u151	I don't give you the manner of conduct. I've started the roll call. Adlen Shukri Shevked is absent. Albena Vladimirova Naydenova- absent Alexander Dimitrov Pawnov- absent Alexander Ivanov Matsurev- here Alexander Koychev Ivanov- here Aleksandar Mairov Siddi-here Alexander Nikolaev Sabanov- here Alexander Petrov Alexandrov- here Alexander Rumenov Nenkov- here Alexander Tihomirov Simov- absent Altimir Emilov Adamov- here Anastas Marinov Popdimitrov- absent Angel Iliev Isaev- here Andrian Ivanov Raykov-- here. Anna Vasileva Alexandrova (through the Internet) video conference platform)- here Anna Nikolaeva Slavova- absent Anton Konstantinov Kutev- absent Asya Atanasova Peeva- here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov- here Atanas Petrov Kostadinov- absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov is absent. Bogdan Emilov Botsev- absent Boris Vangelov Borisov- here Boris Petkov Kirchev- here Boris Yankov Yachev- here Borislav Ivanov Borisov- here Boryana Lyubenova Georgieva- here Bürhan Ilyazov Abase - absent Valentin Alexiev Nikolov- here Valentin Georgiev Lambev- absent Valentin Ivanov Radev- here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov- absent Valentin Mirchov Milushev- here Valentina Alexandrova Naydenova- absent Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov- absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov- here Vasil Milanov Antonov- here Vasil Tsvetkov- here Eyebrows Letif Rashidov here Velislava Ivanova Krasteva- absent Venka Kostadinova Stoyanova- here Vesela Nikolaeva Lecheva- absent Veselin Naydenov Mareshki - absent Veska Marinova Nencheva- absent Violeta Ruseva Jeleva - absent Vladimir Slavchev Valev- here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev(through the Internet) video conference platform)- here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov- here Galya Eneva Zaharieva- here Galya Stoyanova Zhelyazkova - here Georgi Georgiev Mihailov- absent Georgi Georgiev Stoilov- absent Georgi Dimitrov Andreev- absent Georgi Evdokiev Markov- absent Georgi Zaprev Dinev (through the Internet) video conference platform)- here Georgi Yordanov Yordanov- absent Georgi Kolev Kolev (through the Internet) video conference platform)- here Georgi Nikolov Vergiev- absent Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - absent Georgi Tenev Stankov- here Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski- absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov- absent Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova- absent Daniel Petkov Yordanov- absent Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova- here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva- here Daniela Dimitrova Maleshkova- here Daniela Dobreva Dimitrova- here Danka Evstatieva Zidarova-Lurtova- here Dean Stoyanov Stanchev- here Delyan Slavchev Peevski- absent Desislaw Petrov Taskov- absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov- absent Desislava Angelova Todorova- here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova- here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva (through an internet platform) for video conference) here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov is absent. Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov is absent Dilyan Stanimirov Dimitrov- here Dimitar Boychev Petrov- here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev- here Dimitar Velichkov Georgiev - absent Dimitar Ivanov Avramov- absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev- here Dimitar Ivanov Danchev- absent Dimitar Krumov Alexandrov- here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov- here Dimitar Stoyanov Stoyanov- absent Dobrin Nenov Danev- absent Donka Dimova Simeonova- absent Dora Ilieva Yankova- absent Dora Stoyanova Hristova- absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev- absent Evgeni Genchev Budinov- here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva- here Evgenia Danielova Angelova- here Evdokia Slavchova Asenova- absent Elena Vladimirova Angelina - absent Elena Stefanova Pesheva - absent Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov- absent Emil Marinov Hristov- here Emil Seraphimov Tonchev- here Emilia Veselinova Staneva-Milkova- here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin is absent. Errol Osman Mehmet-- absent. Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev- absent Brought to you by Vassilev Iankov- here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov- absent Ivan Dimov Ivanov- absent Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev- absent Ivan Nikolov Mihovski- here Ivan Stefanov Valkov- here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov- absent Ivelina Veselinova Vasileva - here Ivo Angelov Hristov- here Iglika Ivanova-Subeva- here Ilian Angelov Timchev- absent Imren Ismetova Mehmedova- absent Irena Metodieva Dimova- here Irena Todorova Anastasova- absent Honest Vasilev Veselinov- here Ihsan Halil Hakke is absent Yordan Apostolov - here Yordan Iliev Yordanov- here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev- absent Kalin Dimitrov Vassilev- here Kalin Lubenov Velev- here Kalin Nikolov Popovski- here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva- here Kolyo Yordanov Milev - absent Konstantin Veselinov Popov (through the Internet) video conference platform)- here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev- here Krasimir Georgiev Tzipov- here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov- here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev- here Krasimir Mitkov Subev- here Krasimir Hristov Jankov- absent Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Cristina Maximova Sidorova- absent Krum Kostadinov Zarkov- absent Krastina Nikolova Taskova- here Lalo Georgiev Kirilov- absent Lilyana Drumeva Radeva- here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov- absent Lyubomir Boykov Bonev- absent Manoil Minchev Manev- here Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Margarita Nikolaeva Nikolova- absent Maria Yordanova Ilieva- here Maria Yordanova Tsvetkova- here Maria Shtereva Belova- here Martin Stefanov Obreshkov- absent Menda Kirilova Stoyanova- here Milen Vassilev Mihov- here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova- here Milko Nedyalkov Nedyalkov- absent Mitko Kostadinov Polychronov- here Mikhail Ivaylov Hristov- absent Mladen Nikolov Shishkov- here Mustafa Sally Karadaye- absent Nadia Spasova Klisurska-Zekova - absent Nelly Ruskova Petrova- here Nigyar Sahlim Jaffer is absent Nikola Iliev Dinkov- absent Nikolay Asenov Tishev- absent Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov- absent Nikolay Georgiev Ivanov- absent Nikolay Dimitrov Penev- absent Nikolay Ivanov Tsonkov- absent Nikolay Krastev Boshkov- absent Nikolay Tsvetanov Sirakov- here Nikolina Panayotova Angelkova- here Nona Krasteva Yotova- missing Pavel Alexiev Hristov- here Pavel Dimitrov Shopov- absent Petar Georgiev Kanev- absent Peter Hristov Petrov- here Plamen Dulchev Nunev (through the Internet) video conference platform)- here Plamen Ivanov Manushev- here Plamen Tachev Petrov- here Plamen Trifonov Hristov- absent Polina Alexandrova Shishkova- absent Polina Tsvetoslavova Tsankova-Hristova - absent Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev- absent Radoslava Plamen Chekanska- here Radostin Radoslavov Tanev- here Ralitsa Trilkova Dobreva- here Ramadan Bajram Atali is absent Rosen Zhivkov Ivanov- absent Rosen Malinov Malinov - absent Rumen Vassilev Gechev- absent Rumen Nikolov Georgiev- absent Rumen Petrov Genov- here Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev- here Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova- missing Svetlana Angelova Naydenova- here Sevim Ismail Ali is absent Sergey Manushov Kichikov- absent Simeon Georgiev Naydenov- here Simeon Hristov Simeonov- absent Slavi Dichev Netzov- absent Slavcho Stoev Atanasov (through the Internet) video conference platform)- here Smilyana Nikolova Niva-Krsteva- missing Spas Georgiev Gurnevski- absent Spas Yanev Panchev- absent Stanislav Ivanov Popov- here Stanislav Ivanov Stoyanov- here Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov- here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov- here Stanislava Krasimirova Stoyanova- here Stefan Apostolov - here Stefan Ivanov Burgeev - absent Stay Mitev Stoynov- here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev- absent Stoyan Radkov Bojinov- here Tanner Mehmed Ali is missing. Tanya Todorova Petrova - absent Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov- absent Teodora Atanasova Halacheva- absent Teodora Radkova Georgieva- here Todor Baychev - absent Toma Lubomirov Bikov- here Thomas Nikolov Tomov- absent Filip Stefanov Popov - absent Hayri Recepov Sadakov- absent Halil Rexepov Letifov is absent Hamid Barry Hamid-- absent. Hassan Ahmed Ademov - absent Hristian Radev Mitev- here Hristo Georgiev Gajev-here Hristo Tanchev Prodanov- here Flower Valcheva Karayancheva- here Tsvetan Borisov Topchiev- absent Chavdar Yordanov Velinov- absent Julian Krastev Angelov- here Yulian Mihailov Papasimov- here Yavor Bozhilov Notev- here Yavor Rumenov Bojankov- absent
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u152	Where's Mrs. Alexandrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-04.u153	I read it, Mrs. Alexandrova. It was on the screen. If you'd been in the gym the whole time... Mrs. Alexandrova, show yourself that Mr. Prodanov wants to see you. Such insolence I just don't want to comment! Mr. Prodanov, look at what this is about and be ashamed! See that colleagues who are in clinical condition participate in the meeting to provide your group with a quorum in order to have parliamentary control. It's embarrassing. [[Applause from GERB.]] We don't have a quorum, colleagues, we won't continue. The next regular plenary session is on Wednesday at 9:00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
