ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that the following additional item be included in the weekly Programme for the Work of the National Assembly.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I also propose point 7.1. "Requests by the MPs associate Dr. Georgi Yordanov and a group of MPs to the Minister of Health on a strategy for improving the working conditions and financial compensation for the Bulgarian medics, to drop out of the weekly program and parliamentary control, including answers to questions and questions, to begin after the completion of your proposed item first. I will tell you why, fellow Members, because tomorrow the Minister of Health has an online meeting of EU Health Ministers and therefore the point cannot pass tomorrow in parliamentary control. Please, voting mode. They voted 175 MPs: 111, against 30, abstention 34. The motion is accepted. Messages: Deputy Minister of Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that in implementation of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces by its own orders has authorised the passage through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria of a non-military nature of: - a military transport plane Il-76 with its crew from Russia's Air and Space Forces, the Russian Federation to transport personnel from Serbia to Moscow to participate in a parade and return them. The authorisation shall be valid for the period from 11 to 27 June 2020 for a total of four fields; - A military transport plane Il-76 with its crew from the Air Force of Ukraine. The authorisation shall be valid for the period from 12 to 16 June 2020 for a total of two fields for the transport of medical property from China to Ukraine; - a military transport plane Il-76 with its crew from Russia's Air and Space Forces, the Russian Federation to transport personnel from Moldova to Moscow to participate in a parade and return them. The authorisation shall be valid for the period from 13 to 27 June 2020 for a total of four flights. The notifications were received on 10 June 2020 with entry No 003-09-40, 41 and 42 and submitted to the Defence Commission. Colleagues, we continue with: THE SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE MINISTERITY OF INTERNAL WORKS. Paragraphs have been reported, corresponding editorial corrections have been made. We have not had any debates, so you have the floor for debates, speeches. I can't see.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u2	I request that the paragraphs 101 to 103 be voted on separately.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u3	Mr. Hristov, to ask you, since yesterday you led this item with the editorial, to take the vote, and colleagues asked you to vote each item separately. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u4	Colleagues, let me remind you that yesterday the contents of each paragraph have been presented, and we are done. We are going to vote, as a condition has been set for a separate vote, all the texts presented will be voted on one by one. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 74, which shall become § 100. They voted 164 MPs: 116, none, abstention 48. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Ivan Ivanov and a group of MPs. Vote 168 MPs: 56, against 44, abstention 68. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 75, which shall become § 101, supported by the Commission. They voted 149 MPs: 115, none, 34 abstentions. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create two new § 102 and § 103 with a text on the Commission report. Vote 161 MPs: for 151, against none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 104 with a text on the Commission report. Vote 154 MPs: for 153, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u5	Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! You put the next text to the vote, but I promptly asked for the floor for a re-voting procedure, so I really ask for the previous...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u7	Let's reschedule the previous vote on § 102 and § 103. Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u8	Yeah, it just didn't make sense to me which paragraphs... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u9	Colleagues, I will re-vote § 102 and § 103, the text proposed by the Commission is on the Commission report. Vote 159 MPs: 158, against none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 76, which shall become § 105 with the proposal for replacement in the text by the Commission. Vote 155 MPs: for 110, against none, abstention 45. The motion is accepted. Before putting to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for § 77, there is a proposal for editorial amendments made by the National Representative Krasimir Tsipov. They are in paragraphs 1 and 2 and were presented in the Chamber yesterday. I put to the vote the editorial amendments made by Mr. Tzipov. Vote 138 MPs: 94, none, abstention 44. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for § 77 by importer, which shall become § 106 with the editorial amendments already adopted. They voted 139 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 38. The proposal has been adopted, with which we have concluded the second vote. We continue with the third point of the National Assembly's Work Programme: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE BULGARIAN BLACK CROSS. Importers - Alexander Nenkov and Iskren Veselinov. The Commission's First Voting Report on Legal Affairs. You have the floor to present the report, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Bill for Supplement to the Law on the Bulgarian Red Cross, No 054-01-20, submitted by Alexander Rumenov Nenkov and Iskren Vasilev Veselinov on 9 March 2020. At its meeting held on 3 June 2020, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law supplementing the Law on the Bulgarian Red Cross, No 054-01-20, submitted by Alexander Rumenov Nenkov and Iskren Vassilev Veselinov on 9 March 2020. The meeting was attended by the Bulgarian Red Cross: Academician Hristo Grigorov Chairman; and Professor Dr. Krasimir Gigov. The bill was presented by Mr. Nenkov, who pointed out that it regulates a legal possibility on property He added that the Bill is in line with the Law on State Property and State Aid Law and clarified that it provides for the establishment of a training centre by the Bulgarian Red Cross. Academic Grigorov added that the International Federation of the Red Cross and the Red Crescent are planning together with the government of the Republic of Bulgaria the establishment of a European Centre for the Preparation and Training of Specialists in Disasters, Accidents and Accidents with a capacity of up to 1200 people, as well as the construction of a regional warehouse for disaster preparedness and educational institution for the training of paramedics. On the bill were received opinions from the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, the Ministry of Health, the Bulgarian Medical Association and the Bulgarian Red Cross. In the discussion of the Bill took part the MPs Alexander Ivanov, Desislava Atanasova, Christian Mitev and Todor Bajchev. Mr. Ivanov and Mr. Mitev expressed their support for the Bill and pointed out that it will achieve the achievement of noble and legitimate goals. Ms. Atanasova added that among the priorities of the government of the Republic of Bulgaria in the field of health is the training of paramedics and the bill should be supported. In response to Mr. Baychev's question, Mr. Grigorov clarified that the three projects are financed entirely by the headquarters of the International Federation of the Red Cross and the Red Crescent in Geneva. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 20 votes for the National Assembly, without abstention and without abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for Supplement to the Law on the Bulgarian Red Cross, No 054-01-20, submitted by Alexander Rumenov Nenkov and Iskren Vasilev Veselinov on 9 March 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u11	Thank you. Report from the Committee on Health. Mr. Tonchev, you have the floor to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Your attention. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Bill for Supplement to the Law on the Bulgarian Red Cross, No 054-01-20, submitted by Alexander Nenkov and Iskren Veselinov on 9 March 2020. At its regular meeting held on 28 May 2020, the Committee on Health examined and discussed a bill supplementing the Law on the Bulgarian Red Cross, No 054-01-20, submitted by Alexander Nenkov and Iskren Veselinov on 9 March 2020. The meeting was attended by: Deputy Ministers of Health Dr. Boyko Penkov and Mrs. Zheny Nacheva; representatives of the word and patient organizations in the field of health. The bill and the reasons for it were presented by the National Representative Alexander Nenkov. The Law aims to regulate the legal possibility on property "public or private state property, with the exception of property exclusive state property, to be able to establish a free right of construction for the benefit of the Bulgarian Red Cross in order to satisfy the public needs permanently, taking into account the activities carried out by it with public purpose and significance. Mr. Nenkov noted that the Bulgarian Red Cross will not be able to use the built-up site to carry out economic activity and the control for this is entrusted to the district governor at the location of the property. The reasons for the bill explicitly state that the proposed version of a new art. 5a in the Law on the Bulgarian Red Cross is in accordance with the Law on State Property and the Law on State Aid. An opinion on the bill was expressed by academic Hristo Grigorov, Chairman of the Bulgarian Red Cross. Academic Grigorov shared on a proposal made to the Bulgarian Red Cross by the President of the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent companies Mr. Francesco Roca for free donation of funds to build a European centre for training specialists in disasters, accidents and accidents, as well as to build a school for paramedics. The President of the Bulgarian Red Cross expressed concern about the proposal for temporary granting of building rights on public or private state property, as when the building right was established for a certain period, after its expiry the building site would be free of charge to be owned by the state. Under these conditions, Geneva will not grant free funding for the construction of such a centre. During the discussion, the MPs Professor Georgi Mihailov, Dr. Nigiar Jafer and Dr. Kalin Popovski expressed support for the bill, noting that between the first and second votes, the proposed provision should be refined. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: 17 votes for the President, without the Presidential Court of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 054-01-20, tabled by Alexander Nenkov and Iskren Veselinov on 9 March 2020..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u13	Thank you, Mr. Tonchev. Report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Here you go, Mr. Dinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u14	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a Bill for Supplement to the Law on the Bulgarian Red Cross, No 054-01-20, submitted by Alexander Nenkov and Iskren Veselinov At a regular meeting held on 14 May 2020, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed a bill supplementing the Law on the Bulgarian Red Cross, No 054-01-20, submitted by Alexander Nenkov and Iskren Veselinov on 9 March 2020. Representatives of the State Property Directorate of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works took part in the Commission meeting. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Alexander Nenkov. According to the Law on the Bulgarian Red Cross BCC is the only national organization of the Red Cross in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. It is part of the international movement of the Red Cross and the Red Crescent. The Bulgarian Red Cross is an autonomous organization that supports the state in the humanitarian area, in preparation for actions in martial law, military conflicts and disasters, in order to protect and strengthen the health of the population and for its upbringing in a spirit of high morality, mercy and charity, as well as in the adoption, preservation and distribution of assistance provided by foreign countries, organisations and citizens with humanitarian, including environmental and cultural enlightened objectives. The provisions of the current law require the Bulgarian Red Cross to be assisted by the state. The state institutions, companies and citizens are obliged to assist the Bulgarian Red Cross in carrying out its tasks. The Draft Law for Supplement to the Law on the Bulgarian Red Cross regulates a legal possibility on properties.. public or private state property, except for the properties.. exclusive state property, can be established free of charge right of construction for the benefit of the Bulgarian Red Cross for lasting fulfillment of public needs in the light of the activities carried out by it with public purpose and significance. The proposed legal framework in art. 5a is in accordance with the State Property Act and State Aid Law. During the discussion the MPs supported the need for the proposed supplement in the Law. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 17 votes in favour, without the opposition and the abstention, proposed to the National Assembly a Draft for Supplement to the Law on the Bulgarian Red Cross, No 054-01-20, submitted by Alexander Nenkov and Iskren Veselinov, to be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u15	Thank you. Mr. Nenkov, you have the floor to present the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! I will present the Project which Mr. Iskren Veselinov and I have decided to offer to your attention a draft supplement to the Law on the Bulgarian Red Cross. I regret that Academician Grigorov is missing because the Bill was actually initiated by the Bulgarian Red Cross, but there is no way for him to be present today in the Chamber to explain in more detail the reasons for writing this project. Now I'm going to explain the reason why I'm in a hurry to get through as fast as possible. As you know, the Bulgarian Red Cross is a non-profit organization part of the Red Cross and the Red Crescent, in exceptional cooperation with our country. I believe that in the years it has proved its great influence, especially at difficult times, when the state and the people who are extremely needy needed the Bulgarian Red Cross. To this day, they do this function conscientiously. The motive for writing this bill is as follows. As part of the international organization of the Red Cross, the Bulgarian Red Cross has the opportunity and there are talks to make a logistics centre for Balkan countries in Bulgaria, on the one hand, and on the other, the establishment of a Centre for Training of Personnel to benefit the international organization. This is a great privilege and, I dare say, an important step in validating the authority not only of the Bulgarian Red Cross, but of our entire country at all. Imagine with a sense of pride, if we know and if the world knows that in Bulgaria there will be trained footage from all over Europe, from all over the world, they will receive a diploma that will actually be from the Bulgarian state and these people will be trained in the territory of our country. For this purpose, however, there are two important factors without which this cannot happen. The first is the financing of one such project and in the words of Academician Grigorov this funding has already been secured. Perhaps for more than a year there have been talks with the international Red Cross organisations, who are ready to finance such a project. For this purpose, however, it is necessary to provide the Red Cross with land to be used precisely for the creation of this training centre and a logistics one. The aim of the Bill is to enable the state to establish a free right of construction of its private or public territory in the name and for the benefit of the Red Cross. Clearly in the Bill is written the way, the order in which this will happen. Of course, the initiative will come from the district governor, where the respective territory is located, where we are willing to establish the right to build the Red Cross. It will then pass through the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and a decision will be taken by the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Regional Ministry. It is clearly written in the Bill not to allow for commercial activity. I mean that the free establishment of a right of construction must be related only to the needs of the Red Cross for what I just mentioned, without in any way having a commercial attitude to this activity. That is precisely why in para. 1 You can see, it is clearly written that there is no way the establishment of a right to construction to serve any commercial purpose. The criteria are clearly described, as well as the control of not happening in the future, and the function of a control body will perform the district governor on whose territory the land is located, and each year in this regard the district governor will also provide a report on the activities of the Red Cross proof that this is used for non-profit purposes only. I am pleased that in the two Committees on Health and Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, the MPs from all parliamentary groups supported this bill. There are some details that may need to be made between the first and second votes and at the request of the Bulgarian Red Cross. This, of course, is to happen in the coming days if we adopt the Bill today. I am pleased that the project has met the approval of all parliamentary groups and I believe that this is a noble deed. I think that the creation of such a logistical and training center of personnel will raise authority if it happens, life and health, not only of our organization, but of our country as a whole. I hope that today we will all unanimously support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Mr. Mikhailov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honourable importers of the Bill! At the very first reading in the Commission, we stated that the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) will support this draft law in the first vote, because we deeply respect the activities of the Bulgarian Red Cross and its functions not only on the territory of the country, but also its participation in international actions that support citizens from around the world. However, what impressed us, which impressed other colleagues from the Commission, is that for a case I shared this with Mr. Nenkov personally during the discussion, a whole bill is being made. The case is the terrain located in the Lozenska Mountains, for this logistics centre, and in the Bill all the territories on which the jurisdiction of the Bulgarian Red Cross is distributed. That is to say, this has also been said by other MPs between first and second readings, we will insist and follow to be carefully refined the legal texts regarding the possibility of using the property, i.e. the lands on which this draft law is determined, by the Red Cross, in the possibilities it defines the Law in the way it is now implemented through its importers. This must be refined in order to be really for the benefit of the Bulgarian nation and the specific purpose for which it is intended. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u19	Thank you, Mr. Mihailov. Are there lines? Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm calling off the debate. I put to the first vote the bill supplementing the Law on the Bulgarian Red Cross with the importers of the National Assembly Alexander Nenkov and Iskren Veselinov. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next point of the Work Programme: REPORT ON THE WORK OF THE ELECTRONIC MEDIA COUNCIL FOR THE PERIOD 1 JANUARY 31 DECEMBER 2019 Importer of the Electronic Media Board. Opinion of the Committee on Culture and Media. Mrs. Chekanska, you have the floor to present the Commission's opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u20	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I want to do a procedure on the grounds of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please allow Mrs Betina Joteva to be President of the Council for Electronic Media.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u21	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the proposal for admission made in this House. Vote 79 MPs: 68 against 9, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Invite Mrs. Joteva. Mr. Nedyalkov has a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u22	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I think that Mrs. Sofia Vladimirova should be invited to the hall, who led the Council for Electronic Media during the period whose report we are looking at now. So I ask you, as President, to ensure the presence of the previous President of the Council for Electronic Media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u23	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. We'll consult on it, notify Mrs. Vladimirova. Please continue with the submission of the opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u24	"COMMODITY" on a report on the activities of the Electronic Media Council for the period 1 January "31 December 2019', No 030-00-2, submitted by the Electronic Media Council on 31 March 2020. At a regular meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media held on 21 May 2020, the report on the activities of the Council for Electronic Media for the period 1 January 31 December 2019 was discussed, No 030-00-2, submitted by the Council for Electronic Media on 31 March 2020. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Council for Electronic Media (SEM): Betina Joteva President, Sofia Vladimirova Member, Emilia Staneva Secretary General, and Nezabravka Nikolova Chief Accountant. The report was presented by Mrs. Betina Joteva. Annually on the grounds of art. 39, para. 1 of the Law on Radio and Television The Council for Electronic Media shall submit a report to the National Assembly on its activities no later than 31 March of the following year and shall publish it on its website. It provides information on: the audio and audio-visual sector in Bulgaria; it oversees the activities of media service providers; licensing and registration of radio and television programmes; legal activities and case-law; international, financial, information and administrative activity. In the activities of the CEM in 2019 the two specialized monitoring of election campaigns for members of the European Parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria on 26 May 2019 and the elections for municipal councillors and mayors on 27 October 2019. The previous year is characterized by three procedures for the selection of Director-General of the two national public media. The Bulgarian National Radio and Bulgarian National Television. During the reporting period, the media regulator has monitored the programmes of BNR and BNT in compliance with the conditions of individual licences. The Programme of the Bulgarian National Radio Programme has been monitored for compliance with pluralism as required by the Radio and Television Act from 1 July to 26 September 2019. As a result of this monitoring of the Programme of the Bulgarian National Radio Horizon, it is estimated that there is pluralism of views in the surveyed emissions, news and up-to-date-public transmissions with political and economic themes for the observed period. The SEM has also supervised the activities of media service providers on numerous focused observations on the occasion of the specific events of the incident with three young men in the village of Vojvodinovo and the subsequent civil protests; the case of the 16-year-old student accused of preparing a terrorist act in the city of Plovdiv; the case of violence against children; the reality formats of programs of BNT and In 2019, the CEM carried out a total volume of monitoring of radio and television programmes of 35 088 hours, of them for 68 television programs of 19 588 hours and for 57 radio stations of 15 500 hours. As regards the other main activity performed by the CEM, licensing and registration is noted that no dynamics are observed. In the radio sector there are 60 media service providers who have individual licences to deliver 84 programmes via terrestrial analogue broadcasting. In the cable distribution of radio programs there are 23 registered radio service providers that create 24 radio programs. 111 Bulgarian providers who create 146 television programs are registered in the audiovisual media services sector. Six programmes created by four audiovisual media service providers are distributed through terrestrial digital broadcasting networks. The report states that the CEM for 2019 issued 31 penal decrees. Of these, 25 have been appealed and cases are pending or cases pending before the courts concerned, six have not been appealed, 47 judgments have been given which have concluded legal proceedings against criminal judgments issued by the Chairman of the CEM in the period 2014 - 2019. 36 penal decrees have been confirmed, one has been amended and nine have been repealed. With regard to the fact that the Law on Radio and Television does not provide for a link between the mandates of the Director-General of BNR and BNT and the members of their Boards of Directors, the CEM proposes the possibility to discuss possible legislative changes which will ensure greater stability of management by binding the mandates of the members of the relevant Board with that of the Director-General who proposed them. During the discussion took part the MPs Vejdi Rashidov, Alexander Simov, Velislava Krasteva and Maria Tsvetkova. After the discussion the MPs from the Committee on Culture and Media with 10 votes for the Council of Electronic Media, 3 votes against and without abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to accept the report on the activities of the Council for Electronic Media for the period 1 January 2019. On 31 March 2020, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 231/2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u25	Thank you. You have the floor for speeches, colleagues. I'm opening the debate. Come on in after that, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u26	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of Parliament, dear Mrs. Joteva! I allow myself to make several recommendations to the Council for Electronic Media and the supervision it carries out. One of the recommendations is related to a topic which I did not see in the CEM's Report on its work in 2019. What I highlighted in the Committee on Culture and Media, and what I want to express here, however, from the platform of the National Assembly, in order to sharpen the attention of the media, is related to a false practice which is observed on the television broadcast. It is that some televisions broadcast interviews with citizens of Macedonia, but below they place subtitles in Bulgarian. Translating these interviews, we actually maintain the false thesis that this language is different from the Bulgarian language and that there is a Macedonian language, which is really scandalous, contrary to the historical truth and to the national interest, given, of course, and the opinion of scientists from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, as well as the official state position that the language they speak in the Republic of Northern Macedonia is a form of Bulgarian language. Dear Mrs. Joteva, I appeal to you, to the members of the CEM in the conversation I understand that you have warned TVs about this, but let us also sanction such televisions if, of course, it is within your authority. This topic has been placed more than once by colleague Krasimir Bogdanov in the Committee on Culture and Media and by other colleagues from IMRO. The second topic on which I want to focus and draw your attention is to focus on the subject of false news. We have received and examined in detail your negative opinion, the negative opinion of the CEM, the false news, the IMRO's bill on false news, and one of the reasons is the lack of administrative staff and the need for additional technical and software resources. We will support the increase in the number of CEM employees as well as the increase in the budget of the CEM, but very much please focus precisely on limiting the spread of false news. I'll give you some examples. For example, during the European elections and during the local elections in the air of a party TV, the false news that MEP Angel Dzhambazki had an apartment of Shan-z-Elysées, which is absolutely false. Along with a few more unseemly lies, this became the main line of a setting party and occupied much of the air on this party television. Not to mention fake news, such as the fact that they're installing 5D chips through another non-existent vaccine, which is widely shared, leading to psychosis. So, dear Mrs. Joteva and members of the Council for Electronic Media, our appeal to the parliamentary group "United Patriarchs" is precisely to focus on limiting the spread of false news, because the false news is the scourge of modern times, they pollute the media space and undermine the prestige of Bulgarian journalism. I will support your report, but with those reservations that I have expressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u27	Thank you, dear Mrs. Tsvetkova. Are there any lines to the statement? Here you go, Mr. Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u28	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Mrs. Tsvetkova! I do not agree with one part of your speech, as a treaty has been approved here in Parliament, especially at the insistence of the United Patriarchs. Its final part says: "In each of the official languages of the Contracting Parties, the Bulgarian language, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, and the Macedonian language, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Macedonia. So we can't blame, at least here, for many other sins we can blame the Council for electronic media, but for this, a treaty approved by the parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria and it is included in the Council for Electronic Media to comply with its requirements?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u29	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. Second line? I can't see. A hole? You have the floor, Mrs. Tsvetkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u30	Dear Mr Nedyalkov, in the Treaty of Good Neighborhood between Bulgaria and Macedonia it is written that it is signed in the languages according to the constitutions of each country. There is no question and I do not know why you are trying to question the opinion of the scientists from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences? In general, I repeat, the official state policy is that the language they speak in the Republic of Northern Macedonia is a form of the Bulgarian language.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Tsvetkova. Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u32	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! I'm afraid I won't be able to maintain the highly professional conversation that we started this debate with, and I'll try to say something a little bit more generally. I have been trying, together with several other colleagues, for several years to use every occasion to have a meaningful conversation in the National Assembly about how Bulgarian media operate, how they are regulated, what is the basis of the legislation, what the powers of the SEM are, whether they are sufficient or not, whether it is necessary to change, at all how the SEM as a result performs its functions. Colleagues will be speaking specifically on this report shortly. I will quite deliberately speak only one point in this report and this is "between page 31 and page 35" about the procedure on which the Director-General of the National Radio was removed in September last year about things that happened in September. I have a very difficult problem. I'm starting with this to justify all the bigger problems that I think stand for, but it's indicative, this very moment is indicative that in all the justification... By the way, I mean, it's one of the few things I like about the CEM last year. They're small, but that's one of them. The CEM was probably the only institution that reacted properly, in fact, to remove this radio manager. If it weren't for them, no wonder Svetoslav Kostov was still the head of the radio. They reacted then and they were the institution that removed him. My problem, however, is with the argument they recorded. On about four pages they very detailed the argument why it was removed. And it is removed only according to the CEM because of the interruption of the program of the broadcast of Radio Horizons, which is purely technical, of course, it is very important. It is related to a bunch of laws.. National radio cannot interrupt, it is a matter of national security and so on. It's clear that can't happen. However, the problem is that in their argumentation there is not a word that concerns media freedom and possible impact on the media, which was mentioned. And I use here that there's not a word in theirs. I guess now the answer will be, well, that's none of our business. They will tell us: no one has assigned us to do such a meaningful analysis and to seek out those responsible for it. We are perfectly formal in terms of technical parameters. That is why I am addressing Mr. Rashidov, who is now sitting before me, as chairman of the Committee on Culture and Media, to ask who is in charge? Since the CEM is now gonna tell us they're not answering, I'm gonna ask who's in charge? And since we have asked this question more than once, and already several times, several years in a row, I would like to remind you that on 17 September, i.e. around the time the scandals about the National Radio go on, we have challenged here with colleagues a debate on freedom of the media, funding of the media and so on. This debate, by the way, ended with a joint decision that all MPs voted on, including those from GERB. We have had one proposal, you have made amendments to the proposals and finally the decision is said to the Council of Ministers by 31 March, on your proposal extended date not February, as we wanted to propose to the National Assembly a plan, not a strategy, as we wanted, for the development of the media environment in Bulgaria, which will also contain a model of funding of public media, and guarantee their financial and editorial independence. This decision of the National Assembly was voted with full unanimity, including the votes of GERB. As I recall, March 31st is over! It's June now. I know that there are working groups working on which to the Media Committee, which to the Ministry of Culture and nowhere to go or at least I don't know how far they've gone. In public, nowhere! And here I want to bring you back to something that directly concerns this inaction of ours, because it is directly related to the CEM, because what the CEM performs or does not perform depends on what we have assigned them, or we have not entrusted them. And if there is a huge problem here in terms of freedom of speech, in terms of media regulation, in terms of how the media is regulated at all, because, well, the CEM is at some point regulating public media, although, as we see, they are not regulated by what reason journalists are being released, whether there is political pressure on the media is not the work of the CEM. What about private? What about the dozens of journalists who have already been fired in the last few months, key journalists who are getting fired, absolutely, even without explanations in private media, although, frankly, we all suspect why these are the ones who fired them and not to mention that some of us know very well. What protection does the National Assembly or the CEM give them? And if the National Assembly and the CEM don't give it to them, who gives them protection? Who somehow guarantees that there is some basic, simple, somewhere at the level of physical hygiene culture? Says who, who guarantees it? I didn't see one! And here I have a special address to you and I offer you in connection with all this, that is, with the common guilt of the National Assembly in the face of its majority and of the CEM, because together you have failed to find the way for these years, despite our insistence, despite the legislation submitted by us, which you did not accept, but despite all our efforts you have explained to us how there are other ways to resolve things. And solve them! The term's over, people! You've been in power for ten years. When will you decide? How long do we have to wait?! Mr. Bikov, your committee, which we each talk about, is over. Here I read part of your Commission because it directly concerns this issue of freedom of the media and the CEM. According to Sotir Tsatsarov: The Watching Prosecutor has made the maximum in order to clear all details that are related to hours, phone numbers, including within minutes, so that the alleged by one group of witnesses and the categorically denied by the other group of witnesses can be clearly determined on the basis of the results obtained from the printouts of mobile operators. Mr. Bikov, why didn't you get the printout? How long does it take for the National Assembly to get the printouts? Come on now, Mr. Bikov, please join me in insisting that we don't accept the CEM's Father until Mr. Geshev comes to get our prints. According to Mr. Tsatsarov, we clearly understand whether there is a political impact. This is what he says with this quote that you are quoting him, I am quoting you. He says clearly that this may be that they will give them the printouts and it will become clear who influenced them. Come on, until it's clear, because then... Right now, Attorney General Geshev is investigating the candidate for Prosecutor Geshev?! It's too connected for me. It's about the same person. And since, as far as I understand, he claims to be the instrument of justice, let's come to prove this quality here. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u33	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Are there lines? We continue with the speeches. Here you are, Mrs. Yotova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u34	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Electronic media, such as a regulated market for information services, are largely a measure for two important public sectors, on the one hand, the development of the media environment and, on the other hand, the development of state policy in the sector. The Council for Electronic Media was established by the Law on Radio and Television to regulate the processes so as to ensure both freedom of expression and the development of the media environment and the implementation of the priorities of state policy in the sector. Particularly is the role the legislator has assigned to the CEM on the sites of national security, which are in the two public operators - Bulgarian National Television and Bulgarian National Radio, and the responsibility of the regulator derives from it. If we go further back in time, we will find that there were not one or two proven professionals and authorities in the media and in society. Unfortunately, the quality composition of the Council has recently been such that it makes it a generator not of development, but of problems, scandals, imbalance and illogicality in positions, actions and behaviour. This is the CEM if you look in the mirror of society. In the past few years, the CEM has written its story with actions which it sees not only incompetence, but also political commitment, economic dependence, lobbying, decisions that jump from the other side of the Law. Is there a logical explanation for its contribution to the transformation of the National Radio by an authoritative public media into a disorderly territory of mutually hated and hostile about everything and uninterrupted camps? Will he be responsible for the corrupted competitions for the Director-General with the choice of the most inappropriate, but supported by their political patrons candidates? Why did they allow the last Director-General to be elected under conditions that would create the prosecution's work? And how will they share the responsibility for destabilizing the National Media with abuses and violations committed by their elected several consecutive CEOs? Whether intentionally or because of incompetence, the Council creates instability in public media with its unwillingness to cross the negative trends in them. During the emergency situation, the CEM allows the acting Director-General to travel to the United States of America for one month's leave. He chooses him in violation of the Radio and Television Act with an active firm. In fact, he was elected on 22 January 2020. His firm is a document from the United States [[shows document]] , is closed on 17 February 2020. Yes, you may say that the report does not cover this period, but the selection procedure of the Director-General begins much earlier and is at that time, for which the report is. And on the other hand, I wouldn't want to wait next year at the same time to talk about this because I think it's extremely important. And I expect an unambiguous answer how will they assume their responsibility for the state in which the National Radio is located? And in case they fail to cope with this crisis, what time will they submit their resignations? Because it's high time to stop sweeping away the problems, to pretend that the problems don't exist at all, given that we're at 111th place in freedom of speech in the world. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u35	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yotova. - What's the line? We continue with the speeches. Mr. Chenchev, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u36	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chairman, I'm going to ask for an extension of the group's time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u37	Let's go! Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go,
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u38	Now the situation is such that we are currently discussing a report, the scope of which is within the last calendar year, we have a new chairman of the CEM, who is in the Chamber. A colleague of mine proposed what happened to Sofia Vladimirova, who was supposed to come here and be responsible for the actions of the CEM for the last calendar year? Did you call her to the gym? Did you invite her? A few things need to be made clear. This regulatory authority, because before me, my colleague Kutev spoke, this regulatory authority, the CEM, to several of our questions answered, to put it mildly, offensively. He answered the questions of our parliamentary group in the Commission, what ideas he has, how he sees the development of the media environment in Bulgaria and, of course, his actions and functions in terms of freedom of speech. We can't, because we are currently looking at the CEM's report and you can see what the situation is in this House, and all of us are very indifferent to the ruling majority accepting what we are talking about. And it's nice to hear it! It is good, because, as colleague Yotova said, we, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, I, Anton Kutev and Alexander Simov, have raised the question of the CEM regarding the election of the new Director General and we have been answered in writing and officially. Yeah, the procedure started last year. It became clear that at that time there were three choices for Director-General. Yes, Mr. Kutev spoke about the Report and the Committee of inquiry, which was set up regarding the suspension of the Radio, said already what his considerations were and, of course, that we continue to seek the answers, all the more so that we There was no other way because we were involved in the work of the Commission. We agreed on many things, but we disagreed on our particular opinion in relation to the particular printouts Mr. Kutev spoke of. But what was the CEM's response? It is good to hear this thing, because otherwise the SEM will still respond with the echoed smiles and throws, and Bulgaria will stay at 111th place! Maybe now I need to get excited by the stands, maybe I should start raising my voice, yelling to hear it, but I am really making it clear that it is better to hear the Bulgarian citizens and viewers than you, because it is absolutely nothing to you ladies and gentlemen! Depends on your fingers and depends on how you perform commands, and we see that you perform them well. So the questions specific to the selection of the new Director-General are nice on this topic, by the way, to pay particular attention and to do, if we need to debate and ask, we will talk to colleagues, but whether it meets the conditions that were under the selection procedure and everything else. See what it says in the terms: To possess the applicant at least a five-year service experience in radio. " This man comes from the United States of America! A few moments ago, colleague Yotova showed you an official document from the US state of New Jersey, according to which I think it is scandalous, this man, Director General Baltakov, has suspended participation in a company on February 17th. He was elected Director General on 22 January! And, see, first of all, where's his five-year internship in this radio? Secondly, there are other things here that we can at least debate a copy of evidence of the necessary service. Note that the applicant had declared to the CEM that he had all the positive prerequisites for taking up the post. How does that sound? Positive prerequisites for posting?! Very interesting! Very interesting! Maybe it's coming from the United States of America, and there's some kind of unprecedented know-how? By the way, his know-how, which is probably being performed at the Radio right now, came as a result of the selection of the CEM and this procedure that they announced. And now let's see that he had given declarations signed on the date of submission. But he had a firm on the date of submission!? But the CEM says there's nothing here. It's all clear because he said so. Who's gonna take responsibility for this thing? And as a result of his know-how, this man has now so aroused the Radio that at the moment the Bulgarian National Radio represents an amazing hive of interests and everything else. Not to mention that I personally ask what he manages after I tell you, I don't know if you know, but there the important decisions are made by the Governing Council. He'll probably be traveling to America, going back and so on, but right now the radio is boiling and boiling and the problem is not solved in any way. Here, too, an opinion from the CEM that the written evidence submitted by Baltakov, including the circumstances declared by him, led to the conclusion that the applicant, if you see, met the requirements. Well, now that he's got a firm, what does the SEM do, what measures did you take? And this 111th place, when we ask what is the attitude of this regulator in Bulgaria? The colleague Kutev said, who is responsible? If it's not the CEM, if it's not the National Assembly, who is it? Whoo! Silence in the court. These are the important questions. We are indeed aware of the scope of the report. By the way, copy-paste of the Report. But copy-paste! If I give it to you and compare it to last year's, and for years, you'll see what it's about inside: copy-paste! For this practice the Bulgarian National Assembly and the Bulgarian National Assembly must make an informed decision. Here we accept a report for a whole period of regulator and just like that, somehow, indifferently sweeping under the carpet. We've appointed a magnificent general director with some unseen know-how, but such a know-how that half of the BNR's editing will move somewhere to the Black Chick. Probably! [[Heckling]] That's what you let in! So you have to take not exactly attitude, you have to feel responsible, not just a function of one person in the country. Thank you. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u39	Thank you, dear Mr. Chenchev. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Simov. Before I give you the floor, just to provide information on the proposal to invite a member of the CEM to the plenary. In connection with the proposal to invite Mrs. Sofia Vladimirova, member of the Council for Electronic Media and former Chairman, to participate in the consideration of the Reporter of the Council for Electronic Media for 2019, the following should be taken into account: In accordance with art. 31, para. 2, p. 1 of the Law on Radio and Television The Council for Electronic Media is represented by its President, in this case Mrs Betina Joteva, who is admitted and present in the Chamber. When discussing the activities of a body elected in whole or in part by the National Assembly, art. 90 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in particular para. 7 " 11 " when the report of the activity is examined in plenary. Therefore, the requirements of the applicable provisions of the Law on Radio and Television and the Rules of Organisation and Activity of the National Assembly are met and there is no need for the presence of another member of the collective body. Come in for a statement, Mr. Simov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u40	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! For me, this debate is very strange, since it speaks only one part of the Chamber, the other is silent.. It is already a matter of political choice, of course. But every time I stand on this stand to discuss the report of the Council for Electronic Media, I have a slight Hollywood sensation. There was a movie, I remember, with Bill Murray the Enchanted Day, on which one day it was repeated over and over and over and over again. I have a similar feeling every time we discuss from this tribune the document of the Council for Electronic Media, as it is the same, desperately technical, formal, I would say written as there is, without any actual analysis of what the Council for Electronic Media should be dealing with. Yes, we accept that regulatory frameworks are important. Yes, we assume that other technical observations are also significant. But the big question is that we have no other option to raise the subject of freedom of speech unless we use the CEM report to hear a few things from this tribune. The debate in the Commission on the subject has gone more than interesting, because, of course, every time someone mentions the famous 111th place, there are always people who theatrically start to get up from their places and claim that this ranking is fictional, ridiculous, untrue and it is an insult to the real journalists. By the way, I have also heard a similar statement from the current chairman of the Council for Electronic Media Betina Joteva, who says that alcoholized [[noise and lines]] Journalists-degenerates created Bulgaria's bad image in this regard and insulting other journalists. And then he asks himself: if the head of the Council for Electronic Media believes that there is no problem with freedom of speech, to come out and explain to us where she sees her bloom, where she sees the situation improving, where she sees freedom, where she still sees the development of the media environment! Because we live in a very strange world. Here we are explained that there is no problem, here we are told that everything in Bulgaria is developing and at the same time the people in social networks, the people outside, are starting to count lists of shot journalists who literally no longer have access to the air. Where's the truth? And if the Council for Electronic Media does not take into account this topic, who should be concerned with someone from the Veterinary Control Agency? Who exactly should be concerned about the great subject of freedom of speech? And why is that? It is also a very important issue which Anton Kutev put out of this tribune, it is not normal to describe in your report one of the biggest scandals that rocked Bulgaria last year, namely the scandals in the BNR, and not to write a single word about the fact that the main problem in this scandal was the suspicion of political pressure in the BNR, the suspicion that there was pressure on journalists, which continues, among other things, as we see systematically making bad decisions in relation to the BNR. These are the important questions that we expect to be answered. By the way, for three years now, I have not seen a representative of the CEM take a stand from this tribune and comment on the important topics. And that creates a sense of absurdity. We can talk about the same subject for another five years, we can constantly put this issue and it will be the same thing. Not 111, but the 150th place will soon be very high. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u41	Thank you, dear Mr. Simov. Are there any lines? I don't see any lines. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u42	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I see you have accepted the position to chew freedom of speech, but none of you have said what is the definition of freedom of speech. There will be no definition until we know what false news is. And this 111th place -- various NGOs cannot be a representative sample for the freedom of speech of a free country. This is a constant cavalry of the Bulgarian state. To the Bulgarian state! On a question from our envoy in Germany where they get information about this freedom of speech in Bulgaria, this was not understood. Who's the informant on this thing? How long will someone dirty the name of the Bulgarian state? I deeply do not believe that Bulgaria is so far back in freedom of speech. I don't believe it! Yeah, there's gotta be a problem. It's always been there and always will be. From this tribune I have said: freedom of speech is in the hands of the media themselves. From here I have asked you, colleagues: is there one to point out who has forbidden this freedom to actually exist? Point it out! Give an example! [[Heckling]] It's not nice to yell at me! I can call you too, but that's not the point. I'd rather stop abusing this thing. [[Reply on the left.]] Yeah, I'll let you know. In May Bulgaria was to host a discussion with the presidents of culture and media on the problems with false news, because this disease is a European and world disease, it is not only a Bulgarian patent. We need to find form and legal common decisions on how to recognize all these false news, and only then can we understand if it is freedom of speech. Because if there isn't a day, there's no way of knowing what that night is! If there's no good, we can't know if it's evil! How come we're only talking about freedom of speech without talking about false news? Both terms have no definitions, colleagues. So let us keep the name of Bulgaria clean. I believe that Bulgarian journalists do not like us to play this way with their nerves. Yes, if there are problems with censorship and freedom, it is in the hands of the media themselves. And I will tell you once again: all media in Bulgaria are corporate. I'm done. Hence, from Parliament, to accuse all colleagues of this false freedom, which we are very much in need of talking about because you feel that you are an opposition, no, you are lying to yourself. You're just part of this whole mantra that's spinning. And nothing more! You're not responsible people! Is this how parliamentary responsibility is borne when we are asked to guarantee this freedom? Is this the way? I think we have a committee that works well. I don't know why when you come to this room, the problem starts to become political, and this problem has to be solved together. Not just you, and I need freedom of speech. It doesn't just belong to the media as you want us to talk. No one is a holy cow. This freedom belongs to each and every one of us as people, as citizens. Therefore, please don't put Bulgaria's name as one again, there is no other country in which you want to put us: 111th place! Who told you that? Some NGOs! Is it official statistics? Is that state-of-the-art behavior? Is that a attitude towards our national media? Yes, we have wonderful media, they're quite free, unless they're limited by themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u43	Thank you, dear Mr. Rashidov. - What's the line? First of all, Mr. Simov. After that, Mr. Chenchev. I can't see a third line. Here you go, Mr. Simov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u44	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Rashidov, I take this line to tell you that your speech here reminds me of something like the systematic behaviour of the political power you represent. So, in your opinion, the problem is the problem of speech, the problem of vocabulary. The moment you say there's a problem, it means there's a problem, and if you shut up about it, there's no problem, like for example, which a minister has recently demonstrated to us. So it's those who are responsible for corruption that talk about corruption, not those who actually benefit from it, if we have to translate it! I am sorry, but I do not think that the conversation about freedom of speech in any way humiliates Bulgaria or in any way brings the media to its knees, because there is a problem with freedom of speech in Bulgaria, or at least a large part of journalists think so. And I'm sorry, but there's no way with good speeches from here to convince them the opposite, many people have experienced it on their backs, continue to test it and pay the heavy price for wanting to stay free. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u45	Thank you, dear Mr. Simov. Second line, Mr. Chenchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u46	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Rashidov, my line will be directed in the following aspect. We're dealing with a CEM report. In addition to freedom of speech and false news, there is a written report they have provided and it is about him. You said: give an example to see how the truth is established. The inquiry committee Mr. Kutev is talking about here is the example! And that there is no result from this committee of inquiry. After all, we didn't understand! Despite what the Attorney General said back then. Here is the example of establishing the truth! And as we are talking about the CEM report, we are talking specifically even by technical parameters, we have information that, let's say, the newly elected Director General of the CEM does not even have a workbook. If it's gonna meet the conditions for a general director of public media, I don't know, it doesn't sound good to me. And on this thing, the CEM says that in the inspection he had given evidence. But you can see he didn't close his firm until the end of February. However, it is in this report of actions and functions of the CEM. And here we want to hear the CEM's attitude on the issue.. this is the regulator in Bulgaria, the CEM's attitude. Who, if not the CEM? Who, if not the C.E.M. to give their opinion on this? Because the colleague is talking now whether we're 111 on this ranking, but the problems are there, the ranking is official, though, and in it, thank God, we're ahead of Nepal, we're ahead of Nepal. But if we don't have an objective ranking, how do they account for Nepal? How did Nepal get to be ranked in this place? So at the very least, if you want, but we want to hear the opinion of the CEM whether it is already within their powers, whether it is not, but this is the Council for Electronic Media and this is the regulator. If we don't hear their opinion, I don't know. They're the professionals. There is also a change in the CEM in terms of the chair, we have three choices as Director General of Public Media, and that is what this is about. And that's why I'm telling you that this report is gray and boring, and in our opinion, the CEM has made an error in an official document: New Jersey State, America date when it closed its firm. [[shows document]] There he is! So this guy during his election as CEO had a firm. In the terms of the procedure it says that this thing cannot be, moreover, that it says: This is outrageous, ladies and gentlemen. It's outrageous! And now, as a result of this choice, the radio doesn't know how far it's gonna go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u47	Thank you, dear Mr. Chenchev. Third line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u48	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I'd rather answer something that was in Mr. Kutev's statement. In many directions he put problems, and serious ones. One of the serious problems of the SEM and Mr. Chenchev just repeated it, yes, of course, we need to see where the powers are and what powers the SEM has in order to be able to speak in this way about the SEM, did the legislative authority give sufficient rights to the SEM, the SEM to have the capacity to act on everything that is a matter for the SEM? Yes, of course, the main thing here is whether we will soon have an amendment, or a media law, where indeed all of us can discuss it together in the Committee on Culture, and in some public debate, we will not do it in any case so quickly, here we need to see what powers we can bring into this law, to have the CEM and to seek, i.e., responsibilities further from the CEM. At the moment we are sitting on an old legislation, asking the demanding questions are also difficult questions, probably many of them are very legitimate. Yeah, I'd ask questions like that to the CEM, and I watch TV, and I have objections, and I have resentments, and I'm a free citizen with claims of free speech, but what are the rights? So I assure you, Mr. Kutev, we are now at the end of this bill. We found out that 80% of the Law was made in the Ministry of Culture, we were waiting for it to come to the Committee on Culture and we had two parallel groups that worked, so very soon we will all sit together to discuss a very serious modern, modern, new law that would enable both the CEM and protect the interests of the media. You all know that law will not be made against them, but for them, we all need such free media. Yes, Mr. Simov, and I will answer you. I highly appreciate you as a colleague, a smart, young man, but I say we don't overdo the game for this 111th place. An NGO put us there and we don't want to go out. We're all willing to get away from the 111 that you're putting us on. I am sure that the Bulgarian media do not deserve to rotate them continuously on 111th of this freedom, they do not deserve, as long as we have played with this 111th. So let's drive a little bit more, let's give the media the right to be happy and have and enjoy their freedom.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u49	Thank you, dear Mr. Rashidov. Any other speeches? Mrs. Krasteva, come in for a statement. Mr. Nedyalkov, let's take turns.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, Mrs. Joteva! It is known and proven that we here in our territory know very much about two things, even three. It's clear that we all know about football, we all know about politics, we all know about media. To actually remind today what the debate is about, we are looking at the CEM report. Compared to a Law on Radio and Television, which is quite outdated, which is already 22 years old, which Law does not reflect both the technical and moral realities of today and, respectively, the regulator SEM, which implements the Law on what lawmakers have given him. The big topic is that we have a need as a society of new quality media legislation and media regulation. My personal opinion is that we should not work on patches and amendments to the current law, but we should work on adopting an entirely new one. But that's not the point today. We will support the CEM report because it really reflects the potential given by the capacity they have, as it is, but that does not mean that their work is satisfactory, for example, I will say, in a very sensitive topic in our view, this is the topic of fighting hate language, which we somehow forgot, including you, colleagues from the CEM. This topic we have forgotten, driven by scandals, in everyday life, in pandemic, in elections, in everything else, and the topic of hate speech is the one that should make us particularly sensitive because the language of hate that flows from the media constitutes a problem of the future of our country, as this is the upbringing of our children. Otherwise, while I was listening to the debate, I was left with the unpleasant feeling that some colleagues are seeing the possibility of a media ministry, and I will tell you from now on there is no chance, colleagues, that there is a press ministry, because even the temptation to change to an authority such regulation as goes to a ministry means a defect of democracy and I will remind you that freedom of speech is strengthened in the Constitution and not in the Law on television and radio. As for the other particularly difficult problem of operation, not only of the media, again of our entire society, namely the false news, I told the Commission, we laughed then that whoever found the cure for the fake news would receive the Nobel Peace Prize. I am not that naive to think that these Nobel laureates are here in this room, but what we need to do is really change the legislation so that we can give an instrument with which we can oppose everyone as a society of this extremely unpleasant phenomenon, which also corrupts democracy. I graduated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u51	Thank you, dear Mrs. Krasteva. - What's the line? Line, Mr. Kutev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u52	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Mrs. Krasteva, I will start by saying that freedom of speech is indeed enshrined in the Constitution, which did not prevent a party colleague of yours from saying very recently that it can wait until the coronavirus is over, which, in my opinion, was an interesting precedent. But that's not why I'm taking your line, but rather, I want to talk to you about whether it's possible to do what you're saying about changing the media environment, making it big and full. I think it cannot, because the interaction between political bodies and media in a democratic environment is very thin matter. It, unfortunately, has many dimensions, and if you go to make partial changes, but purposefully, maybe, I'm not convinced, but maybe there's some chance that something real will change. There is no force, in my opinion, in Bulgaria, to make a complete change in media legislation, for the simple reason that it will come under such pressure.. public and media, that it cannot pass it, it cannot happen, there is no power that can do it, in my opinion. That is why, in my legislative work, I have been trying to make these changes all along. Yes, a piece, and a little bit, but still in some form of consensus, because small changes can step on reasonable consensus. Once you get to make a complete change in legislation, many interests begin to play, and it practically turns out that the National Assembly, unfortunately, is not strong enough to impose such a decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u53	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. Mrs. Krasteva, would you like a coat?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u54	And as for Mr. Kutev, to the quote, I don't know how to define it, about which freedom can be ignored, which I think you refer to Mr. Tsonev in the Panorama. Because what you've done is subtract from context and, by the way, it's visually indicative of how false news can be produced. Mr. Tsonev did not say that freedom of speech can be excluded from freedom. Let's be straight and collegiate. In this room, it suits us to talk as much as we can, fair and honest, otherwise it's your view. I believe that the responsibility to find agreement on such a sensitive subject as media, and to go to a new law belongs to all of us. Because a priori to fear that there will be pressure if we decide to make modern, new legislation in this sector that is developing so intensely, even if only new technologies are watching that allow everyone to produce media content themselves, and our law is from the last century, in fact, we are not afraid of such a debate, for you I do not know. [[Single applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u55	Thank you, dear Mrs. Krasteva. To speak, Mr. Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u56	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! As one Bulgarian poet once said: "Freedom is like bread, it mixes every day, cooks and eats. " It is different from the freedom of expression, it is different from the term "freedom." Some think that limiting freedom of speech should be a restriction of freedom. As someone who has this experience, in the past because of my journalistic appearance, I was temporarily placed with a restriction of freedom, I can tell you that our democratic history has gone through various stages of evaluating these concepts. But to get back to the subject. We're looking at the Father today. I want to look at it from the perspective of us as people representing the legislative authority. It was mentioned in the statements that this law was too outdated and that it needed to be rejected and adopted a new law for which there was already 80% readiness. That's where I'm afraid. I fear that as much as this Law on Radio and Television has become obsolete, it has proved to be a very good and balanced law. A balanced law that determines the place of national, public media, such as Bulgarian National Radio and Bulgarian National Television, and what the function and role of the Council for Electronic Media should be. As much as we deny this law, we must admit to our predecessors that they have created a balance between the three bodies. Its content is also found in this report if we read between the lines. What has been written there, which has been criticised by my colleagues from the Left, is correct that the Council for Electronic Media works imprecisely, especially in several areas on the control of national media service providers, BNR and BNT, especially when choosing their management. And when choosing a guide, the responsibility lies with the CEM. That is why this independent body has been created, which has a complex system of its composition. I would like to say that with their actions, although they were unfettered, they were even sometimes harmful, the SEM could not break the feeling in the audience that the freest media in Bulgaria are the Bulgarian National Radio and Bulgarian National Television. I would like to conclude that we have hard work to do if we take responsibility for new regulation. This new regulation is too dangerous. Because the more we try to regulate the area of the media, the more mistakes can be made and we can go even further back to this criterion - freedom of speech. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u57	Thank you, dear Mr Nedyalkov. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u58	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr Nedyalkov, in the end you did not say: the BSP group will not support the Board of Electronic Media Review. Everyone has a right to an opinion. Ours is because of the arguments put forward so far. However, the Electronic Media Council was created to regulate the processes so as to ensure both freedom of expression and the development of the media environment. Do we have anything of both that's present? Do we have a developed media environment? Where are we developing it? Who developed it? Do we have a guaranteed freedom of expression that we talked about? We don't! That's why we're against it. The report.. functions, actions, the CEM, what law we will do. These are other topics. The question is now. It's for last year's report. We have to accept it now or reject it. That's what I'm talking about. Neither do we have freedom of expression in Bulgaria, we all agree on certain topics, nor do we have the development of the media environment. Or if we have it, how we develop it is controversial because we know how the government develops it. And who, we can talk about another debate. We don't mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u59	Thank you, dear Mr. Chenchev. Any other lines? I can't see. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Nedyalkov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u60	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Chenchev, yes, of course we will not support this report, because it does not give the prerequisites to which the legislative authority can step up to take the next action until the development of the Law on which it is working. We cannot draw such conclusions from the Father to ensure exactly what the development of the media environment should be, and as Mrs. Krasteva said, which already the media environment is too complicated after every single person in our society is considered media. Can this be regulated? Can we move on to such formal things as the definition of the term "media service provider" from now on? Does he not become too redundant in this very intense environment of public relations that we have been witnessing lately? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u61	Thank you, dear Mr Nedyalkov. The word is Mr. Ebatine from the DPS. To inform the group of BSP about Bulgaria that she has seven seconds left.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u62	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Many important things are discussed today, which are at the root of the big problems in Bulgarian society. Electronic media nowadays represent almost 100% of the information that every citizen receives. In this sense, electronic media are a field where a lot of battles are heated. It is natural when electronic media are precisely such a field, in this field to grow the most passions. It is difficult to find a formula and difficult to find the Council for Electronic Media can be a regulating body from the point of view that there is the greatest interest. How can it happen when in their large majority the electronic media have political biases, their peak is guided by certain political interests and when the Bulgarian Parliament is a model for division? In what way electronic media in society, when presenting in an even more interesting version the Bulgarian society, where there is no brake, for example, here each of us has something that prevents him from going to certain extremes, there, however, this deterrent moment is not... You see how difficult it is when the Bulgarian political model itself is not the model it should be, let alone those representing the electronic space. Everyone is looking to adapt in some way, looking for a pattern, looking for the formula for impact. So it will be very difficult to find this mechanism. Moreover, it will not have a working mechanism on a political level. Because at a political level we cannot understand one another are the interests of the government, others are the interests of the opposition. So electronic space, media space is a mirror model, but in a broader form of the political model of the country. That's a very difficult question. The big issue facing the Council for Electronic Media is, in fact, a problem facing the political environment in the country. We as politicians need to find this model, get out and look for this formula. However, I propose that, since in the soil of the Bulgarian society there is a pattern of false news and they are quoted, perceived by Bulgarian citizens, especially the political false news that affects the political space, political parties, representatives of political parties, it is a symptom, even if people understand that it is fake news, they like it and they talk about it, they spread it. This means, colleagues, that there is a problem between the political communication of parties with society. That is, we need to find the formula on a political level to solve this problem. From then on, things will start to get back to normal. And one more thing. In a society that has values, values related to culture, values related to knowledge, in a society that has such values, no false news can thrive. This means that we, as a political body, a parliamentary political body, should look for the problem, to solve it, to change society, to make society more educated, to turn to the educational system, to invest in the educational system and when a society is educated and there are healthy cultural values at stake there cannot be false news. I believe that the will of the entire parliamentary space must be shared in order to change society to a society where false news cannot thrive. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u63	Thank you, Mr. Ebatine. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u64	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We of the Volya parliamentary group will abstain because everything we have heard so far, as well as the report itself, is a formality that happens every year in this Chamber. I'm sure you all know the mass opinion of the CEM. People expect much more from a body that is supported by our taxes. The problems in our media environment are also known.. an ocean of false news, visible dependence of some media on behind-the-scenes interests, falling professional level. This kind of SEM is powerless to do anything. That is why our position is, in principle, a radical reform in the way the SEM exists and works. That is also the reason, as I said earlier, for us to abstain from the Report. Thank you. [[Single applause by WOLLYA "Bulgarian Rhodolists."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u65	Thank you, dear Mrs. Georgieva. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. Importers, if they wish? No. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. Before that, I'll read Project! DECISION on the activity report of the Council for Electronic Media for the period 1 January 2019 - 31 December 2019 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. 39, para. 1 of the Law on Radio and Television HAS DECIDED Adopts the report on the activities of the Council for Electronic Media for the period 1 January 2019. " 31 December 2019" Vote 119 MPs: 86, against 27, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: REPORT ON THE WORK OF THE BULGARIAN TELEGRAPHIC AGENCY FOR 2019 Importer is the Director-General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency. We begin with the opinion of the Committee on Culture and Media. You're welcome to introduce him.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u66	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I propose clearance procedure. On the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please allow Mr. Borislav Chalakov to be admitted to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u67	Requesting clearance procedure. Vote 95 MPs: for 93, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please invite Mr. Chalakoff. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, let me ask you, there's been a lot of noise in this room, and we're starting work on the next item. I'd like to ask you to lower your decibels.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u68	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'll introduce: "COMMODITY" of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Activity Report of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, including a financial statement for 2019, No 004-00-9, submitted by the Director-General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency on 13 May 2020. At a regular meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media, held on 28 May 2020, the report on the activities of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, including a financial report for 2019, No 004-00-9, submitted by the Director-General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency on 13 May 2020. The meeting was attended by the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency: Maksim Minchev General Director, Borislav Chalakov Deputy Director General, Dancho Antonov Financial Director, and Joana Petrova Chief Accountant. The activity report of the Agency was presented by Mr. Maxim Minchev and submitted as required by Article. 16 of the Law on the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency. In the past 2019 four main highlights of the work of BTA are highlighted as a national independent information institute of Bulgaria. The first is the holding of the VI World Congress of Information Agencies in Sofia from 13 to 16 June 2019. The second is the elections for municipal councilors and mayors on 27 October 2019. The third is the opening of the new multimedia information and cultural center of BTA, whose main goal is to become a new cultural point of Sofia and an attractive place for journalism and culture. The fourth is the XV World Meeting of Bulgarian Media in the Albanian capital Tirana from 22 to 25 November under the motto "Media" and national priorities. The annual report shall contain information on the activities of the Agency, the role of the media market, international contacts, financial situation, the functioning of the National Press Club and the network of regional press clubs, the multimedia cultural information centre. The Bulgarian telegraph agency distributes nearly 1000 information daily and between 2000 and 3000 photos from the country and the world. In Bulgaria the Agency has 34 state correspondents in all major district centres. The Agency continues to participate in the work of the Association of European Information Agencies, the Association of Balkan Information Agencies and the Associations of Information Agencies from the Black Sea Region. In relation to the financial situation of BTA, it is noted that a budget of 7 million was formed in 2019. 407 thousand. BGN, of which the transfer from the state budget is 5 million. 708 thousand. lv. and realised own revenue of 1 million 699 thousand. lv. For the same period, costs of 7 million have been incurred. 516 thousand. lv. The Agency's own revenue has decreased by approximately 5% compared to 2018, which has become a trend in recent years. In this respect, the BTA proposes that its financing be organised in a way that does not imply the realization of own revenues. The report for another year brings out the two most serious problems for BTA, which apply to many agencies around the world: the rude, uncontrolled use of information by the National Agency, which affects its financial revenues and the correct citation of the source of information for clients with a signed partnership contract, which damages the authority and scale of the Agency. After the discussion the MPs from the Culture and Media Committee unanimously proposed to the National Assembly to accept the Report on the activities of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, including the financial statement for 2019, No 004-0-9, submitted by the Director General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency on 13 May 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u69	Thank you, dear Mrs. Milkova. If you want to present the decision, I don't have to read it afterwards.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u70	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will present the following: Project! DECISION on the activity report of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, including a financial statement for 2019 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 3 and 4 of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency Act HAS DECIDED Adopts the report on the activities of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, including a financial statement for 2019
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Milkova. We are going to debate. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We at BSP will accept the report. We have always said from this tribune, when the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency in this National Assembly, within this Parliament, has made a report, and we have emphasized on our praises regarding the fact that BTA is a stogger, if I may say so by this cliché, that there is no false news with them that they are an oasis so called, in this media environment in which we are placed. Another point is that their problem with the fact that there is incorrect use of information provided by BTA means whether the media environment in Bulgaria is correct to the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency. However, this issue may have more to do with the previous CEM report, which has become such a long and comprehensive debate. However, I will not make criticisms other than praises, but I will rather make two recommendations to the management of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, in the case of its Deputy Director-General, Mr. Minchev is absent. My recommendations come down to this. First of all, the media meeting that was mentioned in Albanian capital Tirana between 22 and 25 November, which was held. I attended it and was impressed that the invited moderators had, to put it mildly, a political bias, and this political bias was in the same direction. Perhaps for subsequent such events the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency should adjust its moderators, and this is what I ask to be accepted as a recommendation. I would not allow myself to advise them or, in this case, I do not think it is quite a matter of criticism, but if they listened to this recommendation, it would be good, because such were the comments of other colleagues of mine and, of course, media representatives who attended this meeting in Tirana. My second recommendation is related to similar events, similar initiatives by the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, which are otherwise commendable. By the way, this media meeting is traditional. It was attended by Bulgarian presidents and another leadership of the Bulgarian state over the years. But in view of the situation in which our country is located, and not only Europe, and the world, with regard to the infection with the coronavirus, perhaps one such subsequent media meeting, which is based as an international one, and believe me, it is true, there is respect for this initiative by the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency from other countries, should be held remotely. Of course, and given that funds will be optimized, there will also be saving funds for the coronavirus. These are my two references. Otherwise, the fact that until now the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency has managed financially is commendable. In spite, if I may say so, to other institutions, you did not want additional funds, but you see that this 5% negative growth in the revenues of the Telegraph Agency is worrying because it is pointed out in the report that it may become a trend and it would not be bad to think about how to help the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency. Mr. Chairman, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u73	Thank you, dear Mr. Chenchev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. Let's close the debate then and move on to the vote. Please, a procedure for voting on the project presented by Mrs. Milkova. I'll wait long enough. I ask the Quaestors to invite the MPs. I think that colleagues did not expect us to conclude the discussions on this point so quickly. I don't think this report is that controversial, but still. They voted 105 MPs: for 105, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. We're done with that, too. The last item of today's agenda remains: ANNUAL REPORT OF THE COMMISSION ON THE PROTECTION OF PERSONAL DATA ON THE ACTION IN 2019 Importer "The Commission for the Protection of Personal Data. Opinion of the Committee on Homeland Security and Public Order. Welcome, Mr. Stoyanov, to present it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u74	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Request for a tolerance procedure on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to be admitted to the Chamber Mr. Ventsislav Karadzhov, Chairman of the Commission for Personal Data Protection, and Mrs. Desislava Toshkova, Secretary of the Commission for Personal Data Protection.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u75	Thank you, Mr. Stoyanov. Please vote for admission. They voted 86 MPs: 83 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please invite Mr. Karadzhov and Mrs. Toshkova. Mr. Stoyanov, you may proceed with your opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "COMMODITY" on the Annual Activity Report of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data for 2019, No 020-00-9, submitted by the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data on 31 March 2020. At its regular meeting on 3 June 2020, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined the Annual Activity Report of the Personal Data Protection Commission for 2019, No 020-00-9, submitted by the Personal Data Protection Commission on 31 March 2020. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Commission for Personal Data Protection Ventsislav Karadjov, President of the Commission, and Desislava Toshkova. The report was presented by Ventsislav Karadzhov, who noted that 2019 is characterized by three significant challenges to the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data, which she is successfully dealing with. First, updating the legal and regulatory legal framework in the area of personal data protection in the Republic of Bulgaria, secondly, a change in the focus of control activities and, thirdly, the continuation of the practical application of the new legal framework in the field of personal data protection, in particular Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016. (Regulation) and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (Regulation (EU) 2016/689. During the reporting period, an update of the Personal Data Protection Act and the adoption of new Rules of Procedure of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data and its Administration were carried out. In order to raise public awareness of key issues of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, the initiative of the previous year on the publication of the Commission's website for the protection of personal data on explanatory materials and recommendations on the application of the A specific subdivision shall be maintained on the institution's website for the Committee, which publishes general information about it and establishes a reference to its official website, where all publicly available information on its activity is available. In order to strengthen cooperation with the Ministry of Interior with regard to the implementation of the requirements of Directive (EU) 2016/680 in 2019, actions have been initiated in the preparation of checks to be carried out in 2020 by the Europol, Eurodac and Interpol National Unit. In relation to the requirements of the Republic of Bulgaria for full Schengen accession and the Visa Information System of the European Union in the process of carrying out the Schengen Information System in the National Office of SIRENE to the Directorate of International Operational Cooperation and the Ministry of Interior and Consular Services in embassies of the Republic of Bulgaria. During the reporting period, the implementation of the Personal Data Protection Development Strategy continues in the field of personal data protection, adopted by the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data in 2017. One of the powers of the Commission for the protection of personal data as part of the exercise of a personal data protection control activity is the handling of complaints submitted by natural persons. During the reporting period, the Commission has addressed more than 1600 complaints. There is a drastic increase in the number of complaints received compared to those lodged in 2018. The highest share of complaints filed against the state authorities is 784; they follow the complaints for video surveillance, telecommunications, media, banks and credit institutions, political entities, employment and insurance services, etc. The amount of property penalties and fines imposed during the accounting year is more than 1 million. lv. The collected amounts for the personal data protection decisions of the Commission are BGN 211 929.07. As a result of the adoption and operation of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, citizens and controllers of personal data are actively seeking assistance in clarifying the application of the new legal framework, with more than 600 requests made to the Commission for the protection of personal data. As a result of the Commission's control activities, 949 investigations were carried out in 2019, of which 156 checks and 793 signals. During the same period, 955 investigations were closed, including appointments and not completed in 2018, of which 134 checks and 821 alerts. As a result of the investigations, 134 valid acts were drawn up, 3 warnings were made, 8 official warnings were issued, 11 orders were issued to the ALD to comply with processing operations. 6 acts for the identification of an administrative infringement have been drawn up and 4 criminal decrees have been issued for the detected infringements of the rules on the protection of personal data. The amount of penalties imposed by the Personal Data Protection Commission for 2019 amounts to BGN 6 106 000. The amounts collected in 2019 under the decisions of the CDC are 6 166, 99 BGN, such as BGN 5 166,99. They were collected by the National Revenue Agency. In carrying out its obligations under the Law on Electronic Communications concerning retention and access to traffic data, the Commission shall draw up aggregated statistical information. The total number of requests for access to traffic data submitted to the Commission as a supervisory authority in 2019 amounts to 56 943. During the reporting period the representatives of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data actively interact with the Bulgarian institutions. A number of workshops and discussions with state authorities and NGOs are held during the year. As a personal data protection supervisory authority in the Republic of Bulgaria, the Personal Data Protection Commission is responsible for conducting a broad explanatory campaign and in an accessible language to promote personal data reform in the European Union and the legal framework which creates the General Data Protection Regulation. Members of the National Assembly Ivan Ivanov and Valentin Radev took part in the debates. As a result of the discussion, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 17 votes for abstention and non-discrimination, supported the submitted Annual Report on the activities of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data for 2019, No 020"9 submitted by the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data on 31 March 2020, and proposed to the National Assembly the following: Project! ? RESPONSIBILITY? adopting the Annual Activity Report of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data for 2019 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 7, para. 6 of the Personal Data Protection Act HAS DECIDED Adopts the Annual Activity Report of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data for 2019
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-11.u77	Thank you. One correction................................................................................................. It's a technical mistake, not yours. I'm saying this for the record. I'm opening the debate. Colleagues, you have a say in this. I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the submitted draft decision adopting the Annual Activity Report of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data for 2019. Vote 99 MPs: for 98, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. That's what we've run out of agenda for today. I will present two announcements of parliamentary control: The first is in connection with the questions: The Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev, due to participation in a video conference of the Council of the European Union on Employment, Social Policy, Health and Consumer Affairs, is prevented from taking part in the parliamentary control on 12 June 2020, for which a meeting is scheduled on questions by the National Representatives Georgi Yordanov, Georgi Mihailov, Ilian Timchev, Desislav Taskov, Valentina Naydenova, Ivan Ibrishimov and Anna Slavova on a strategy for improving the working conditions and financial compensation for the Bulgarian medics. In accordance with the provision of art. 105, para. Second sentence, third of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, the questions of inquiry to be held in the presence of the respective minister, the President of the National Assembly redirects the debates on this inquiry addressed to Minister Kiril Ananiev for the next parliamentary control meeting. Parliamentary control announcements on Friday 12 June 2020: - Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Mariana Nikolova will answer one question from the MP Dzhevdet Chakarov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva will answer two questions from the MPs Krum Zarkov and Alexander Paunov; and Georgi Gokov, and one question from the MP Krum Zarkov; - Culture Minister Boyl Banov will answer three questions from the MPs Anastas Popdimitrov, Nona Yotova and Alexander Simov.. two questions; and Georgi Gokov, Nona Yotova, Alexander Simov and Anastas Popdimitrov; - Minister of Environment and Waters Emil Dimitrov will answer four questions from the MPs Valeri Zablyanov, Evdokiya Asenova, Lyubomir Bonev, Ivan Ibrishimov and Atanas Kostadinov; Polina Tsankova-Hristova, Desislava Todorova and Krasimir Yankov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Desislava Taneva will answer 10 questions from the MPs Krastina Taskova; Svetla Bachvarova, Chavdar Velinov and Vassil Antonov; Svetla Bachvarova and Veska Nencheva; Alexander Sabanov; two questions; Kristian Vivgenin; Svetla Bachvarova and Nikolay Penev; Svetla Bachvarova and Dora Yankova; and Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov will answer a question from the National Representative Dora Yankova; - Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will answer one question from the MPs Vassil Antonov and Chavdar Velinov; - Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev will answer one question from the MPs Vassil Antonov, Kolyo Milev, Hristo Prodanov and Mikhail Hristov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova will answer one question from the National Representative Manol Genov; - Minister of Justice Danail Kirilov will answer a question from the MP Krum Zarkov; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will answer two questions from the MPs Teodora Halacheva; and Stoyan Bozhinov; and a question from the MP Ivo Hristov. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev to two questions from the MPs Ivo Hristov; and Dora Yankova; - the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov at a request from the MPs Rumen Gechev and Georgi Svilenski; and to a question from the MPs Alexander Paunov and Anton Kutev; - Minister of the Interior Mladen Marinov of a question by the MP Krum Zarkov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova; - the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova to a question from the MPs Ivan Chenchev and Dimitar Danchev. Due to the absence of the MP Dean Stanchev for respectable reasons, his question is postponed to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova. Due to the use of paid annual leave in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva will not participate. Due to the use of sick leave, the Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. Due to participation in a video conference of the Council for the European Union on Employment, Social Policy, Health and Consumer Affairs The next regular plenary session shall be from 9:00 on 12 June 2020 under the adopted Work Programme. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
