ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Thanks to everyone who's in the gym today. Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 78, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria I order: I am calling an extraordinary plenary session of the Forty-fourth National Assembly on 23 March 2020, Monday, at 1300 on the following agenda: On 13 March 2020, adopted by the National Assembly on 20 March 2020, returned for a new discussion with Decree No 70 of 22 March 2020 of the President of the Republic under art. 101 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Dear Mrs. Alexandrova, if you'd like to introduce us to the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! This Regulation on Decree No 70 of 22 March 2020 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, received on 22 March 2020, on the return for a new discussion of the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, adopted by the National Assembly on 20 March 2020, and the reasons to the Decree At its meeting held on 23 March 2020, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed Decree No 70 of 22 March 2020 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, received on 22 March 2020, on a return for a new discussion of the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, adopted by the National Assembly on 20 March 2020, and the reasons for the Decree. The meeting was attended by Mr. Plamen Uzunov, Secretary for Legal Affairs and Anti-Corruption of the President, Mr. Danail Kirilov, Minister of Justice, and Mrs. Krasimira Filipova, Deputy Prosecutor General. The President of the Committee on Legal Affairs Anna Alexandrova reported the President's statement and the reasons for it. On the basis of art. 101, para. 1 of the Constitution, the President returns to the National Assembly the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, adopted by the National Assembly on 20 March 2020, contesting § 3, item 3. 2 (a) and § 12a of the Transitional and Final Provisions. At the beginning of the motives, the President stated that he shares the need for rapid adoption of legislative amendments in a state of emergency to regulate institutions' activities in critical situations and to preserve citizens' rights. Notes that for the short periods within which the Law was drawn up and adopted, it covered diverse public relations and introduced many measures in different areas; In his motives, the President states that he cannot overlook the concerns about freedom of speech relating to the amendments to § 3, item 3. Article 2 (a) and (b) of this Agreement shall apply mutatis mutandis from the date of entry into force of this Agreement and from the date of entry into force of this Agreement. 326, para. 1 of the Criminal Code, which is added as a composite act the transmission of false information about the spread of contagious disease. The President believes that this text directly affects the freedom of expression and the dissemination of information and identifies relevant international standards in the field of human rights. The amendment to art. 326, para. 1 of the Penal Code is defined as not complying with the human rights standards. The President stresses that there is no specific criterion for determining one information as an unbelief and does not take into account that the nature and characteristics of the coronavirus and its spread are still the subject of scientific discussion. The President's amendment to the Penal Code violates the requirement for the temporary nature of exceptional measures and restrictions of fundamental rights, as it will not apply only for the period of emergency. The President also points out in his reasoning to the Decree that consumer protection and measures are necessary in this direction, but notes that § 12a, p. 1 is not given a legal definition of the concept of unreasonably high prices. There is also no legal basis to distinguish unjustified high prices at a time when no emergency situation has been declared and where such a situation has been declared. There is also no distinction with regard to goods and services whose prices should not be unduly high. The President believes that such an approach creates legal uncertainty, allows subjectivity of the assessment of the control bodies and creates prerequisites for administrative arbitrariness. According to the President, the provisions of art. 177a and 177b in the Consumer Protection Act imperatively oblige all business operators to provide the population with the goods and services offered by them at prices equal to the average prices of the goods and services offered by them in the last three months. A threshold is not introduced but provides for fixing all prices in the economy, which is disproportionate to the objectives of the Law on the Avoidance of Unreasonably High Prices, creating a risk that goods which have increased on international markets, including life-saving medicines, should not be imported into Bulgaria if fixed prices are lower than import costs. The envisaged penalty of 5 percent of the turnover for the previous year creates prerequisites for a number of traders to suspend a preventive part of their activities in order not to put themselves at risk of imposing a penalty which could lead to bankruptcy in a period of emergency and a sharply deteriorated economic environment. In conclusion, the President points out that the provisions of § 12a, t. 2 and 3 violate the rules on the free movement of goods and services within the European Union. During the discussion spoke the MPs Krum Zarkov, Krasimir Tsipov and Yordan Tsonev. On behalf of the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria "Krum Zarkov" pointed out that the veto is a chance to review the controversial texts and compensate for the fast legislation. He said that the Bulgarian BSP will support the veto of the President. It underlined that in terms of speculation, it should not be allowed for anyone to make easy money during the emergency situation, preparing and submitting more precise texts to special laws to be considered by the competent committees in the National Assembly. Calls on the relevant associations to monitor price movements and not to allow them to increase during the emergency situation. On behalf of the political party's parliamentary group GERB Krasimir Tzipov said GERB will support the veto and will vote against the adoption of the Law. Noteed that during the discussions in the committee responsible for the second vote, the proposal for a change to the Consumer Protection Act submitted by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs was rejected on grounds that the provisions are unclear and impractical and will not achieve the expected results. Despite the fact that the proposal was initially rejected, it has been respoken and adopted in plenary with a view to reaching consensus. Krasimir Tzipov pointed out that there have been numerous signals of problems in the implementation of the regulations and that no precise wording can be made at the time of the texts, the parliamentary group of GERB will support the dropping of § 12a. With regard to the President's reasons for not having a specific criterion for determining one information as an untrue one in art. 326, para. 1 of the Criminal Code Krasimir Tsipov stressed that the notion of false information is not new for Bulgarian criminal law because it exists in the compositions of the crimes under art. Art. 260c. 353a of the Penal Code and so far no problems have arisen in implementation. Mr. Yordan Tsonev said that the group would support the veto and present its arguments in the plenary. In the course of the discussion, the members of the Commission agreed that the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by the National Assembly Decision of 13 March 2020, adopted by the National Assembly on 20 March 2020, should not be re-adopted; the contested paragraphs: § 3, p. 2 (a) and § 12a of the Transitional and Final Provisions to take account of the President's motives and to reflect the relevant legal technical changes in the related texts. After the discussion and vote, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 19 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I. Do not re-accept the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, adopted by the National Assembly on 20 March 2020, and discuss the contested provisions. II. The contested provisions and the related texts shall be voted on as follows: 1. In § 3, t. 2 2. Paragraph 12a is to be rejected. 3. Paragraph 51 shall become § 52 and shall be amended as follows: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The law shall enter into force as of 13 March 2020, with the exception of art. 5, § 3, § 12, § 25? 31, § 41, § 49 and § 51, which shall enter into force from the day of the promulgation of the law in the Official Journal of the European Union, and shall apply until the emergency situation is abolished. 4. Paragraph 50a shall be renumbered as § 51.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u3	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. You're welcome to present us with the motives.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u4	Thank you, Madam President. I'm sorry. I'm on the return to the National Assembly for a new discussion on provisions of the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by the National Assembly Decision of 13 March 2020, adopted by the Forty-fourth National Assembly on 20 March 2020. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I share the need for rapid adoption of legislative amendments in a state of emergency to regulate the institutions' activities in critical situations and to preserve citizens' rights. I have called for a comprehensive approach to overcome legal deficits, especially under conditions which require the appropriate efforts of all institutions. I am convinced that the efforts should be aimed not only at the urgent measures and actions to prevent the spread of the coronavirus, but also at the care that the legislator makes to preserve the potential of the Bulgarian nation. The criteria for this are the threat proportional restrictions in the exercise of the rights of citizens and their organisations, as well as the reasonable conditions created to maintain the economy ready to deal with the unclear challenges. For the short periods during which the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by the National Assembly Decision of 13 March 2020, was drawn up and adopted, it was able to cover diverse public relations, to focus on multiple measures in a different spectrum, to amend a number of other laws. Some of the measures, however, permanently change the arrangement into other laws and will be applied not only in the context of a state of emergency but also after its cancellation. 1. I cannot ignore the concerns about freedom of speech relating to the amendments to the Penal Code contained in § 3, item 3. 2, b. The law was adopted. Standing by high standards for the protection of citizens' fundamental rights, even in times of crisis, is an invariable condition of the democratic and the rule of law, as is our country. With the amendment of art. 326, para. 1 of the Criminal Code is added as a composite act the transmission of false information about the spread of contagious disease. This text directly affects the freedom of expression and the dissemination of information, which requires certain clarification from the perspective of international standards on human rights in a state of emergency. The situational arrangements of the state of emergency answer the questions......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The arrangement of emergency measures should be consistent with the international treaties to which the Republic of Bulgaria is a country. The International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, in the case of the Court of Justice in Strasbourg and a number of relevant international documents, such as Syracuse's principles concerning the limitation and derogation provisions in the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the Paris minimum standards on human rights in an emergency situation, are relevant rules and standards for the declaration of emergency. The Venice Commission for Democracy by Law indicates that exceptional measures and restrictions of rights can only be applied temporarily and strictly within the period during which the emergency situation is in operation. The Resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe 1659 (2009) explicitly stresses that freedom of expression and the publication of information should never be interpreted as a threat to national security except in cases explicitly and clearly defined in law. Restrictions must be necessary in a democratic society in order to protect legitimate national security interests and be proportionate to the danger to which emergency measures are needed. The restrictions must be clearly and irreconcilably formulated and should not impede citizens' access to independent media. The Council of Europe Committee of Ministers has adopted Guidelines. This document explicitly states that countries should not use a vague and overly common language and terminology when setting limits on the freedom of expression and the dissemination of information during emergencies. An important emphasis placed in these documents is the need for criminal and administrative sanctions for officials who distribute false and misleading information. In view of the requirements arising from the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the European Convention on Human Rights, the amendment adopted by the National Assembly in art. 326, para. 1 of the Penal Code should be defined as not complying with the human rights standards. The text "unbelievable information on the spread of contagious disease" is generally and indistinctly formulated. There is no specific criterion for determining one information as an untrue one. It does not take into account that the essence and peculiarities of the coronavirus and its spread are still the subject of scientific discussion. The expert and public understanding of the COVID 19 pandemic is developing dynamically and what until yesterday was considered true can be denied by research today or tomorrow. Examples of recent weeks have shown a change in the understanding of the pandemic, and does this mean that untrue information has been distributed? No, but from the perspective of the new amendment to the Penal Code, if this were to happen now, it would be punishable, which is unacceptable. This vague and general wording gives wide discretion rights to the law enforcement authorities, which will create the so-called freezing effect on freedom of expression and dissemination of information. Experts, journalists, citizens under the fear of criminal responsibility for an act that is vaguely formulated in the Law will impose self-censorship. The doors are wide open for intimidation and harassment by the authorities. The amendment in question in the Criminal Code violates the requirement for a strict temporary nature of the exceptional measures and the limitations of fundamental rights in the text voted does not state that this restriction applies only to the period of the emergency situation, as explicitly stated in other provisions of the adopted law on the state of emergency, which amend other laws. Freedom of expression and information are fundamental rights in a democratic society and in the rule of law. As a fundamental right, freedom to express opinions is proclaimed as in art. 39, para. 1 of the Constitution, as well as in art. 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, art. 10, para. 1 of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and Art. 11 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. As the Constitutional Court emphasised in its Interpretation Decision No 7 of 1996, expression of opinion is an expression of freedom of conviction and is, above all, an individual right to the person the Constitution provides to everyone. Everyone has the right to search, receive and distribute information. It is necessary to conclude that the legislative approach adopted with the inclusion of the unclear Criminal Chamber is incorrect information on the spread of contagious disease and a substantial increase of the sanction does not achieve the measures and actions of the emergency situation as announced by the National Assembly Decision of 13 March 2020. I expect the National Assembly to hold a new discussion and clarification, which is particularly important in this case, in order to dispel the doubts that the extraordinary legislation is used as a façade to promote unacceptable measures that erosion the trust of Bulgarian citizens in European values. 2. S. 1 of § 12a of the adopted law is created a new item. 9 of art. 1, para. 2 of the Law on Consumer Protection, adding to the objectives of the law the right to protection against unjustified high prices in times of emergency and disasters. I share the need for such protection and believe that such measures should exist, but in its adopted form the Law does not give a legal definition of the concept of unreasonably high prices. There is also no legal basis to distinguish unjustified high prices at a time when no emergency situation has been declared and when one has been declared. There is also no distinction with regard to goods and services whose prices should not be unduly high. Such an approach creates legal uncertainty for debtors, allows subjectivity of the assessment of control bodies and creates prerequisites for administrative arbitrariness. S. 2 of § 12a of the adopted law is created a new Chapter 8.......................................................................................................... 177a and 177b in the Consumer Protection Act. Alinea 1 in art. 177b imperatively obliges all businesses to provide the public with the goods and services offered by them at prices equal to the average prices of the goods and services offered by them in the last three months before the emergency or disaster occurred within the meaning of the Law on the Protection of Disasters. The law does not take into account that individual operators have and have had in that 3-month reference period their own commercial, pricing and marketing policy, as well as different relationships with their trading partners. A number of companies registered in Bulgaria are subsidiaries or part of an economic group with parent companies based in another Member State and implement a comprehensive strategy for the realization of the goods or services they provide within the Union. In the adopted editorial article. 177b, para. 1 does not introduce a threshold but provides for fixing all prices in the economy. This is disproportionate to the objectives of the law to avoid unjustified high prices. The inability of prices to react to changes in international markets, production costs and seasonal factors may lead to a deficit of a number of goods. There is a risk that goods that have increased on international markets, including life-saving medicines, should not be imported into Bulgaria at all if fixed prices here are lower than import costs. This will limit the access of households to a number of essential goods that are not produced in Bulgaria. This also violates the rules on the free movement of goods within the Single European Market. The obligations introduced by art. 177b, are secured with a penalty of 5% of the turnover for the previous year (new Article 225f). The amount of such penalties creates prerequisites for a number of traders to suspend a preventive part of their activities in order not to put them at risk of imposing sanctions, the payment of which may lead to bankruptcy, especially in a period of emergency, a sharply deteriorated economic environment and the lack of incentives in place to overcome the economic consequences of the pandemic. The freedom of business is also proclaimed in art. 16 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. According to the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the right to a free economic initiative includes freedom of negotiation and freedom of competition. It may be restricted to respect for the principle of proportionality and only to the extent that restrictions are necessary and if they actually meet Union-accepted objectives of common interest or the need to protect the rights and freedoms of other people. The texts of § 12a, t. 2 and 3 do not correspond to art. 19th para. 1 of the Constitution, which is a basic constitutional beginning and according to which the economy of Bulgaria is based on the free economic initiative. Barriers to the free movement of goods and services within the European Union may arise and concerns about excessive and breach of the principle of proportionality shall not be addressed. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, on the basis of the reasons set out, I exercise my right under art. 101, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria to return for a new discussion the provisions of § 3, item 3. 2, b. Council Decision of 13 March 2020 adopted by the 44th National Assembly on 20 March 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u5	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. Mrs. Daritkova, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u6	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are facing a challenge that will change the world in all its aspects, so with all my responsibility I will call on GERB's parliamentary group to support the veto. I understand your disagreement and that of our supporters, because the demarcation lines and division were drawn precisely by the President. It can't be forgotten that a month ago the Head of State unexpectedly and unmotivatedly took his trust from the government. The memory of ironic remarks and virological reasoning on 3 March is also vivid. The fact is that the proposed text for § 12 belongs to the BSP and we supported it after initial rejection because of the desire to bring the Emergency Act into effect faster. It is also a fact that the president's advisors have proposed dropping only the provision concerning the dissemination of false information about contagious disease. In various formations of the Penal Code there is a formulation of an act for the dissemination of false information and for almost 30 years there has been no noticeable contradiction or difficulty in defining. That's not important right now. We're facing an invisible threat with a clear excitor, a coronavirus. The world will be different tomorrow. Politicians with a long-term vision need to realize that. This is no time for politics, rations and attempts to produce a political dividend from everything. It is not important who will make the most effective statement from the parliamentary tribune. The important thing is what practically happens from our decisions. Maybe we can do better, but we'll save the analysis for the future. Now is the time for immediate and decisive measures and the priority must be the protection of life. We need to be empathetic with everyone, but most of all with those who remain silent in anxious anticipation of the peak of infection with doctors, with nurses, nurses, lab assistants, paramedics, drivers, nurses, volunteers, policemen, social workers, I hope I don't miss anyone. Their mission is to save more lives! Didn't we also swear by all our actions to be guided by the interests of the people?! To overcome our close party ego and to create solutions that create conditions for an exit from the crisis! I call on us to accept this veto so that the Law can become a fact. To demonstrate wisdom and responsibility to set an example. God save Bulgaria! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u7	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? Mr. Simov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u8	Madam President, honourable Members! I am pleased that we have the opportunity today in Parliament to discuss again one of the most controversial texts that we adopted on Friday One of the reasons I read about lifting these penalties and that we should impose such a measure is that false information created panic in society and sharpened the atmosphere and picture of public processes. In my opinion, however, it is the opposite, because the reactions of people whose behaviour I follow and whose reactions I respect, the very information about the introduction of such penalties, the very information about the fact that such a restriction of speech is being made, cause much more panic and public tension than arbitrary, false news about this disease. I noticed that a single sentence, which was given on the weekends, which said: now is not the time to talk about democracy, much more horrifying people, much more affecting society. It had a much bigger effect, in a bad way, on people who were quarantined than any false news, in any fake news site. That is why I would like to repeat again something that I think should be a fundamental rule. "Freedom of speech is a value of values and we cannot put it at risk at any time. Democracy is always the time to talk about democracy. [[Replys from the right.]] Because we cannot risk people's fundamental freedom in such a situation, the main thing we achieved during the transition. I don't even understand your angry reactions, because we all have to agree on that! We cannot put journalists at risk in such a situation, we cannot put people's right to say what they want. And I am proud that my political power has stood to the last by this position and I see the same position reflected in the president's veto. It is always time for freedom of speech, and for this reason I congratulate you for giving up this rule. This is a step forward towards improving the situation in Bulgaria. It is not enough, there will still be many other threats to combat, but I believe that freedom of speech is fundamental. Regardless of pandemics, regardless of dangers, people should have the right to say what they think, journalists should have the right to express themselves, we should all be free, not constantly feeling some threat from a police cube or repression. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u9	Thank you, Mr. Simov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Shopov has a statement, then Mr. Siddy.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u10	Madam President, honourable Members! Today's return of the Law by the President is expected and a re-watching to go smoothly, to pass quietly. This is what should happen during such a disaster that we are in. To this, we also called from "Attack" when we adopted the Emergency Act, as a unit, as a unit. But we should never have one such unity that we find ourselves in smelling like a deal. Well, I guess there is one. This is because the day before was adopted the proposal of Yordan Tsonev and Hamid Hamid, which was absolutely untenable and was a kind of feast during the plague. You were all convinced then, I think, by GERB, that you could not in this Emergency Act, emergency actions, introduce a rule, a text that clears internal for DPS relationships and accounts.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u11	Mr. Shopov, just to let you know that the topic of the veto is quite different.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u12	Yeah, I'll get there. [[Laughter in DPS]] But we have to go through this text. And when I heard about the president's veto, the first thing I thought was this text, of course. It was not canceled, two texts were repealed, in which we from the "Attack" had an adequate and very good proposal, both under the Penal Code and on the issue of speculation, but not formulated as speculation in which the President's comments were related, and we had made a proposal for marginal prices. However, no one paid attention to these two proposals. If these two proposals were adopted as they were formulated, balanced both under the Penal Code and on the subject of marginal prices, it would not have come to today's meeting because the President had nothing to veto for. I invite you to look at these suggestions, look at them, and you will see who can see into them, how good they were and how they balanced the positions of both sides. But time will pass, as always happens, you will be sure of the correctness of our proposals. This happens sometimes after 10 years, but you come to ours. This right here is an episode. I am not talking about any of our eternal proposals that will remain in history and which will become permanent practice. But for the time being, the current moment associated with the coronavirus, these two proposals have been doing a great job. And I will conclude by saying that yesterday at the end of my speech I made the assumption that there was a deal for this proposal by Yordan Tsonev. Yeah, apparently there's a deal, an engagement. This engagement went a long time ago, but yesterday I made sure that it was officially announced between the two interested parties. The DPS is currently in control and what the DPS wants happens. The DPS asked for yesterday's direct, against any rules...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u13	Mr. Shopov, I pay attention to you again, the subject of the vote is quite different!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u14	Both the Rules and the Law and the Constitution should be adopted one situation, one rule that can be interpreted perhaps as geostrategic. Maybe the Arkadas asked for it. But who is the Arkadas to interfere in the internal affairs of Bulgaria? And someone might have told the President, too. Tell you what, fellow general, that's what we need to do to solve other border issues. Maybe. Actually, I'm talking to assumptions, but that's what I'm talking about. You guys think about it. And don't let this engagement become something even scarier - a bipolar model, which we have also long warned that sooner or later will happen in Bulgaria. Because when this system of globalist, neoliberal, fails, the masters of the geostrotheses come to this right up to a major coalition. This is gonna be the scariest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u15	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. Are there lines? I can't see.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u16	Well, he didn't say anything, what lines?!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u17	Any other speeches? Mr. Siddy, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, colleagues! This is just another presidential veto. We can't deny his activity. An excellent attempt to position itself in the crisis is an experience which, hopefully, does not demonstrate our political egocentrism. In times of crisis, of a state of emergency, which has not been since World War II, trying to make political dividends is at least not wise. This is what we have all been doing in the last three days and the politicians in this building and those outside of it. There's no way we can support the veto in his part of fighting fake news. False news is an extraordinary scourge for our modern society. They create panic and tension, manipulate society, dismantle statehood. According to the president, there was no telling what was false information. Well, here's an example: The MEPs went on a 45-day vacation and voted for 5000 BGN. - if you are taking or have taken certain other medicines (see section 2, "Using other medicines"). This example is taken from the profile of the father of a member of the BSP. Or another example is that the water in Sofia is poisoned and not good for drinking. Here is a third example: that dozens of planes are landing at Bezmer Airport a day filled with migrants from Germany, which the government will settle in Strandja, which will, of course, depopulate before then, killing Granny Dora's goats. Yes, we at IMRO are here to combat false news, so we've worked out a package of measures to try and stop this madness. That is why we cannot support the President in his desire to continue spreading false information faster than the coronavirus. Presidential veto is no surprise. It is a surprise, however, that he returned the texts of BSP to the texts that were passed in the dark, with blackmail, texts that very much resembled in content and in the way of voting at other times, the times of 1984, but not in Orwell, but in Zhivkov. In essence, this way of combating speculation is unthinkable, absurd, incorrect, harmful! The freezing of prices of all goods at a certain point does not correspond to the market economy. Furthermore, it will make it impossible and illegal to reduce the prices of fuels, despite the reduction of the price of oil, of steam and hot water, despite the reduction of the price of gas, even of salad vegetables, which in the spring are logically cheaper the salad needed by the Bulgarians in combination with the anti-flip agent it uses. Everyone in this room is aware that we must fight speculation. Therefore, we did not understand why our partners from GERB gave in to the blackmail of BSP and supported their text. Why didn't they support our proposal, the only thing that makes sense in this debate? A proposal that enables the Minister of Economy to determine a consumer basket with basic food and disinfection goods on which to set a maximum commercial mark-up? Not all of them, but just basic foods of necessity. And yes, colleagues, even on toilet paper. This is a working decision, in our opinion, and since we are firmly in favour of combating speculation, we are not going to support the president's veto today. We will submit a Law on Amendment and Supplement to propose these changes again. We call on our GERB partners to reject the veto and to vote at first and second reading the necessary texts quickly and to adopt a working mechanism as we have. Because the problems with false news must be resolved urgently, and the fight against speculation of basic foods and disinfectants must be brought to a successful conclusion. Thank you. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Siddy. Here you go, Mr. Simov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u20	Madam President, honourable Members! Thanks for the reactions. It shows that, after all, what I'm saying makes sense. Mr. Siddy, I'm afraid your proposal to combat false news is like treating a patient by hitting him in the head with a hammer. Because this can't be treating such repressive measures. The fight against false news would understand it, and this is a problem, going through support for quality journalism, through support for journalism, which is based on facts, through professional journalism. However, I do not remember once that your political power came up with a position in defence of any of the dozen journalists who were persecuted by this power and were fired, and were persecuted only for telling the truth! In Bulgaria, false news is not the big problem, the problem is journalists who speak the truth, and for that I do not see you taking measures. You only want to punish instead of trying to support it. And that is the problem with your proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u21	Thank you, Mr. Simov. Second line? I can't see. Mr. Siddy, come on in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u22	Mr. Simov, I really don't understand you're reading the program of the United Patriarchs, but you're not reading what we're doing. In the last two weeks alone, we have several declarations in defence of Bulgarian journalists. This one first. Secondly, from what we have proposed as a package of measures, a very small part enters into this law. Some of these measures have already been introduced, and by the end of the week we will bring the rest into a comprehensive package to combat false news. You didn't read that either. And last thing I didn't understand, you went out and defended the president's veto in his part with the fight against false news, but I never understood what the BSP's opinion was on the subject of the speculation proposal that you made yourself and which the President rejected you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Siddy. Any other speeches, colleagues? Mr. Zarkov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! This crisis, among other things, with a spotlight lights up the handicaps of many of our unreformed systems, as well as our governance as a whole. Unfortunately, it turns out that we will pay dearly for those three calm years, which have wasted the government instead of stabilizing the Bulgarian state. When will there be other calm years is unclear. What is clear is that in the midst of the crisis it is also seen that the chaos demonstrated brilliantly in the Legal Commission last week, the express deadlines, which were imposed for very important and difficult proposals, and in general the absolutely disabled at first reading Law, which had to be rewritten from the first to the last letter, led to another presidential veto. This veto concerns two of the problematic aspects of the bill. It could have affected a lot more. But let's focus on what the president tells us. With regard to the Penal Code and today of the Legal Commission representatives of the government, and Mrs Daritkova here just now, showed another pathological feature of this government, namely the inability to say: "We have sinned, we have not heard you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u25	And you? Shame on you! You're insolent! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u26	Then you could be much more convincing when you defend your positions. Your sense of infallibility, however, led to a text that, if it had not been for parliament, would have caused much more problems than it would have solved. It's always someone else's fault the previous rulers, the next rulers, we heard the president's guilty, everyone's guilty. You've never taken responsibility for one mistake. [[SIGHS]] And it happens to be wrong, and you don't have to keep burying your head in the sand. This text must be rejected. We fully support the presidential veto on it. We have been expressing this for hours. With regard to the second question, the issue of speculation, submitted by the BSP, because BSP identifies the fight against speculation as a major challenge that this crisis poses, we will support the President in this part of the veto as well, because we believe that if there are questions, they should be cleared. However, we remain fully referred to the matter and believe that we cannot allow this type of abuse of the state of emergency. What is the meaning of speculation that has been asking a lot of people lately? Well, speculation means, on the back of the restrictions imposed on one another to make easy money. This must not be allowed. Therefore, we will continue to work on this subject after today's veto and we will propose other texts, but the government also has responsibilities on this line in this emergency situation they must monitor with all the instruments of the executive for unjustified price hikes and abuse. In addition, all those social partners have a responsibility, mainly employers who have reacted sharply in the last two days. They must also be responsible and watch and monitor the members of their organisations and their partners to comply with elementary rules. On this issue, we have heard several times that the point of reference will be: "But they suggested it, but we rejected it, but then we accepted it. " - This is precisely the big problem, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that you have not been heard on this issue. First, you rejected, then you accepted, but at no point did it become clear what you wanted. That wouldn't be a problem if, by some unfortunate circumstance, it didn't turn out that you had a majority. And when you talk about unity and consensus, yes, we are ready for unity and consensus, but in order to have consensus on this, we need to know what your position is. That's what we never found out before. We support the president's veto and we will remain in our place to offer all those measures that will ease the life of Bulgarian citizens. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u27	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Any other speeches, colleagues? Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u28	Dear Bulgarian citizens! [[GERB lines.]] We face a great challenge as a people... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u29	Hey, Tsveta!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u30	Quiet, please, colleagues! Not Tsveta, please, Mr. Stoinev! Let's have our respect! Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u31	I apologize.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u32	...and lately there have been constant calls for unity, for consensus and consent. Yes, as a nation, we must face this danger, this challenge, and overcome it. We, as a political force, have contributed to the national political agreement, supporting the decision on a state of emergency. Alas, this credit of confidence to the government was not justified, but quite the opposite, and today we are discussing the Emergency Measures Act, which is proof of the wasted credit of trust given to GERB and the United Patriarchs. This law had to arrange for urgent measures to control the crisis and measures to address its effects. First of all, the most important is through social isolation, the isolation in our contacts to limit the spread of the disease. You have done it wonderfully. You have imposed the most restrictive measures in order to achieve this effect. From now on, it was necessary to react to supply the population, medical staff and doctors with masks, gloves, disinfectants and clothing. You didn't do it with that law. You rejected Lefty's proposal to unfreeze the state reserve, to unblock funds and materials from it and to provide this assistance as an urgent measure by the state not only to doctors, but also to all Bulgarian citizens. Why? The matter stands and will stand for a long time, honourable rulers. If there are no gaps in the reserve, or if you don't have the competence to understand. [[GERB lines]] that the reserve can intervene in the market and help in this crisis of the Bulgarian people? We'll figure it out in time. Next, we had to help the health care system and take on those threatened by the virus for treatment. And you didn't do that with the Law. You rejected BSP's proposal to arrange the status of private hospitals, to fulfill their constitutional commitment to equalisation of private, state and municipal property. Did you help the doctors, the first emergency measure you announced, and we had to sign? The Law lacks your commitment to increase the remuneration by 1000 BGN. Doctors. To this day, it is not clear how or whether you have fulfilled this commitment by the Prime Minister at all. At least he's legally not signed. On this most important first question, what have you done in the Law?! Self-isolation and restrictions, withdrawal of rights without any solution to real problems and giving incentives. You have come to the Minister of Justice, not the Council of Ministers, not the Parliament, the Minister of Justice to ask for the derogation of the Convention on Human Rights in Strasbourg. Why do you need this? Why do you deprive Bulgarian citizens of the right of complaint and protection that is guaranteed to them under the Bulgarian Constitution? This is what you have done in this part... restrictions, restrictions, without incentives and affecting rights! The second most important issue, which we had to resolve with the Law, is the socio-economic measures to overcome the effects of the crisis, or at least that is what you said. All over the world, isolation and restrictions go with incentives for the economy and households, we all comment on them and we know them: tax evasion, social security, mortgage loans; reduction of interest; increase of unemployment benefits; vouchers to help families; state guarantees for loans to companies. We can further list the reasonable and state-owned responsible measures taken around the world by other governments only here, in the Law submitted by the government, there is nothing like it. You rejected BSP's proposal submitted to the Law for budget update. Moreover, we have learned that from a billion and a half surplus 20 days ago the state is already three and a half billion deficit [[noise and lines]] , without any logical answer, i.e. without any answer even illogical. What happened in those 20 days and where did that five billion go? Where are the buffers set in the budget, and how many are there? No answers. You go with daily speculation that if we help small and medium-sized businesses and workers today, there would be no money for pensioners. Even at this critical moment, when you call for unity, you divide the Bulgarian people into one against another, working against pensioners, without thinking that those who will provide pensioners' pensions are precisely those working today and taking care of them, we will also guarantee pensioners' pensions in the future. From today we learn the disturbing news from the Minister of Government that there are 1,300 unemployed registered for one day on the Exchange. What have you done for these people, and not yet at the peak of the crisis with this law?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u33	It's only a week.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u34	What have you done with this law? You rejected BSP's proposals for aid from the country to companies [[a line from MP Stanislav Ivanov]] , to freeze electricity, heating and water bills. You assumed the state would help with 60% for employees' salaries, but if the companies had 40% to take the remainder up to 100%. Let's go to a slightly more vibrant level and ask you: imagine a small family hotel closed down, not working, can't take 40% of its employees' salaries, what will happen to them? He won't get the 60% that the state promises him because he can't take the other 40% on his own. What's next? A bankruptcy and an increase in unemployment. Here is also the issue of the speculation that you have so delightedly blown over the past twenty-four hours, with any speculation on the topic of "spececula". You have all spoken against the BSP about our proposal against speculation how bad it is, how non-working it is, but no other better you have proposed, gentlemen ruling. Ten days we ask the question, ten days we talk about taking measures and followed only grave silence. The facts of these 10 days: masks of 10 cm. There were dozens of levs, and today we heard a responsible statement that one kilogram of disinfectant was offered for 900 BGN. Facts: wholesale commodity exchanges and trades in one week prices rose by 3.25%, retail between 15% and 20%. Okay, you don't accept our offer, it's probably not perfect, but we ask you to reply again to a Bulgarian family: two workers go on unpaid leave with credit, with bills they owe, without salaries and at rising prices [[noise and lines]] Okay, give me the formula. Ours doesn't like you. Give yours. [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov]] . How is this family to cope with, you don't freeze his mortgage, you don't freeze his bills, you don't help him with unemployment benefits, and the prices go up? And a pensioner because yesterday the prime minister showed concern for the pensioners, with 300 leva. pension how to answer all these questions in the coming weeks? We expect, since you do not accept our proposals, to give yours [[a line from MP Stanislav Ivanov]] because it must be clear, even in a state of emergency, you are in charge of the state, you are responsible for today and for the consequences of the crisis! Propose an action plan! You don't have one of those only restrictions, no incentives. We will support the veto with understanding that our proposal is not perfect, and we will submit a refined text, but we want it to be clear: we will not allow anyone to accumulate money on the back of the disease and the misery of an entire people, and we will not accept the frustration, the carelessness and chaos of the government and we will ask you to complete a national socio-economic plan for the consequences of the crisis, for the help of the Bulgarian economy and for the rescue of the Bulgarian citizens who have suffered by it! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Bikov and then Mr. Yachev. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, please, we need to keep disinfecting the room at a level. [[Cleans tribune.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u36	Madam President, honourable Members! Today's speeches are largely repeating, without some details, the comments from Friday, which means that there may not be much change in the situation in this House. Mr. Zarkov mentioned that we never say we were wrong. On the contrary, I think we go out every other day, even too often to say it. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Yes, this is where we were mostly wrong about this nonsense relating to your text on speculation. That's an absolutely stupid offer. I'm sorry. Specula means that there is a deficit and that is why it is good the government, it is mainly the government's job, not so much the parliament, not to allow deficits. When there's a deficit, there's speculation. And there's no law to stop speculation. You have very extensive experience in this regard. At the end of 1996, you controlled 52% of market prices. Greater speculation since then the Bulgarian history in the last 30 years has not known, by much control, by many such magnificent measures. [[Applause from GERB.]] Speculation is something that's a symptom, it's not a disease. The disease is the deficit. That is why I hope that the government will have measures in this direction from now on. And I'm sure he'll take such measures. There's been another rumbling about handing out money. I would like to ask: which one of you can say how long this crisis will last? For how long? Is it going to be three months, is it going to be six months, is it going to be two weeks, so we can figure out what incentives to give the public right now? It's been exactly ten days since we declared a state of emergency. We've passed the law, but nothing has happened yet. Well, we passed it on Friday this law, on Sunday they vetoed it, it didn't come into force. What do you want done? I can't figure out what this fever is, with an apology. We need to be cool right now. People expect us to show peace, sobriety, not to tremble more than everyone else. Let an institution in this country behave calmly. There's enough tension in society to be the ones to warm it up. It will be to help those who need it. This will probably not be the last measures we take in this direction. And, by the way, if we had followed your demands for the last three years during the budgets, we wouldn't have this reserve today that you're talking about opening up and giving away in two weeks. It wouldn't be there because your alternative budgets suggested not surpluses, but deficits. And today we'd be wondering which way to take it. The loans we had to draw would have been at a much higher interest rate than we have now. But it's a matter of reading. Let us have a special debate on this issue in Parliament. We don't have to blow up all the bullets in one day, take all the measures, and you say in three days' time, but nothing happened. I expect you here in two or three days to say, "A," there's still a coronavirus! Why didn't you kill him somewhere? Let's take it easy, cool down. It's our calling right now. That's why we're here. That is why we did not go on unpaid leave and we owe this to all Bulgarians who are currently paying and will continue to pay the price for this crisis. And that price is not clear at the moment how much it will be. So let's bring peace to society together and not try to make some cheap PR on the back of the crisis. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u37	Line!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u38	Wait, I'll thank Mr. Bikov and I'll give you a line. Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. I give Mr. Zablyanov the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u39	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister of Justice! Even more respectable Mr. Bikov, one of your findings is: there is no change in the situation. There is no change in the situation related to the implementation of the Law. There is a change in the situation in the country's social and political life. She's dynamic, and I think she needs to be monitored by the government. The situation will not change because it is normal in this situation that the responsibility for most of it falls on you. So take careful account of the parameters of changing the situation. I don't want to rush into them right now. The question of the deficit. I agree, there is no emergency situation in which a deficit does not appear. It's about sources of deficit. They shouldn't mix. In your speech you have mixed two types of deficit and financial. There is a significant difference in both types of deficits. Secondly, there are several sources of this deficit in the commodity deficit. One is more demand than supply; the other is the inability of the holding to produce any commodity; and the third is speculative demand. All this leads to some kind of deficit. The matter of state control. Absolutely in this situation should not be hindered by the market in order for the market to deliver everything necessary to citizens, to be able to be produced and to be produced at a reasonable price. What, though, should be taken into account when talking about state control? Release the transport! The Minister of Health's gross mistakes in the warrant. Rough mistakes in the work of the Ministry of Interior. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u40	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u41	Paralysis of basic public activities. Stop this so that there is no deficit that you have caused, not the BSP bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u42	Mr. Jablyanov, get it over with.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u43	How long will the crisis last? I'm done. Thank you for reminding me.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u44	Make a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u45	Ten seconds. Don't listen to the War Minister. He doesn't know how long the crisis will last. He's dealing with other matters. And one more question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u46	Time! It's been 10 seconds. Make a statement, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u47	Thank you very much, Mrs. Karayancheva. One sentence can be said at these moments, can't it?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u48	Say one sentence, though.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u49	Thank you very much. You're a classic liberal of the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u50	I'm patient enough.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u51	What incentives? Think about it carefully. You will receive support from the opposition... [[The President turns off the microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u52	That's enough, Mr. Zablyanov. I'm running out of liberalism. Make a statement. [[The National Representative continues to speak with microphones off.]] Make a statement. I'll give you one minute on top. Please, Mr. Zablyanov, let's respect each other. You'll make a statement. Thank you. Mr. Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u53	Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u54	After Mr. Popov. Wait.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u55	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! Dear colleague Bikov, you said that we did not know how long the crisis would last. I would like to ask you: France, Germany, Britain do they know how long the crisis will last, that they have taken a package of measures? [[GERB lines.]] France introduced vouchers of 600 euros per family, frozen insurance, taxes. The UK is about 15% of the gross domestic product allocated to combat the crisis. It's nice to read a little more, because if you'd read, maybe you'd know that there's a permanent state of emergency law in the United States. There are laws adopted in 34 states on speculation and they enter automatically in an emergency situation without deficit. They act now, even when there is no emergency. Without a deficit, they work in the States all the time. Then come and ask if we know how long the crisis will last.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u56	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Third line? I can't see. A hole, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u57	Madam President, honourable Members! Now I'm giving myself an answer about where this law came from, which we all claim here is not good, a bar with the president. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The president came out yesterday and said that this proposal with speculation is not working. I mean it, too. I apologize for supporting him. I'll tell you why. Because the idea was to do something in common here. And you have had suggestions, whether you have them and we have accepted them, as you were expected to accept our proposals. In such situations, this is what is done, but the President came out and told you: this is not working. He didn't see what was happening in America either. Secondly, you give examples of France, Germany. You talk about this a lot in general. They are currently giving some frames that are going to happen, we will see when they will happen and they are making estimates. There are countries and some of those countries that you are quoting have been late with the coronavirus and measures, especially England. So we'll finally see who was wrong and who was right. I agree with Mr. Zablyanov on most things. Yes, of course transport must be released. By the way, the government is trying to make corridors within the European Union and succeeds. This is so that in order to have goods in stores, there must also be transportation of these goods. I wasn't talking about a financial deficit. There is no financial deficit at the moment, but most likely there will be at the end of the year. And those three and a half billion you're talking about, we're talking about by the end of the year, not that three and a half billion have disappeared in three days. Where are they going to disappear when they're getting together and about to get together?! The question is what's going to come together in the end. We're definitely gonna go out with a deficit this year. Maybe next time. But, again, let's just take it easy to think about these things. Let's make sure that the help is effective, not spill out all of a sudden and then wonder what to do. It is heard here: who will now compensate people for unemployment? They're signed up for the stock market and they're compensated. By the way, a lot of those numbers that signed up for the stock market came from abroad and immediately signed up here. Let's not get too hysterical about this situation. She's dramatic enough for us to give her our hysteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u58	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. Are there any other speeches?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u59	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u60	Yeah, I'm sorry. The way you're holding Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u61	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Minister! In this last statement of Mr. Bikov, you did not interrupt him once. And that's right, because Mr. Bikov made a valuable statement, the whole room was listening. And a moment ago with Mr. Zablyanov's cell phone, I counted for a line of his for two minutes you interrupted him four or five times. Madam President, a statement to any speaker in this room is not cheese in the hands of the grocer, the seller who cuts the knife and says: I measured a kilo, take and run! Madam President, even this rule in our Rules of Procedure that the President is monitoring whether it is being spoken on the subject is not particularly up to date, duly and correctly to have it at all, but it exists anyway. You know other parliaments. In the English House of Classics, no one can stop the speaker. And that's why he's got a certain time there. An hour, minutes. A classic example is how they talk about the football match between Manchester United and Chelsea Chelsea, let's say, to pass the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u62	And what can we conclude, Mr. Shopov, from your remark?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u63	Therefore, Madam President, when the entire room is staring and listening, as it was with Mr. Jablyanov, do not interrupt, because this is part of the time it has. If we detect interruptions and stops, he's entitled to speak for at least half a minute. I, too, sometimes, frankly, of course, overreact...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u64	I'll take your word for it now, Mr. Shopov, because it's two minutes away.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u65	Yeah, that's exactly what you're gonna do, and I wouldn't be surprised. There was no parliament in which there was so little real parliamentaryism as in the Forty-fourth National Assembly. And this has started since you replaced Mr. Glauchev on this tall stands. [[The President turns off the microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u66	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. I interrupted Mr. Jablyanov because the minutes were now two minutes and 48 seconds. I need to alert the MPs not to delay the time they're talking about. I've never allowed myself to take the floor when it comes to substance, but when time is over, I have to signal. Mr. Yachev, come in. Mr. Zablyanov should buy Mr. Shopov a drink.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u67	I can buy you and me a drink.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u68	And me? Okay. Mr. Yachev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u69	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, this time the MPs from the National Front for the Salvation of Bulgaria will support the veto of the President under the Emergency Measures Act. We will support him, though with a huge dose of disgust. First of all, it becomes clear that this is another clumsy attempt by the president for political PR, part of a series of unsuccessful steps to overcome the political and social isolation he has put himself in. And it is an isolation greater than the one that the Headquarters imposed with a declaration of the state of emergency for every Bulgarian citizen. At the same time, we believe that the text proposed by BSP colleagues under Paragraph 12, which lists the measures to combat speculation, is not only in gross contradiction with economic mechanisms and with the principles of the free economic market, but will also create an opportunity for an extremely high degree of administrative arbitrariness against small and medium-sized businesses that part of the Bulgarian society, by Bulgarian entrepreneurs, who are most vulnerable at times of crisis. Colleagues, let us not forget that at the moment the priority of the government, of the Bulgarian Parliament is to preserve the health and life of the Bulgarian citizens, but when this crisis is over, we must also think about restoring the economy. It can only be reborn on the back of the average and small entrepreneur. Therefore, I say again, we support the President's veto with disgust and we will vote for the President.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u70	Thank you, Mr. Yachev. The line, Mr. Chenchev, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u71	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Yachev, I was provoked by your speech to make this reply, and in the part regarding administrative arbitrariness. This administrative arbitrariness who would impose it if the Law came into force? Who runs the country? Is that what scared you of the administrative arbitrariness of the government, yours, which you have done more than once? And here from previous speeches and lines, because in some part of my speeches, my former colleagues, who stood on this platform, misled the House, told you that in a 14-million-dollar province of Canada, Ontario, when the cases of CIVID-19 infected were below 300, the state granted a total of 27 billion out of 80 billion. And Canadian citizens who are socially weak or who are suffering from this crisis are currently receiving a government decision of $1800 a month, $900 every two weeks, every socially weak Canadian citizen or economically affected by the crisis. BSP, first of all, wants care for people's health. Secondly, of course, your reaction to those in charge of economic and social measures that you should have taken, and whatever you are saying from here, you have not taken adequate action.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Second line, Mr. Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u73	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I have followed your speech and I have recorded your basics. Honourable Member [[turns to Mr. Yachev]] It's about measures in times of crisis. During this period the normal ones, because you are talking about market relations, normal market relations have been violated: closed borders, export ban, restriction of movement and so on, not to list all these measures. It's a marauder's paradise. As we know, masks a few days ago out of ten pennies are now at BGN 10. Liquid soap of BGN 4 - BGN 5. at BGN 12. and these are facts that every day the Bulgarian population encounters. Of course, there are difficulties in supply and there is a real risk that businesses will be tempted, however, to limit supply from the quantity available to them, expecting higher prices. That is the meaning of the Law against fighting. And if this is nonsense to you and you don't appreciate it, it's on you. I agree, of course, that this is not the most brilliant wording, but it can be corrected, and the correction cannot be made with assessments, it is done with a dialogue that was missing here, not our fault. The warehouses should not be allowed to be filled, and the shops should be empty, that is the idea, dear colleague. Next, we are defending and defending, and we will do whatever is necessary for us to prevent, on the basis of some irresponsible factors, from becoming a feast during the plague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u74	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Is there gonna be a third line? Mr. Yachev, will he have a back? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u75	Dear Mr. Popov, dear Mr. Chenchev, so is the times are extraordinary, we are in a state of crisis. We must not deepen this crisis with vague terms of the type of: all businesses to provide the population with the goods and services offered by them at prices equal to the average prices of the goods and services offered by them in the last three months. A more vague wording than this could hardly come up with and push. Why, honourable Members of the BSP, did you not make a preliminary agreement with the President if you really wanted him not to veto in this part.............................................................................................. You have been setting up here for the whole of Friday, 4/5 hours we killed in a debate, basically, it was a political debate, a statement of position, and ultimately all the other parliamentary groups made a compromise in order to remain the colleagues of BSP here in the Chamber and take part in the vote of the Law and this text was a compromise text. Convince the president, not the right half of the room, that this is the good text, the good text.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u76	Thank you, Mr. Yachev. Mr. Svilensky, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u77	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister! I wasn't going to take any part in Mr. Borisov's statement yesterday, but Mr. Yachev provoked me. Mr. Borisov yesterday two hours on three national media explained how BSP twisted the government's hands with the threat that he would leave parliament if the text on speculation was not adopted. She set an example with Dr. Daritkova, who called him and told him that if the text was not accepted, the BSP group would leave parliament. Mrs. Daritkova and Mrs. Kirilov and the BSP parliamentary group, and all of you who attended, and I do not know anyone in this room will confirm these words of Mr. Borisov. Because neither Mrs. Daritkova has been told that BSP will leave parliament so that the Prime Minister can lie to Bulgarian citizens and Bulgarian media and transfer responsibility to BSP, because the proposal was accepted and an hour and a half later a representative of the government came here, in front and said: "Well, colleagues, let's reschedule it. Why, guys? Why would a stupid proposal proposed by BSP, as you claim, support it? And I'm going to ask the question: what are the people who support stupid proposals? Why did you support him? Who twisted your arms? Let's get someone to say because yesterday two hours on Sunday the Bulgarian citizens were forced to listen to Prime Minister Borisov with his contraptions and about the reserve what he found, what he found, how he went to work for 40 BGN. To dig the foundations of houses to buy the Humane of her daughter, who was born in 83. How long are we gonna listen to this shit? And you think someone believes in this country!? Dear colleagues, let us really take a serious look at the situation we are in, accept the President's veto and move forward with texts to protect Bulgarian citizens both with the prices of medicines and food prices and also with the incomes and social benefits they need to receive, because in just a few weeks there will simply be no one to pay these incomes and these medical devices to be provided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u78	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Any other speeches? Mr. Tzipov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u79	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Third day we hear spells of the so-called political speculation. Third day instead of adopting and implementing the Law on Measures and Actions during the emergency situation, we are talking about speculation about goods. Dear MPs, if we do not adopt this law urgently, it will not enter into these most urgent measures, which must protect the lives and health of Bulgarian citizens, will not enter into force. These measures and actions, which should limit the negative consequences for the Bulgarian economy, will not enter into force. The measures and actions to limit the spread of this dangerous virus will not enter into force, honourable Members. What are we doing right now? We do not want to put aside our political contradictions because there was a consensus on the day of the adoption of the emergency situation. Now we are focused on arguing on this: which forecast should we make? Dear MPs from BSP for Bulgaria, for whom should we predict and give? Let us examine carefully what the state of the budget is, let us carefully consider what we need to do as concrete measures, not to talk in general: let us give. That's what we've been doing for the last three days. What did you propose specifically? Something that the President proposed by you brought back to you with veto, honourable MPs from the BSP? Just to remind you that in the last parliament, they adopted your rules on food chains for essential goods. Why didn't you make an offer to deepen these measures in your bill during the state of emergency, and offer something that your president brought back with vetoed MPs from the BSP. We have not heard from you to take responsibility as importers of this proposal. Yes, we made a huge mistake with the support of these texts on Friday, and we are not afraid to state it. Dear Members of Parliament, let us return to the debate on the adoption of emergency measures and these urgent measures to help Bulgarian citizens, but let us not forget that these emergency measures and actions are primarily aimed at the Council of Ministers to take all actions to limit the spread of this dangerous disease. Applause by GERB.)
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u80	Thank you, Mr. Tzipov. A line? The line, Mr. Popov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u81	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague Tzipov, you started by stopping political speculation, but right after that you started with this speculation, with these honest lies. You say that if you had not adopted the Law on speculation, the proposal for speculation, the whole Law would not have been passed. Absolutely manipulative lie! You have rejected another 17 measures - 17 of our proposals - and the Law has been passed. We have proposed that private and state hospitals be together on the front line in the fight against the coronavirus, and that private hospitals be able to join this fight. You rejected him! We have proposed an update of the budget you rejected. You want something concrete. We suggest you reject. The State Reserve offered, you rejected it. We have proposed a moratorium on not turning off the water, the heat, the heat of the citizens, because you deprive them of income... [[GERB's line.]] And you rejected that! So don't speculate, don't speculate on this topic and say that the Law wouldn't be passed. The law would have been passed! You came and wanted to accept our proposal for speculation, because it was right as an idea. There are indeed inaccuracies in it, but they could be cleared. You didn't want this to happen! Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u82	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Second line, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u83	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Tzipov, I will take this brief remark on your speech on the fact that the debates that we are having today are only delaying the Act of the Emergency Measures against the spread of the Coronavirus. But let me show you, Mr. Tzipov. [[shows vote printout]] , and the vote by the BSP parliamentary group, which today continue to defend their thesis. Yes, I voted for paragraph 12a, for which I apologize and regret it. And you, colleagues, from the entire group of 79 people, if memory serves me, have voted 23 for. Whether you were in the gym or not... Look at your vote. Even Mrs. Ninova has not voted for her own proposal. So this debate is exhausted from content and let us adopt the Law as quickly as possible. Thank you, Madam President. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u84	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Is there a third line? Mr. Nedyalkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u85	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Mr. Tzipov, so that there will be no more political speculation, which I hear are being done in the Chamber as a shooting.... who voted more, who voted less, whose proposal is it and by whom it was supported, I would disagree with you. Because what we are currently looking at is what the President has returned, because much of our legislation is unthinkable, and everyone in this room has to take responsibility. This line of mine is aimed at this as a person who is the President of the Commission and who is one of the leaders of the GERB group, you must help extremely much to improve the quality of legislative activity. Any proposal that passes through the National Assembly may be challenged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u86	Thank you, dear Mr Nedyalkov. Mr. Tzipov for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u87	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Popov, three days from the introduction of this bill we are listening to the same thing, which there is no, dear Bulgarian citizens, nothing to do with the need for the most urgent measures related to preserving the life and health of Bulgarian citizens. Dear Mr. Popov, the Council of Ministers is working, the Council of Ministers will propose all other important measures when we have a realistic forecast and this realistic forecast is related mostly to what the negative consequences would be for all of us, the honourable MPs of the BSP for Bulgaria. Mr. Ivanov, perhaps you were wrong to vote because on 13 March we agreed that we would seek political consensus. Maybe you didn't make a mistake because you didn't have time to get acquainted with the proposal of the MPs from BSP for Bulgaria. But here, their president, the president, who was broadcast by them, returned it to them, dear Mr. Ivanov, and this must be repeated all the time... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Dear Mr Nedyalkov, Bulgarian legislation can be improved. However, with behaviour like this today, it will be very difficult to achieve this consensus in order to improve the quality of Bulgarian legislation. Finally, let me conclude with a call: to approach responsibly, so that any measure provided for in this law can enter into force and be implemented immediately, honourable Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u88	Thank you, dear Mr. Tzipov. Any other speeches, colleagues? Mr. Minister wants to speak, but Mr. Gurnevsky has the floor. [[Noise and lines.]] Here you go, Mr. Gurnevsky. Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u89	Madam President, honourable Members! In these really crucial for the country, for the whole of Europe, for half the world days, in this Parliament we are witnessing everything Professor Altonkov described in his book A History of the BCP 1919. [[Reply from "BSP" for Bulgaria ":" On the topic! "]] I'm talking about it right now. It is a thousand pages, but there are four main conclusions from this story, to which you are empathetic to this day according to your statutes. Your party has always behaved nationally irresponsiblely in its interest in your terrorist interests, in your Bolshevik interests... [[(Voices from BSP for Bulgaria.) Loud noise and whistles.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u90	Mr. Gurnevsky!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u91	...and it's never...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u92	Wait a minute! Mr. Gurnevsky, please! Wait a minute. No whistling in the hall! Wait till I say my word! Sit down and stop playing! Wait a minute! [[Loud noise. A line from the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev.]] Why are you insulting Mr. Mirchev? Mr. Gurnevsky, wait! [[Aggregation around the stands.]] Now I'll punish you all if you keep doing this!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u93	Fascist!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u94	Mr. Mirchev, I'm punishing you! Mr. Gurnevsky, you too are being punished for being punished under art. 156. [[Reply by National Representative Stoyan Mirchev.]] Stop! I'll kick you out of the room, Mr. Mirchev, if you keep acting like this! [[Noise and lines.]] I just punished Mr. Gurnevsky for the word he said. Please calm down! Mr. Gurnevsky, please choose the words you express! Wait.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u95	On April 16th, 95 years of the attack on the church were made. Sunday, which is here... [[Loud noise and shouting.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u96	That's it! These are historical facts and he does not insult you in any way! Let's hear Mr. Gurnevsky make his statement. [[Relation of lines between MPs Spas Gurnevski and Georgi Svilenski.]] Mr. Gurnevsky, I'm going to ask you on this subject without going back to the historical facts. Let's be completely on the subject of... Wait, I'll give you the floor. Let the room calm down. Please sit down! Let's hear what Mr. Gurnevsky has to say.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u97	On April 26, it was the anniversary of April 26, 1986, when during the Chernobyl crisis your party was silent, did not tell the people. Is that how you protected the people then?! For the nomenclature were imported ecologically clean foods, and this people trampled on it and to this day paid the price of your irresponsibility. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We're talking about speculation!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u98	We're talking about speculation!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u99	This is speculation we're talking about!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u100	To speculation!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u101	About the speculation you wanted to protect with your proposals in the Law because...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u102	By law, Mr. Gurnevsky!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u103	...according to your limitations in the Law [[BSP's lines for Bulgaria]] The prices would limit up, but you would limit them not to fall down, which would be a rude challenge against the Bulgarian economy, because not allowing fuel prices to fall... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u104	Silence!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u105	...you've raised the prices of all the goods produced. Here, get to the point! I ask you, are there people in your group related to the wholesale oil business in this country, the big fuel suppliers, in order to pass such laws? [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u106	Mr. Gurnevsky, let's cut to the chase. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u107	Yeah, well, I'm telling the truth, and I'm asking them to answer. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We're talking about the fake news. Well, here's the fake news. False news is, like, since the 13th, Friday. The jumping Mr. Philip Popov and his other colleague, Simov, rose from this tribune, put words in my mouth in front of the entire Bulgarian people, that I have likened the sisters from the facade of the other building, such as the Terrorist people, without speaking that word. The only thing we've talked about is that the head of the NSA defines their actions as terrorist. And when I asked for the word, here's a violation of democracy, the Vice-President didn't even give me a chance to go out on the stand to protect my name. [[Reply by National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u108	Let's talk about it, Mr. Gurnevsky! Come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u109	That is, if someone here is restricted in their rights, we are rather the MPs of GERB, not you. You always use hidden privileges.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u110	Now let's say a few words.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u111	When we talk about the word "terrorist," your... [[Reply from the National Representative Alexander Pawnov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u112	Mr. Gurnevsky, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u113	Your leading lawyer called this guy [[Socce Minister Danail Kirilov]] As Chairman of the Legal Commission, a law-abiding terrorist. So these are your terms, and you use them, don't blame them on us. [[Noise and lines.]] But, Madam President, when...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u114	On the subject, Mr. Gurnevsky!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u115	...you'll punish us... Yes, on the subject!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u116	I've punished you already!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u117	No, no, no! I'll take punishment for anything, I can even punish myself. [[Laughter, noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria]] But first, I want you to punish the President of the BSP, who, out of this tribune, called this majority of murderers. Who has punished her to this day on the Svoge case?! [[Loud noise and lines.]] Punish her then you will punish us. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u118	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u119	Punish those 17 people who led with Svilenski who jumped here who had surrounded this tribune of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u120	Why?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u121	They wanted to take down the chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u122	Mr. Gurnevsky, this is a political declaration!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u123	You'll punish, you'll measure with the same arsin! You won't be for one mother, another stepmother! Cut us in a second, give them a minute, a minute and a half bonus. [[Calling from BSP for Bulgaria.]] So it is time to reject BSP's disgraceful proposals. We are in a market economy, it regulates and will decide the market and not the communist method of imposing a price limit at the time of Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u124	Thank you. We start with lines, then we start with personal explanations. Here's a line for you, Mr. Simov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u125	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Gurnevsky's word always causes a literary explosion in me. That's why I'm going to take the liberty of reading you a poem: Unwritten verse about Dimitrov...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u126	But go read it to him, not from the stands, Mr. Simov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u127	I couldn't reach for it. I couldn't find the strength. Lie to that blank sheet. How with memories inside of me they weren't... [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u128	What's the line, Mr. Simov? Now they're gonna blame me. [[Loud noise and lines. Chairman Tsveta Karayancheva turns off the microphones. National Representative Alexander Simov continues to read the poem with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u129	And the last verse...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u130	No, tell me what the line is. [[National Representative Alexander Simov continues to read the poem with microphones off.]] Take it. Now continue the line. The line!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u131	Okay, put the microphones on, Madame Chairman, because I have to graduate anyway. We started with poetry, let's finish.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u132	Give me the line. Let me hear it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u133	When the communist troubadours speak out of this tribune, the people who have dedicated their talent or sold their talent to ideas that they hate so much today, I think we should disinfect the tribune afterwards! [[Applause and laughter from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u134	What a high level of debate!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u135	Why are you talking about the level when we're talking? Why didn't you say so after him?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u136	I said a lot of things. Is there a second line? A line or a personal explanation? Personal explanation wait for the duplicate if there is another line, and I give you a personal explanation [[to MP Philip Popov]] . I won't. Mr. Gurnevsky, come in for the back. Were you able to write a poem for a little while and answer to Mr. Simov? But I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u137	This is no time for poetry, Madam President, but I'm glad Mr. Simov is reciting a poem that an entire editor has been fired from work for. You know so much about literature. [[Reply from the National Representative Alexander Simov.]] As for the singing of your party, I can tell you at least ten poems, but you will escape the hall, and you will bring me one in which I have sung the BCP. One, one, and I'll read it from here! If not, I'll make you say ten times: I'm the infector...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u138	Watch out, watch out.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u139	...with false news of the Bulgarian people. Now let us reject the mistakes you have made to Parliament in the President's thought and take Bulgaria to do its job, and you can...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u140	How did you vote?!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u141	I voted with disgust. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u142	Then there's a personal explanation. The degree of debate has gone up a lot. Mr. Popov, come in for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u143	Thank you, Madam President. After the tirade of... [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u144	Quiet, please! Colleagues, please be quiet! Mr. Popov, wait for the passions to break. Please hold. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u145	Thank you, Madam President. After Mr. Gurnevsky's tirade, my personal explanation is in this direction: Dear Mr. Gurnevsky, I really feel powerless to reach your intellectual colossus, to reach this height of thought. So I don't know what personal explanation to make. [[GERB lines.]] But, Mrs. Karayancheva, keep in mind that Mr. Gurnevsky's height has measured the height of your responsibility at such a critical time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u146	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Mr. Chenchev, will there be a personal explanation? No. We're done with personal explanations. Mr. Veselinov has a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u147	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! I wasn't going to speak either, but today is asking a lot of questions that I think we should answer ourselves. On March 13th, there was a timid hope that we were able to find consensus in this House. And when there is fear of an unknown disease in the country yet, we will find the strength to overcome differences on all other issues to find synergies with this fundamental nation at the moment. Today hesitates this faith, and my appeal to all of you is to make sense of our responsibility, because we did not go on a flu vacation just to see that the authorities of the state are working and inspiring courage to people. I don't think we're doing so well today. This issue of unity with which another statement began, we must ask ourselves not through the prism of the personal benefit that we will derive from this unity, because in practice these stated intentions of unification have cracked literally three or four days later. When we say that we will vote against the veto of the President, we do not do so to offend the President or in any way to offend his authority. We do it because freedom of speech is born into a dictatorship of lying, because there are suggestion and malicious manipulations of truth that aim only to divide people, and at one time when they don't already have the self-confidence and the necessary faith in tomorrow, we do what is necessary to deepen their frustration and feelings of hopelessness. My appeal, the appeal of all my colleagues at IMRO, is to humble ourselves a little bit and really look for common, not what separates us, because everyone has flaws, everyone has good intentions, which may not quite be dressed in the right form. Let's find a way to work together. If you will, this overtalk about the measures for the crisis. As if whoever first says: let's take measures for the crisis and throw some measures in the wind is the nation's savior. Of course we all want there to be such measures and, of course, there will be such measures. Let us discuss them in a reasonable tone, I am sure that we all have the right suggestions, and in the end we can do something in common. I conclude once again with a call for us to be a little more humble in the situation and to look for the way to each other.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u148	Thank you, Mr. Veselinov. Are there lines? Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! We are in a very difficult time and certainly no one can tell how long this will last. Somehow from the speeches of colleagues on the left, without teaching them, of course, I was under the impression that, you see, we have a huge desire to destroy the business and leave people out of work, given that so many years the management of GERB has been associated with it with a very strict financial discipline, with very clear parameters, so that in difficult times we have the opportunity to react. And thank God GERB rules in these years, because when I hear a speech of the kind: Give us, let us update the budget..... without even having an idea what is the hole in which we are currently falling, for me this is absolutely irresponsible. But what's worse is this. Last week on Friday, the 13th, as strange as it sounds, something historic happened, and I was proud to come out of this room for being able to achieve something together for the sake of the welfare of the state, for the sake of the health of the Bulgarian citizens. That was really unprecedented. And when we get out of this room today, I kind of wish we could think about each of us putting each other on the side, not as a member of parliament, not as a political group, not the demand for any dividend, but what the Bulgarian Parliament broadcasts, what the signal to society is. I have to tell you, it's not a good signal. Instead of learning from the citizens who are outside this room... 'Cause you know what makes an impression on me? Today I'm looking at a line of people going to donate blood, a simple example. People are starting to be more solid than they ever were. People started helping each other, carrying each other, organizing each other, helping older people. To have solidarity, to have much greater solidarity, which is necessary in such a difficult time. And what kind of signal are we broadcasting out there? What do we achieve with these bickerings, what do we achieve with someone here surrounding the stands and stepping on all sorts of normal, ethical rules, a way of communicating between different parliamentary groups, even though they have different thoughts and everyone is ultimately looking to show themselves to society? Today's event, today's debate may make me ashamed rather than what happened on Friday the 13th. Therefore, colleagues, it is nice to think, not as MPs, that you are opposition, that you want in some way to show the public that you are more concerned than others, is not the time now. The most important thing now is to preserve the health of Bulgarian citizens. Perhaps the Law we have passed is not perfect. The text about speculation is absolutely imperfect. Maybe you can do better than that. However, I will not apologize for having voted on this law, the notorious § 12. I will not apologize, not because I do not believe in it on the contrary, I believe that it is inappropriate and can rather lead to bigger problems and a lack of goods in the retail chain than to improve the situation and deprive the market of speculation. I will not apologize not for anything else, but because I have done it and my colleagues, I believe that they have done it in the name of looking for some intersection points to show the signal to the Bulgarian citizens that they, and we are together, sailing in the same boat to be able to get out of this crisis. Colleagues, the more we continue to discuss this topic and the reactions in the last days by the President and by you, on the left, of course, I am the last person who can give you brains, the only thing I am happy about, if there is something joyful, is that you are not ruling the state at this time. [[Applause from GERB.]] Otherwise, as sad as it may sound, we would probably be the first country to try how it will affect the economy, society and the health of the Bulgarian society, the mass spread of the coronavirus without any measures to see if this community immunity would help to overcome the crisis more quickly. Thank you. [[Private applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u150	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. - What's the line? [[Reply by MP Milko Nedyalkov.]] But you don't have time. Come in, Mr. Prodanov if you can, within 30 seconds. Directly to the question, you may not even address it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u151	Dear Mr. Nenkov, to be honest, I didn't expect you to make this moral teaching here from the stands, and I'll tell you why. Not because I don't agree with what we look like in today's debate, with the scenes that happened. But you, Mr. Nenkov, don't you know Mr. Gurnevsky when he comes out on this stand, what does he say? In the last three years, don't you understand what this man is saying? [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u152	What's the line?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u153	My point is that at least I expected it from you because, as vice-president of the parliamentary group, instead of letting Mr. Gurnevsky say what he always says when he comes out here, you could go out and say for example: the state has such funds to solve the crisis, for example, a billion and 200 million...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u154	Mr. Prodanov, the 30 seconds from me you got them. Thank you. Here every Member of the National Assembly has the right to make a statement. No one gives the floor and gives the permissions. Second line? I can't see. Mr. Nenkov, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u155	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! I'm a long way from being some sort of moral judge to anyone but myself, maybe. Mr. Prodanov, what do you think people see, do they like it? What did I say? Many times in this room we have crossed every line of normal, collegiate and human relations, but today is not the time for this to happen! Today's not the time! It is no coincidence that I said that I am congratulating you on March 13th, Friday, here this Parliament broadcast a very strong signal to the Bulgarian society. And what you're doing right now is your decision, but you missed it. [[noise and lines]] You missed this golden chance you had to show the public that in difficult times society is united! And as they teamed up outside this room, and people started helping each other, so we had to do it here! It's the truth! And nothing else matters right now! You will reap the fruits of this behavior. And if there is any speculation, it is that you are currently speculating on the situation, looking for some very, very cheap political dividend, but it will not work out for you! I'm sorry. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u156	Mr. Angelov, for a statement? The way you're leading it? Here you are, Mr. Angelov, for a procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u157	Madam President, I appeal to you and to the leadership of the National Assembly. I have one question: whether the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian irresponsible is urged that today there is a meeting of the National Assembly...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u158	Mr. Angelov!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u159	...to vote on these measures, which are important to the entire Bulgarian people and the Bulgarian state? Second session! On Friday they came, they had a circus, the same ones, Madame Chairman, and they left, and they were gone all day. They speak always on behalf of the people, of the people, and they are afraid to come to the House to avoid infection. These people, this parliamentary group offends the Bulgarian Parliament, the Bulgarian people and the Bulgarian state with the fact that they are not present and afraid! They're afraid as MPs, Madam President, that they'll be here, that they'll accidentally get infected and go out on a limb! And isn't it the job of the MPs to help both in need and in crisis, especially when the state is in crisis here to be united?! True, there are disputes, there are sometimes sharper debates, but we're all here, the rest of us, no matter patriots, left, right, center, even DPS. [[noise, lines, laughter]] Even though they're our opponents, they're here too! What is happening with this parliamentary group is just an insult to the Bulgarian Parliament and the Bulgarian people! I do not know how measures can be taken, but I propose that the leadership of the National Assembly really discuss this and that an entire parliamentary group is not committed to the problems in the crisis situation in which Bulgaria is currently in, and that they are afraid to come here?! I don't mind if they come back with raincoats. [[noise and lines]] Whatever they want, the point is they're not here to empathize with people's problems!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u160	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. I understand your procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u161	But you understood, but I said the same thing on Friday. I guess you didn't understand me then it was Mr. Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u162	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. All MPs are informed that today we will have an extraordinary meeting, but if any parliamentary group has decided not to attend, I cannot in any way interfere with the work of the group. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Colleagues, please take your seats. Honourable Members, I re-vote the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by the National Assembly's decision on 13 March 2020, adopted by the National Assembly on 20 March 2020. They voted 188 MPs: 14 against 118, abstention 56. The offer is not accepted. Dear colleagues, according to art. 86, para. 6 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly regarding the contested texts of the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by the National Assembly decision on 13 March 2020, the procedure under art. 84 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly.. re-vote the contested and related texts. Mrs. Alexandrova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u163	Madam President, honourable Members! Since the Law did not bring together the necessary majority, I propose that we apply the procedure under art. 80, para. Article 2 in conjunction with Article 2 86, para. 6 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, namely to move forward to discuss the contested texts in the second vote and to vote as proposed in paragraph 1. 2 of the Committee on Legal Affairs Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u164	First, the second vote procedure and then we will continue to read the text. Vote 186 MPs: for 186, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Alexandrova, come in. You will present each point to us so that we can vote separately. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u165	Thank you, Madam President. 'II. The contested provisions and the related texts shall be voted on as follows: "1." In § 3, t. 2 (a) / (b) / (c) / (c) / (d) / (d) / (e) / (f) / (f) / (f) / (f) / (f) / (f) / (f) / (f) / (f) /
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u166	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the first point of the contested provisions. Vote 187 MPs: 173, against 12, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u167	"2." Paragraph 12a shall be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u168	Statements? I can't see. I'm voting on it. 2 of the contested provisions and the related texts. Vote 187 MPs: 185 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u169	Madam President, I request a re-vote procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u170	Please vote on Mrs. Alexandrova's procedure. Revoting the t. 2. Vote 180 MPs: 180, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u171	"3." Paragraph 51 shall become § 52 and shall be amended as follows: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The law shall enter into force as of 13 March 2020, with the exception of art. 5, § 3, § 12, § 25? 31, § 41, § 49 and 51, which shall enter into force from the day of the promulgation of the Law in the State Gazette, and shall apply until the emergency situation is abolished.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u172	Statements? I can't see. I'm voting on it. 3 of the contested provisions and the related texts. Vote 187 MPs: 187, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u173	"4." Paragraph 50a shall be renumbered as § 51.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-23.u174	Statements? I can't see. I'm voting on it. 4 of the contested provisions and the related texts. Vote 184 MPs: 184, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. With this, the procedure for the re-voting of the contested provisions of the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by the National Assembly Decision on 13 March 2020, adopted by the National Assembly on 20 March 2020, returned for a new discussion with Decree No 70 of 22 March 2020 of the President of the Republic, under art. 101 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria is over. To the President of the Republic of Bulgaria will be sent for promulgation in the Official Journal. The Law adopted with changes made to it with both dates for its adoption. Colleagues, I'm going to introduce you to two messages since I forgot to read them to you at the beginning. Messages: Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria in implementation of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces informs the National Assembly that by its order he has authorised the passage through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria of the non-military nature of an aircraft with its crew from the Air Force of Ukraine. The plane will fly from Ukraine to China and back to transport medical property. The authorisation shall be valid for the period from 20 to 25 March 2020. The notification was received on 20 March 2020, with reference to the notification. No 003 09 27, and granted to the Defence Committee. On 19 March 2020, the European Parliament and the Council adopted Decisions (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] and (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the financial year 2013 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). No 003-07-5, the National Assembly received a Report on the implementation of the principles and objectives of pre-school and school education in accordance with the Pre-school and School Education Act. The report shall be submitted on the basis of art. 251, para. 1 of the Preschool and School Education Act. The report was sent to the MPs of their official e-mail, provided to the Committee on Education and Science and is available at the Library of the National Assembly. In the National Assembly on the basis of art. 133, para. 3 of the Public Finance Act received reports on the implementation of the Programme Budgets for 2019 by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the State Agency. The reports are made available to the Budget and Finance Committee and to the relevant portfolio committees and are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. We've run out of agendas for today. The next regular plenary session on Thursday, 26 March 2020, at 9.00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
