ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, I will read you the order of the President of the National Assembly on the occasion of today's meeting: On the grounds of Article 1, paragraph 1, point (a) is replaced by the following: 78, p. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria I DELIVER: I call an extraordinary plenary session of the Forty-fourth National Assembly on 12 May 2020, Tuesday, at 1300 on the following agenda: Point one. Second vote on the bill amending the Health Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 5 May 2020. Adopted in first vote on 8 May 2020 My fellow Members, at the Conference of Presidents, we have taken the following decision, which I will put to the vote. On the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that the following additional item be included in the Programme for today's extraordinary plenary.. Draft decision to amend the decision on the work of the National Assembly during the emergency situation announced by a decision of the National Assembly by proposing to be the first item in the Program for the Meeting. Please, voting mode. Vote 152 MPs: for 151, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, I'm going to introduce you to a few messages: On 4 May 2020, with entry No AD-020-00-11 in accordance with the provision of art. 261a, para. 5 of the Law on Electronic Communications The Commission for the Protection of Personal Data has provided the National Assembly with generalized information under art. 261a of the Law on Electronic Communications (January "December 2019')). By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the material was sent to the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the application and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications and the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order and is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. On 8 May 2020, the National Assembly received a report on the topic of the macroeconomic forecasts of national and international institutions. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the material was sent to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism and was available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Colleagues, we're moving on to: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO CHANGE A DECISION ON THE WORK OF PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTURING AT THE TIME OF EXECUTIVE POSITION EXPLAINED BY A DECISION OF PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTURING, which we have adopted as the first point for today. It'll be distributed in a few minutes. I will introduce you to a few words what we decided at the Conference of Presidents. We decided that we would vote on a new draft decision on the way to vote on the Draft Law amending the Health Act, which we will vote at second reading, not in the way in which we adopted the procedure when we were in a state of emergency, in order to be able to work more smoothly, as there are many proposals, supported and unsupported, and to have the opportunity for the MPs to get acquainted with them more extensively, to consider the way they vote and give their vote. We're waiting for the Solution Project any minute now. I'll read it to you now: "Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 88, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly we submit a draft decision amending the decision on the work of the National Assembly during the state of emergency, announced by decision of the National Assembly (Dv. 22 from 2020), n.o.b., SG No. 26 out of 2020. Importers sveta Karayancheva and Valeri Simeonov. Project! DECISION amending the Decision on the work of the National Assembly during the emergency situation, announced by decision of the National Assembly (GD, SG No. 22 from 2020), n.o.b., SG No. 26 from 2020 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED In the decision on the work of the National Assembly during the state of emergency, announced by decision of the National Assembly (SG. 22 from 2020), (prom., SG No. 26 of 2020, amended, No. 29 from 2020, dot. No. 33 from 2020), paragraph 6.4 and point 6.7 are repealed. You have the floor for speeches, colleagues. I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm voting on the draft decision. Just so you know, he was unanimously adopted at the Conference of Presidents. Vote 164 MPs: 162, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Moving on to item two on our agenda: SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE HEALTH LAW. The Second Reading Report will introduce us to Mrs. Alexandrova. Mrs. Alexandrova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Report on the Draft Law amending the Health Act No 002-01-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 May 2020, adopted on the first vote on 8 May 2020. The Health Act was amended. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the importer in principle and proposes the following name of the Law: the Law for Amendment and Supplement to the Health Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u3	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the text on the name of the Law. Vote 163 MPs: 114, against 45, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u4	Paragraph 1 "Instruction text'. According to § 1, there is a proposal of the MP Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the MP Maria Belova and a group of MPs: In § 1 relating to art. 61, para. 6 to be amended as follows: The conditions and procedures for the compulsory isolation of patients from infectious diseases, of vectors, quarantine of contact persons and persons entering the territory of the country from other countries, as well as the movement of contact healthy persons working on farms and processing establishments to their place of employment shall be determined by a regulation of the Minister of Health. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... Article 61 is amended as follows: Art. 61. (1) Mandatory isolation and/or hospital treatment shall be subject to persons suffering from and carrying cholera, plague, smallpox, yellow fever, viral haemorrhagic fevers, diphtheria, typhoid typhus, poliomyelitis, brucellosis, anthrax, malaria, severe acute respiratory syndrome, COVID-19 and bacillus division tuberculosis. (2) The mandatory quarantine shall be subject to contact persons of persons suffering from contagious disease under para. 1. In order to prevent the spread of infectious diseases under para. 1 of mandatory quarantine may also be subject to persons who have entered the territory of the country from other countries. (3) The Minister of Health, on a proposal from the Chief State Health Inspector, may order the compulsory isolation of persons suffering from infectious diseases outside those referred to in para. 1 and of vectors, as well as mandatory quarantine of contact persons. The order defines the period of mandatory isolation and treatment under para. 5, respectively, the mandatory quarantine under para. 6 in accordance with the epidemiological risk of the spread of contagious disease. (4) Compulsory isolation and hospital treatment of a person under para. 1 and 3 shall be carried out by the director of the regional health inspection concerned on a proposal from the doctor who directed the person for hospitalization. (5) The mandatory isolation and treatment of a person under para. 1 and 3 may also be carried out at home with a prescription from the Director of the regional health inspection concerned on the basis of a proposal from the treating physician on the basis of an assessment of the existing epidemiological risk. (6) The mandatory quarantine of a person under para. 2 and 3 shall be carried out by the Director of the regional health inspection concerned or by an official authorised by him. (7) The Minister of Health shall, on a proposal from the Chief State Health Inspector by order, determine the period of mandatory isolation and treatment under para. 5 on the faces of para. 1 and the mandatory quarantine under para. 6 of the persons under para. 2 in accordance with the epidemiological risk of the spread of contagious disease. (8) Contact persons under para. 2 and 3 may not refuse to carry out a study in order to establish the possession of contagious disease under para. One or three. (9) The Minister of Health shall establish a model of the prescriptions under para. 4, 5 and 6. (10) The provisions of para. 4, 5 and 6 are subject to immediate implementation. (11) The orders under para. 3 and 7 and the prescriptions under para. 4, 5 and 6 shall be subject to appeal before the relevant administrative court under the Administrative Procedure Code. (12) The orders under para. 3 and 7 are general administrative acts which shall be issued in accordance with art. 73 of the Administrative Procedure Code, are published on the website of the Ministry of Health and are subject to prior implementation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. You have the floor for speeches, colleagues. Here you go, Mr. Mikhailov. Colleagues, I'm asking you all to put on your masks.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u6	Thank you, Madam President. At the beginning of our discussion, honourable ministers, honourable Members of Parliament, I would like to express the hope of what happened at our last meeting here at the first reading, the discussion to be fruitful, tolerant, to be such as to benefit the Bulgarian nation, for which we have all gathered here. With regard to the proposed changes in art. 61, I want to say two things. I don't know. 1 On what basis are diseases arranged, some of which have disappeared from Earth's territory, others are characteristic of quite other regions. If the World Health Organisation document is opened, there are diseases for every continent that are significant in terms of their epidemic, there are also diseases for the continent of Europe. Last but not least, in par. 1 is erected on a pedestal that does not deserve categorically, the current one, commented by all of us, infection COVID-19. I allow myself to repeat it as a specialist this is not a particularly dangerous infection, it does not possess the main signs of a particularly dangerous infection that are related to the manner of disease of patients who have touched it. For especially dangerous infections, that means you're absolutely seriously ill. And the second, that the mortality rate is significant, I don't want to talk about percentages. Here mortality is still visible that the huge number of researches, especially in certain countries, is not significant and continues to decline visiblely. I mean, it's quite enough. 3, which states that the Minister of Health can offer isolation to individuals with infectious diseases that are outside para. 1, and we must not do anything that is contrary to all professional departures in deciding on anti-epidemic measures. Next, I would like to draw attention to you in para. 7: The Minister of Health on a proposal from the Chief State Inspector with an order determines the term of mandatory isolation and/or treatment of persons................................................................................................ I would like to draw attention to both the Minister and the honourable Members that on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and on the territory of the whole world no mandatory treatment can be given to anyone. This is a violation of his rights, with the exception of individuals who are not responsible for their actions, this is a particular contingent of patients, and is carried out specifically with the decision of the court. So we need to be a little more moderate in para. 7. I think this treatment thing should go away. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u7	Thank you, Mr. Mihailov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? Here you are, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u8	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I believe that in today we will all be guided by the belief that what we accept will benefit the protection of the life and health of Bulgarian citizens. I would like first of all to congratulate the nurses today because today is International Sisterhood Day. According to the World Health Organisation 2020, it was declared the International Year of Nurses and midwives. I want to wish everyone who fearlessly struggles on the front line with the CoVID-19 challenge, to follow the mission of their lives, to give hope and to save lives! I wish them many health and personal successes! [[Applause.]] We all remain in the debt of their community. With regard to the texts of the Health Act, I would like to emphasise that the content of para. 1 of art. 61's been like this for years. It added only in 2012 the severe acute respiratory syndrome, which is again associated with diseases caused by coronaviruses but other strains. I don't know what the criteria that some of my colleagues use to determine the epidemic potential of certain infections are, but they have changed over time, because the challenges of the variability of viruses also set new conditions for us to deal with each new infection. That is why we, after making a reference, have decided that we should explicitly record the already popular and popular disease CIVID-19, which is caused by a new strain of coronaviruses, so that we can outline the measures that guarantee Bulgaria's handling of this new epidemic spread of virus that has never caused human disease. I believe that there is no way to dispute its existence, given that not only Bulgaria but the whole world is fighting the epidemic and pandemic, in this case caused by coronavirus and measures in all countries, we must emphasise that they are similar. We must also stress that thanks to the timely taking of measures, this consensus that we reached then with the decision to introduce a state of emergency, we made it possible that in Bulgaria the rates of morbidity and mortality are one of the lowest in Europe and the world. We may have a responsibility to state that in this way we have preserved the life and health of Bulgarian citizens. From the point of view of the texts that have been proposed for final editing, I will only allow two editorial notes which were included in my initial proposal. Please take them into account. In relation to para. 5, where it is about isolation and home treatment, I would like to ask you to write down the possibility of this being isolation and/or treatment and because, based even on my own experience, I would like to stress that it is not always necessary for those who have been shown to have an infectious disease to be treated if they do not need to be treated in order not to look like forced treatment. Something that was interpreted in relation to other paragraphs. I therefore ask that this editorial note be restored in relation to the editorial proposals I have made. The other thing that I think will be particularly useful in order to be adequate and timely in the measures we take in para. 10 to make an amendment that the prescriptions under para. 4, 5 and 6 are subject to pre-execution and not immediately to an appeal, which is possible, of course, under the Administrative Procedure Code, not to stop the execution, that is to say, not to allow the quarantine not to be respected and to pose a risk to the life and health of Bulgarian citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Mikhailov. Then Mr. Kostadinov and Mrs. Naydenova third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u10	Dear Madam President, honourable Ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear colleague Daritkova, I agree with you that we must have consensus. The consensus will not be affected by this if the COVID-19 falls out of para. 1, because I'm going to tell you that humanity is being attacked by 200 types of viruses, some of which don't appear here at all. Even some of the strains of the flu virus, because you allowed yourself to talk about mutations, virus variability, are many times higher deaths than the death rate of the COVID-19 virus. Then we should in para. 1 to include the flu virus, and its options. Those were my considerations to suggest al. 1 to remain without the COVID-19, and in the third paragraph it is quite well described when, under what conditions, the Minister and the Chief Health Inspector may propose the appropriate measures. I fully agree with your remark on para. 5 As far as I recall, you said, but if it is taken into account, your remark about para must also be taken into account. 7 and the word "skilling" to fall, since in both cases, first of all, it is not certain that treatment is required, secondly, it cannot be, as you yourself said, necessarily. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u11	For al. 7 Are you proposing to take up a course?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u12	Yeah, to go to school as she suggested for para. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, [[Relations of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova.]] We cannot impose mandatory treatment in law on citizens who do not wish to be treated. There is no comment on this, except in the case I quoted you. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u13	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. I'm recording as your proposal the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u14	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! Normally, like any man and layman in medicine, I also have some explanation for what is happening at the moment worldwide. For me, the answer is that the anthropogenic pressure on nature and globalization of the economy to such an extent puts pressure on nature that we are on the eve, perhaps, of many new and radical viruses. In this regard, based on this thought, I think that the COVID-19 as a name here is not correct to write it, because, even because of the fact that it is part of the group, as far as I know, the SARS viruses, they are, firstly, with many varieties, secondly, talking about their mutations. My question is this: if we leave it like this, every year,................................................................................ That is why I support what you did as a line Professor Mihailov, and I urge you to think, and you to think together, that is, to think about putting in place standards on how to qualitatively evaluate the pandemic of individual diseases, and not nominally list them, yet I say, don't give yourself a god every year. So I think it's another argument to at least work with the generic name if we've recognized something as highly epidemiological. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u15	Just to ask, is this motion to drop out, are you making a procedural proposal, an editorial amendment or not? You're just commenting.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u16	I'm commenting.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u17	Thank you. Mrs. Naydenova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u18	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I, too, would like to support the dropping out of the CIVID-19, and I would like to tell you why. Another argument. Every week, regional health inspections send information to the Ministry of Health about a number of acute infectious diseases whether they occurred in their area. I'm not gonna quote enterovirus infections, hepatitis A and so on, they're known, you're gonna see them on the website of every RZI. However, there is an explicit reference to acute respiratory diseases. That's why, since this is the case here, even though this is a syndrome of many diseases, to remain, and the explicit reference to the CIVID-19 to be dropped. [[Heckling]] Second, on Dr. Daritkova's proposal. Yeah, I agree with Al. 5 and para. 7, that we have to add to the treatment (s) but in that case this should also be done in para. 3 where it says: "A mandatory quarantine of the contact persons." The order shall specify the period of mandatory isolation and treatment. That is why I propose that after the word "insulation" and "insulation" be added to the "slope" line or "slope."
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u19	In para. 3? Or 7 and 3?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u20	All of them. Three to go, five and seven.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Naydenova. Mrs. Daritkova, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u22	Is COVID-19 a particularly dangerous infection according to the old criteria that we've probably learned about infectious diseases? According to what is happening at the moment, around the world we have over 4 million and 100,000 patients and over 200,000 dead, and it is blocked in the form of various measures taken for social isolation, to protect the population in almost all countries around the world. I think that we should take responsible action and accept this kind of editing of art. 61, because this allows to continue the measures outside the state of emergency, which ensure the preservation of the life and health of Bulgarian citizens. Everything else is actually a matter of personal responsibility. This must first of all be an appeal and we must demonstrate here by the National Assembly that without protecting ourselves and others, we cannot cope with this challenge. With regard to the comments made, I agree with the fact that in para. 7 should be written about the isolation and/or treatment, I and there I had proposed it so that the presumption of mandatory treatment would not be allowed. However, we insist on mandatory isolation because this really ensures that the infection is stopped.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u23	And paragraphs 3 and 5 too.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u24	In relation to para. 3 there I do not see at all where it can be written, as this paragraph concerns quite other diseases, as it is mainly about measures taken in connection with emerging outbreaks of infections, such as influenza epidemics or hepatitis A epidemics, or other types of epidemics, as we had in the context of certain outbreaks, that is, we do not necessarily bind them. Then we have developed the thesis in the next new member, which we have created - 63 - with the possibility of not making this by decision of the Council of Ministers, as we have proposed. To allow for greater operationality of the Ministry of Health, for example during the seasonal flu to sign measures that allow to further limit the consequences of the epidemic.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u25	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. Mr. Atanasov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u26	Dear Madam President, honourable Ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Rather, my speech will be a question to doctors in our parliament.. They are over 30, nearly 30 people, and it is as follows: in world health history is there a disease, is there a virus that has so far covered the entire world, all continents, absolutely all continents? Is there a virus like that? Usually there are many more deadly diseases than the corona virus, and now there is no point for doctors to explain it to the plague epidemic 1349 killed half the population of Europe, this has been proven, the ebola in Africa, the smallpox in Latin America, 25 million Indians died when the Spaniards carried smallpox and discovered the new continent. But these were diseases extremely much more dangerous than the coronavirus, but they were in certain regions. So far, at least I don't know the world's disease, a world virus that will cover the entire world. So at least I don't engage with my parliamentary group, I'm against it in art. 1 to make any changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. Statements? A line? Here you go, Mr. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u28	Thank you, Madam President! Dear Madam President, honourable gentlemen and ladies ministers, honourable Members of Parliament! Dear Mr. Atanasov, whom I really respect, I am glad that the discussion so far is going constructively, but we risk missing it now, embarking on each of the stands to present their ideas on medical culture. Of course there are viruses that have infected the whole world, one of them is the smallpox virus. To tell you that he, because you may not know it, this is one of the reasons why Bulgaria is very easily defeated in a terrible war and 500 years to be under foreign rule. The territory of Bulgaria has been almost devastated, but this virus, Mr. Atanasov, comes from China, if you do not know, it is then carried to America with the first ships to go to America and destroy the Indian population and almost destroy it on the territory of America. So, give me quite correctly, it was very pleasant for me the surprise of the discussion that has been going on so far, not to go into the general medical notions of who is the virus that is dangerous, what is in history, there are specialists, there are 30 doctors. I respect that you want to help, but you are not helping in the case of this statement. And let's go back to the specific discussions, not to go into such general terms, so we don't get dissonance with the serious topic we're dealing with right now. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u29	Thank you, Mr. Mihailov. Second line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u30	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers! Dear Professor, with great respect to you, I must tell you, although you are a medical officer who said about smallpox is so, but it never covers the whole world, it is of nests, it is of nests. The plague is also nesting. If you know, and you are a doctor, you should know the year 1349 starts from Cafa, in the so-called Cafa, Genuezka Cafa, in the Crimean Peninsula, which is transferred to Constantinople, from Constantinople to Venice, Genoa, Marseille, and from there all over Europe, but now there is no such virus that has covered the world in three months! I just wanted to clarify that. For the smallpox you're right, but it covers part of the world and it's nesting, and the biggest, yes, and what you said you're absolutely right about the Indians on an entire continent. You're right about that! But I won't, I repeat, even though you're a professor, there's no virus in three months to cover the whole world. That's why he's so crafty, because he's extremely clingy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u31	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. Any other speeches, colleagues? I don't see any other speeches. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. Please invite the Members of the National Assembly to the Chamber. First, we will vote on the unsupported proposal of the MP Maria Belova. They voted 105 MPs: 3 against 42, abstention 60. The offer is not accepted. Colleagues, we are now proceeding with the editorial amendments. I'm asking everyone to keep an eye out so we don't miss anything, because there's been a lot of suggestions. First, I put to the vote Mrs Daritkova's editorial for para. 5. Vote 128 MPs: 80 against 2, abstention 46. The motion is accepted. We continue with Mrs Daritkova's second editorial amendment in para. 10. They voted 139 MPs: 87, against 2, abstention 50. The motion is accepted. Now Mr. Mihailov's proposal to drop out of para first. 1: "COVID-19". They voted 136 MPs: 49, against 47, abstention 40. The offer is not accepted. I now submit Mr. Mihailov's second proposal in para. 7 The treatment is to fall. They voted 134 MPs: 51, against 62, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Mrs. Naydenova's editorial in para. 3, 5 and 7 let's add: sloped line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u32	That should apply to all three paragraphs.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u33	I will submit your proposal, Mrs Daritkova. This is in the three paragraphs, which Mrs. Naydenova suggested in the three paragraphs, that there be a.... or.......................................................................................... They voted 133 MPs: 47, Against 8, abstention 78. The offer is not accepted. I now vote on Mrs Daritkova's editorial amendment in para. 7 to be done:........................................................................................... In para. 7 - Do you confirm, Mrs Daritkova?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u34	My proposal is in para. Five and we've already voted it out.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u35	Excuse me, just to see him in isolation and/or isolation in para. Five, I'm in the wrong. In para. 5 We change:..... Once again, in para. 5 becomes..... They voted 122 MPs: for 85, against 3, abstention 34. The motion is accepted. I am now voting on the version of § 1 with the editorial amendments made to the Commission report. Vote 127 MPs: for 86, against 40, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u36	Proposal by the National Representative Daniela Daritkova to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal, which is reflected in a new § 3. Under § 2, there is a proposal of the MP Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. In § 2, art. 63 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: In the case of a declared pandemic and a real danger of spreading the contagious disease within the territory of the country or within the territory of a separate area or municipality, the Minister of Health, on a proposal from the Chief Health Inspector, shall declare by order an emergency epidemic situation for up to 30 days. 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: By the order under para. 1, the Minister of Health shall determine the anti-epidemic measures on the territory of the whole country on a proposal from the State Health Inspector or on the territory of a separate area or municipality, on a proposal from the Director of the Regional Health Directorate concerned. Z. In al. 4 words by para. 1s and 1s shall be replaced by.. under para. 2s. 4. In para. 6 words by para. The following points are inserted after paragraph 1 (b) (i) and (ii) (ii) of paragraph 1 (i) of this Article: The words "in the event of a declared emergency" shall be inserted after the words "in the case of a declared emergency situation" under art. 84, p. 12 of the Constitution of the Republic of 5. In para. 7 words by para. The following points are inserted after paragraph 1 (b) (i) and (ii) (ii) of paragraph 1 (i) of this Article: The words "in the event of a declared emergency" shall be inserted after the words "in the case of a declared emergency situation" under art. 84, p. 12 of the Constitution of the Republic of 6. The creation of para. 9. If necessary, the Council of Ministers shall, on a proposal from the Minister of Health, propose to the National Assembly that an emergency be declared. Paragraphs 2 and 8 shall also apply in the event of a declared emergency. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and group of MPs: The following amendments shall be made in § 2: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 the new content of para. 1 is amended as follows: The Council of Ministers, on a proposal from the Minister of Health, announced by a decision an exceptional epidemic situation. 2. Points 4 and 5.. shall be The Commission does not support the proposal. But here I'd just like to say that in point. 1 supports it, and we discussed it in the Committee on Legal Affairs. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... Article 63 is amended as Art. 63. (1) In the immediate danger to the lives and health of citizens of epidemic spread of contagious disease under art. 61, para. 1, in order to protect and protect the lives and health of citizens, an exceptional epidemic situation is announced. (2) Emergency epidemic environment under para. 1 shall be declared for a certain period of time by a decision of the Council of Ministers on the proposal of the Minister of Health on the basis of an assessment carried out by the Chief State Health Inspector of the existing epidemic risk. (3) An immediate danger to the life and health of the citizens under para. 1 is available when carrying out the assessment under para. 2 it is established that the contagious disease referred to in Article 2. 61, para. 1: 1. is caused by a pathogen with high epidemiological potential (infectivity of the cause, high mortality, multiple transmission or healthy carrier) and/or source, mechanism and route of transmission are unusual or unknown; or 2. poses a serious danger to public health, even if the number of cases found in humans is low, or 3. may make it difficult or delay public health control measures, including due to lack of treatment and/or vaccine and/or the presence of numerous outbreaks, and others; or 4. has low immune coverage of the population, or 5. is unusual for the region, season or population, or 6. occurs more severe than expected, has a higher incidence and/or mortality or has unusual symptoms, or 7. puts at risk vulnerable or risk groups of the population (children, elderly people, refugees, persons with immune deficiency and/or chronic diseases and others), or 8. there are registered cases among medical professionals. (4) In the event of the declared exceptional epidemic situation under para. 1 The Minister of Health shall introduce temporary anti-epidemic measures by order on a proposal from the Chief State Health Inspector for the territory of the country or for a separate area. (5) The measures under para. 4 may also include a ban on entering the territory of the country of nationals of other countries, except for citizens with permanent, long-term or long-term residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as members of their families. (6) The measures under para. 4 may also include temporary restriction of movement within the territory of the country, as well as temporary suspension or limitation of operation or operation of public-use objects and/or other facilities or services provided to citizens. (7) Temporary anti-epidemic measures under para. 4 may also be introduced by order of the Director of the regional health inspection concerned, in agreement with the Chief State Health Inspector for the territory of a separate area, municipality or locality. (8) The medical and health establishments, regardless of their ownership, shall comply with the measures introduced under para. 4 and 7. (9) State and municipal authorities shall establish the necessary conditions for implementing the measures under para. 4 and 7, the funds for their implementation are provided by the state budget, respectively by municipal budgets. (10) The orders under para. 4 and 7 are subject to appeal before the relevant administrative court under the Administrative Procedure Code. (11) The orders under para. 4 and 7 are general administrative acts which shall be issued in accordance with art. 73 of the Administrative Procedure Code, are published on the website of the Ministry of Health, respectively on the website of the regional health inspection and are subject to prior implementation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Statements? Mr. Mikhailov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, Dear Ministers, Dear Members of the National Assembly! At the beginning of my speech, I would like to be understood correctly, our parliamentary group is pleased that it is precisely because of our proposal that the exceptional anti-epidemic measures should not be decided single-handedly by the Minister of Health on a proposal from anyone, and that they should be the responsibility of the Council of Ministers, that some of these changes in the relevant paragraph have been made and that they have been reflected quite correctly by the President of the Legal Commission who has just read them. Yesterday, however, we had a very serious discussion in the Legal Commission, which was not for the Legal Commission, as it is highly expert. I want to tell you that what is offered in para. 3 for the possibility of creating criteria and eight points are described, and on top of that it is written that anti-epidemic measures can be taken if there are only some of these criteria, let alone that there are frank retail things in there, not to mention another definition of But I would like to share with both the Minister and the honourable Members of the Chamber that such eight points can be referred to all infectious diseases on the territory of the country that are spreading. They are described in a very conscientious manner and I shared this yesterday with Mr. Ananiev in Ordinance No 21, which means that in practice, when and as the Minister of Health decides, he can declare anti-epidemic measures in one area or another on the side on the basis of these eight absolutely unclear criteria. There are no figures behind them, what someone tried to say yesterday, nothing is behind them, there are some common symptoms of all infectious diseases. They may have changed mortality at some point, with certain contingents having their meaning, but in no way such criteria. That wasn't classy of us. Here I allow myself to address Mr. Kirilov a second time, yesterday I told him that it was not our political power that wanted such criteria, and such fuzzy criteria, which, my God, can apply for any infectious disease, never wanted BSP. He never wanted to! Let us not enter this maze of the Minotaur, to release these criteria, regardless of who will ever be the Minister of Health, he will be able to propose to the Council of Ministers with similar nebula criteria to be introduced anti-epidemic. And I shared on several occasions yesterday: the anti-epidemic measures is a multi-layered problem, honourable Members of the National Assembly. It examines economic measures, social measures, transport measures, restrictions of one type or another in parts of the country's regions or throughout the country, so it cannot be proposed. This is very professionally wrong for me, and I am in no way, except for what I share with you right now, honourable Members, and before the honourable ministers, I cannot oppose this, but I am asking you as a professional, as a human oncologist and oncohematologist, and a transplantist is dealing with 35 years of infections that, for the most part, are very serious and dangerous to our sick, not to allow yourself to bring such things into the Law, because this is absolutely wrong and can lead to consequences that none of us can foresee. You shouldn't. These are expert evaluations. Yesterday we also talked about how an epidemic situation is announced, how schools in Bulgaria are closed. These criteria change, gentlemen, every year. These are very complex problems that are solved by certain experts who offer the country and its Council of Ministers the most elementary measure of closure of schools, as is through a flu epidemic. So let's not allow ourselves here to make a choreographer out of pseudo-measures that will allow for solutions from whichever side we look. I'm sorry I didn't see him in the gym, but if we just... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thank you, I'm done. If we take only.. you don't have to know it, Mr. Minister. Kokakaki's infection, which is observed in young children, which can in any way occur in a patient, there can be explosions, there can be spread very quickly in it. We should not allow such proposals that are deeply retail and can lead to serious consequences. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u39	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Are there lines? I can't see. We continue with the speeches. Mrs. Jaffer, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We will have to join Professor Mihailov's concerns and colleagues on the left regarding the texts that are written in this article. Please, the management and importers of the text, specifically Dr. Daritkova, to clarify what these criteria need to be formulated and what it refers to when defining those criteria, which must prove that there is an immediate danger to the life and health of citizens under para. 1? It is worrying when the following criteria are laid down:. Diseases that are more severe than expected have a higher incidence or mortality or unusual symptoms. What do you mean, unusual symptoms, colleagues? They pose vulnerable or risk groups of the population, children, elderly people, refugees, persons with immune deficiency and/or chronic diseases and others. Does it mean that whenever there are cases recorded among medical professionals, there is an opportunity to announce that there is an imminent threat and that an emergency sanitary situation should be moved at all? Dear Minister, honourable Members, is it not time when such texts are offered to the attention of the people's representation, to invoke and to take the opinion of experts? Mr. Minister, since last year there are no more national consultants in specialties, but you have created expert advice. I recall: there is an Expert Council on Virology, there is an Expert Council on Epidemiology, there is an Expert Council on Infectious Diseases, as well as on Clinical Immunology. In each of these expert councils are members, supposedly the best specialists between four and six. Here are 20 people - a think tank that can formulate clear criteria that can give expert opinions and offer texts that are supported. I ask for clarification: where do these criteria come from because they really cause concerns beyond worries that there is an unconstitutional moment in this article in particular? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u41	- What's the line? Are there any lines, coworkers? I won't. We continue with the speeches. Mrs. Daritkova, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u42	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen ministers, colleagues! The proposal to make a definition by which a decision can be taken to determine an exceptional epidemic situation was stated even after we heard the criticisms in the previous review of the Law at first reading that there are no criteria. What we have proposed as criteria has been taken from an official document of the World Health Organization since May 2005. The 25th World Assembly of the World Health Organization has described and outlined these criteria and these criteria are referred to only the diseases under para. 1, that is, every disease cannot be defined unless it is explicitly listed in para. 1, we have already listed them there which are particularly dangerous infections, to be considered in the hypothesis that an emergency epidemic situation can be announced. I have also made a proposal and I think that before BSP colleagues, the Council of Ministers and not the Minister of Health decided to determine an emergency epidemic situation. You can really think about it, but I don't see any other proposal. In the lines we exchanged with our colleague, whether the National Assembly is not responsible for such a situation, but I believe that a complete analogy should not be made with the state of emergency. Furthermore, as far as I have consulted lawyers, the decisions of the Council of Ministers are subject to judicial review, that is to say, one such situation cannot be declared and it has no consequences and cannot be attacked in any way. Of course, it is logical for the Minister of Health to use all the scientific potential found in the healthcare system, because this proposal must have clear motivation and be related to each of these criteria, which cannot be considered as single. In terms of unusual symptoms, when an infection occurs, which causes unusual pneumonia, as in the case of COVID-19, this, of course, is perceived by medical professionals as an unusual symptom and can be found principles and criteria that really allow specialists to motivate the decision and all this to be taken with all responsibility for what we do, namely the protection of the life and health of Bulgarian citizens. Therefore, I ask you to support this text, because none of my fellow Members have proposed a better definition, and in this case I do not see any suggestions for optimising the texts. Colleagues, let us still have some starting point that is in line with the international documents that have ratified Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u43	Thank you. Are there any lines? The line, Mr. Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, dear colleagues! I hope from now on that we do not go into the scenario which is more, more, the most, as in an old children's show, who proposed first the Council of Ministers to make a decision. There's a transcript. It shows what happened at the last meeting. No parallels can be made with basic WHO documents, either since 2005 or 1995, which concern situations worldwide. I have told you several times in my previous statement that there are various diseases for different continents that are identified by the WHO as epidemically dangerous. And in that sense, I fully agree with Dr. Jaffer's words that there is no serious explanation for this para. 3. It's too general. Let's just say that there are only some of the things written inside and she told you very well that when there are infected medical professionals, does that mean that we can, because there are some of these eight points, declare an anti-epidemic environment, regardless of which paragraph this item refers to? 3. My specific proposal, specifically here in this case, is para. 3 completely dropped. That was the reason, Mr. Chairman, I turned to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u45	Another line? I won't. For the back, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u46	My fellow Members, I really count on you to look at the proposal that has been made impartially. I have no claim of legal perfection, but at the same time none of you in any way offers editorials. This can be corrected over time. We have indeed taken advantage of a document presented to us by the Ministry of Health, respectively the Chief Health Inspector, so that we can refer to an official document of the World Health Organization and repeat these criteria. The important thing in the reading is that they relate to the specific diseases that are described in para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 61, and what we want to prevent from finding out if there is a really extraordinary epidemic situation is to protect and reduce the risk by minimizing the immediate danger to citizens' lives and health. That's the point of these criteria. Once again, they will be motivated by the Minister of Health, using the full expertise of all specialists and the decision will be taken by the Council of Ministers on the basis of this proposal. This, of course, is subject to control.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. We continue with the speeches. Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u48	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Minister, Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! One of the tasks that we fail to accomplish here is to explain clearly to the Bulgarian citizens what is happening, what is waiting for them and what we are ultimately arguing about on this text. Of course, he's very complicated. Doctors go into all sorts of details, but there are three issues that need to be resolved and they are for the Legal Commission, that's where they belong. And these were the following: who announces an emergency epidemic situation, when such an environment is announced, and what follows? For who is announcing an emergency epidemic situation "You have accepted our proposal, you have done the same, to be the Council of Ministers and not the Minister of Health, one of the issues that were most acutely discussed during the first reading of the Law and this is the right step. The government must take responsibility for such an action. With regard to when such a decision is taken, the representatives of BSP and the DPS explained that the definition is not clear at all about when the Council of Ministers can make such a decision. And, yes, he will be subject to judicial review. And, yes, it can be canceled. But what is most important, and why are the disputes at all, and why do we dwell so detailedly on this question, is: what follows from the fact that such an epidemic situation has been announced? And what follows according to your text, which is unconstitutional, is that by order the Minister of Health will be able to restrict certain rights of Bulgarian citizens. Why do I say it's unconstitutional, and why did we try to avoid this unconstitutional? The second part of our proposal, which you did not support, is points 4 and 5 of the original proposal, which explicitly mention that it can be restricted, temporarily restricted movements within the territory of the country of foreign citizens, as well as closure of sites, travel between settlements, can only be limited in the event of declared emergency under art. 84, p. 12 of the Bulgarian Constitution. In this state of emergency, according to our basic law, these things can be limited by law. There is no way, no matter how much you wish, to cancel the emergency situation at the same time as to leave it in action. What could have been done and should have been done is to introduce this flexible mechanism, but it can only reach one place. This place is where the fundamental constitutional rights of Bulgarian citizens are affected and restricted. For example, you can take different orders to regulate the process to one extent or another, but when it comes to that level where entire cities should be closed, where travel should be banned, where whole objects should be closed, only the National Assembly is the authority that can do so, according to our Constitution. That is why we have proposed to you to become the Council of Ministers the responsible body, to be subject to judicial control, on the one hand, to the parliamentary.. on the other hand, to remain the texts that we wrote together only 20 days ago, because they are in force two months ago, they are in force in this emergency situation, before that they were not in the Health Act, and this was a reasonable approach, which at the same time ensures sufficient flexibility for the government to take the necessary measures, but also to guarantee the constitutional place of the Bulgarian Parliament, and hence the rights of all citizens. The opposite leads to changing, opposing orders with masks, without masks, 14 days of quarantine for the Bulgarians who return from Greece, but not for those foreigners who come, and any public controversy that ultimately harm the effectiveness of the measures. You listened to the first part of our proposal. It's not too late to listen to the second one. There is no need to deceive Bulgarian citizens. Dear Bulgarian citizens, the country is either in a state of emergency or not. Interim mechanisms can be found, but without fooling each other. What we're being offered right now is largely a delusion, and that's why it won't work. And that's why we don't support him.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u49	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Minister, you wanted the floor. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u50	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honourable Members! I am taking the floor because this debate I believe has an essential value for the legal decisions and the legal debate that has been held so far and which will obviously continue to be held. For this reason, in view of the position of colleague Zarkov, I would like to raise a few questions and express an opinion on them. First, we were very careful about complying with the regime set out in the Health Act. I believe that all colleagues on the left and those who are medics and those who are lawyers have already taken into account that this law in this form was adopted in 2004 and the major amendments to this law were implemented from 2004 to 2008. You can see this in the title of the Health Act. Our ambition was to fully comply with the order so far. For this reason, in the legislative structure that we have offered to your attention, we have brought the Health Act to the fore. I'll bring the debate back a little bit further. It was attended by fellow lawyers from the Bulgarian Socialist Party, as well as lawyers spokespersons close to the Left. Their thesis was the Law of Disaster Protection. About three days, we were intensively discussing the Law on Health or the Law on Disaster Protection. We weighed the pros and cons of whether and how we should refer, to look for an analogy with the Law on Disasters, the specific case of this epidemic how it qualifies in relation to the Law on Health and, respectively, to the Law on Disasters. We have accepted your basic thesis to seek an analogy in the Law on Disaster Protection in relation to the rank of the authority making this decision. We assumed that up to now, 20 years could have been passed on to the Minister of Health. But in the debate at first reading you said: "No, that is not enough! You choose the sacrificial lamb, the Minister of Health, and you take no responsibility. For this reason, and as the President of the Legal Commission rightly pointed out at the presentation of the Report, your proposal on this point. 1 was accepted. That is, in the final version of your attention, the authority is the Council of Ministers. What does that give you, and what does that take away from you? For legal certainty and stability, I would say that nothing special is happening. Why isn't it happening? Yes, we are raising the authority's rank by an authority with special competence is now a body of common central competence. The appeal is the same. The orders of the Minister of Health are appealed to the Supreme Administrative Court, the decisions of the Council of Ministers are also appealed to the Supreme Administrative Court. We have read your request as a request for a clear acceptance of political responsibility. That is, we have accepted that you say: we want the collective body of the Council of Ministers to take the political responsibility for declaring an extraordinary sanitary situation. And for this reason, in the current texts we read this option as a final option. By the way, it's the same as parliamentary control. As you can individually invite the Minister of Health for parliamentary questions and questions as well as ministers, as members of the Council of Ministers, we answer to you on the line of individual control. Is that anti-constitutional? No, absolutely not! Because it wasn't against the law to be the Minister of Health for 20 years. In this sense, increasing and extending the responsibility of the executive, of the central government, I do not think that in any way the constitutionality of this decision is violated. But will it stop talking about it? No, he won't stop talking. I've been monitoring all your satellite speakers closely. This thesis will be developed. And I advise you, if you insist, if you want only your parliamentary group, if you want together, to check the constitutionality of this decision. But I say again, I believe that justice and legislative and constitutional care here is much higher and we should have no doubt in that sense. If I would like to be a provocator, I would turn to our GERB parliamentary group and ask them to support the main decision of the importer our decision of the Council of Ministers. Yeah, because after that debate, it turns out to be probably the most useful and safest. As we are going to do these checks, let's check out the Health Act and its current regime before the Constitutional Court. Let's all explain to people what's taking so long with the measures. Let's all explain! The only significant difference that appears in the competence of the Council of Ministers is this Why are we delaying the decision? Because we've given the National Health Inspector additional work to write reports, to write analyses. We have given the Minister additional work to prepare himself and to refer to the Council of Ministers. [[Replication by National Representative Krasimir Yankov.]] Dear Mr. Iankov, I will open a brace specifically for you because you are a competent participant of the Internal Commission and I will say the following: I have experience as a district manager of Sofia for three years and nine months. During these three years and nine months I have made n a number of councils and committees, including the Epizootics Council. I've announced flu vacations, all kinds of vacations in the area. I know what the reaction of the individual authorities is, and I tell you in the Law, which acted during the Triple Coalition when we had the Ministry of Emergency, the emergency system was based and established in this way actions from the bottom up. It's just coordination from above. And in this particular case with these debates we are assigning a huge activity, I would say, to the top of the pyramid. Someone was also talking about the organizational activity. We are also entrusted with organizational measures and events. Why? Well, let's use our lower levels of administrative treatment and response. However, I say again, in view of the request to assume both political responsibility and the responsibility of the executive, we have proposed and adopted this option, which, I stress, has been fully prepared by fellow MPs who are medical professionals. The jurists saw him at the last moment on Sunday around 4:00 p.m. and I support their work! Mr. Chairman, Mr. Iankov from the opposition is calling for me to stop. That's why... [[Radio and laughter.]] He's obviously getting tired! From the attempt to follow consensus in this case, but I say: please, in this situation, let us reverse the debate. Let's go back to the import text. This is more operational, this is more working, and you should generally care whose head you're looking for and want to cut off from this tribune. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u51	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Yankov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u52	A statement, not as a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u53	A statement? You made a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u54	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable members of the Council of Ministers! In a republic with parliamentary governance such as Bulgaria, the announcement of an extraordinary epidemic situation is as the announcement of a state of emergency and can decide only the National Assembly. The Constitution states that a restriction of fundamental rights can only be done under a state of emergency and by law for a certain period of time. I would like to draw your attention, Minister, to the fact that the limitation of the rights of the Bulgarian citizens had not taken place before 13 March "the day when a state of emergency was declared. The introduction of a state of emergency is explicitly regulated in the Supreme Law and it is by an act of the National Assembly. Until a few days ago, the functioning headquarters performed its function with powers conferred on it by Boyko Borisov. Although there were lights in our medicine, the legitimacy of this structure remains controversial because of the existence of a legal framework that requires a specific model for management in a pandemic crisis, and it is another 2006 adopted "National Plan of the Republic of Bulgaria for readiness for influenza pandemic." This crisis situation has also given you grounds for other attempts to violate legal provisions and constitutional rights, such as the way citizens are controlled and tracked down. Now, with the changes in this law, you are trying to completely ignore the democratic public regulation guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. The fact that your will can be imposed by the power of your parliamentary majority does not give you reason to take advantage by passing decisions against the interest of those who have given you their trust. Bulgarian voters have one supreme guarantor of their rights and this is our Constitution. I urge you to observe it strictly! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u55	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. - What's the line? We continue with the speeches. I don't see any further statements, fellow Members. We will call off the debate and move on to the vote. I will put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. They voted 141 MPs: 10, against 3, abstention 128. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. They voted 141 MPs: 50, against 70, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Mr. Mihailov's motion to drop para. Art. 3 of art. 63. They voted 143 MPs: 52, against 73, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 2. They voted 136 MPs: for 89, against 39, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u56	The Commission proposes to create new § 3 and 4: .................................................. A new article shall be created. Art. 63a. (1) In the case of epidemic spread of infectious diseases under art. 61, para. 3 The Minister of Health may introduce by order anti-epidemic measures on a proposal from the Chief State Health Inspector for the territory of the country or for a separate area for a certain period of time. (2) Anti-epidemic measures under para. 1 may also be introduced by order of the Director of the regional health inspection concerned, in agreement with the Chief State Health Inspector for the territory of a separate area, municipality or locality for a certain period of time. (3) In the case of epidemic spread of infectious diseases under art. 61, para. 3 no anti-epidemic measures shall be introduced to prohibit the entry into the territory of the country of nationals of other countries and temporarily restrict the movement into the territory of the country. (4) The orders under para. 1 and 2 shall be subject to appeal before the relevant administrative court under the Administrative Procedure Code. (5) The orders under para. 1 and 2 are general administrative acts which shall be issued in accordance with art. 73 of the Administrative Procedure Code, are published on the website of the Ministry of Health, respectively on the website of the regional health inspection and are subject to prior implementation. ............................................ The current article. Art. 63a becomes art. 63b.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u57	Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u58	I will ask someone from the Legal Commission to say whether there is a duplication of what the Commission proposes in the new § 3. 63a, para. 1 which is too much like the already accepted art. 61, para. 3. One more thing, I think there's been a technical error. Again, please take a close look. In this proposal by the Commission the text of the created new art. 63a, para. 1 writes: "In the case of epidemic spread of infectious diseases under art. 61, para. 3 - Yes, but al. 3 deals with mandatory isolation of persons. Isn't this the first paragraph? The same applies to al. 3 of the newly created new art. 63a, where again is formulated............................................................................................. 3: "No... " I believe that in para. 3 of the proposals by the Commission a new § 3 should be dropped out of the words "al." 3: No...... and to remain al. 1. I very much ask the Legal Committee to pronounce whether there is a technical error.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Naydenova. Are there any lines? I won't. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova, for clarification on the case.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u60	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Naydenova! There's no technical error. It's about the diseases outside of those under para. 1 in art. 61, that is, the lighter by type of disease. It is specified to a working group, in the Legal Commission, with all the experts of health and legal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm calling off the debate. I vote on the Commission's proposal to create new two paragraphs 3 and 4 with a text on the Commission report. Vote 127 MPs: 91 against 35, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u62	Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 5: .................................................................................. In Chapter 2, Section V is created art. 63c: Art. 63c. In the event of a risk or epidemic spread of infectious diseases, the state and municipal authorities, the natural and legal persons shall cooperate fully with the authorities of the state health control.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u63	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 5 with a text on the Commission report. They voted 124 MPs: for 89, against 1, abstention 34. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u64	A proposal by the National Representative Hamid Hamid creates a new §..: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: A new para is being created. 9 containing the following: All claims arising in connection with health insurance, including benefits, penalties and periodic payments shall be settled at the end of a five-year period. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u65	Mr. Hamid, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u66	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the Parliament, honourable Bulgarian citizens! Tomorrow the state of emergency announced by the National Assembly expires and the following day the suspended statute of limitations, suspensions and any procedural deadlines begin. In this regard, there are also some other tax deadlines to which this proposal applies. A specific occasion for the proposal is a signal from the Minister of Health to the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council. This signal claims that the courts in the Republic of Bulgaria apply a different and uniform regime of the different courts in relation to the claims arising from contracts with the Health Insurance Fund, as well as all claims related to the expenditure of this public resource. Following verification by the Chief Judicial Inspector, that fact shall be established and the relevant letters shall be sent to the Presidents of the Supreme Court of Cassation and the Supreme Administrative Court for the taking and preparation of further proposals. What's the difference? Several groups are the relationships arising from the collection and spending of public resources in healthcare. The first group is the claims of the Health Insurance Fund on the contributions that employers and individuals make. There is no problem, there is a five-year statute of limitations most likely because the regime and the instruments under the Tax Insurance Procedure Code are applied and there the National Revenue Agency collects them. There is a problem in the following categories: claims of the Cashier from hospitals; claims of hospitals from the Casa and the biggest problem with the largest amounts is claims of the Casa arising from intentionally caused damage to drunk and drugged persons who caused or crashed, or committed a crime on hooligan motives. Last year we obliged the Health Insurance Fund to collect these funds, after it was found that a drunk or drugged driver committed an act and damaged a person for the treatment of which huge funds were paid from the Cashier. I just want to point out that at some points, the treatment of one person with severe bodily harm reaches hundreds of thousands of levs. That money right now, the Cashier, even though she owes it, doesn't collect it. The cashier learns about this after years after the short limitation of the Law on Obligations and Contracts has expired. Therefore, I propose an explicit text with which the regime of claims arising from health insurance relations, from payments between the Casa, hospital institutions, as well as the claims of the Casa by such persons, to be common and to be comparable to that under art. 117 of the Tax Insurance Procedure Code, because there is no doubt that this resource is public and must be treated equally. This is the finding and the opinion of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council, which signalled the Presidents of the Supreme Courts in Bulgaria. Further in the transitional provisions, I propose a counter-action norm because this problem is before 2019 because of 1 January 2019 in art. 45a in the Health Insurance Act, we have introduced an explicit norm with which we have declared the type contracts between the Casa and the hospitals as administrative ones and now the regime is the same. It is about huge funds unclaimed by the Cashier, for which according to some courts the term of limitation is shorter. Another question is, of course, whether the Health Insurance Fund has the resources to go to any such case, where there is a disaster and whether it is not time to think about a text with which to oblige the judicial system either through the Supreme Court of Cassation or the Prosecutor General's Office, to inform the Health Insurance Fund of any judgment or acquittal in which expenditure paid by the Cassata has been established. I hope for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u67	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I don't see any other speeches. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Hamid Hamid. They voted 111 MPs: 14 against 39, abstention 58. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u68	Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs: screated § 2a: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 209a, para. 1 words "al." 1 or 2 is replaced The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create new § 6 ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the supplied or not implemented by the Minister of Health or by the Director of Regional Health Inspection anti-epidemic measures under art. 63, para. 4 or 7 and art. 63a, para. 1 or 2, unless the act constitutes a crime, is punished with a fine from 300 to 1000 BGN, and in case of repeated infringement from 1000 to 2000 BGN. § 7. Article 215 is amended as follows: Art. 215. (1) Person suffering from contagious disease under art. 61, para. 1 or 3 as well as a carrier which refuses or does not comply with the mandatory isolation and/or treatment under art. 61, para. 4 or 5 is punished with a fine of 5000 BGN. (2) The persons under para. 1 refused to volunteer for isolation and treatment, as well as persons who do not comply with compulsory isolation, shall be brought by force with the assistance of the authorities of the Ministry of Interior at the request of the authorities of the state health control, the head of the hospital care facility or the doctor who directed the person to hospitalization. § 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 215a, para. 1 words.............................................................................. 63, para. This appropriation is intended to cover § 9. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 215b: Art. 215b. (1) Contact person of the person suffering from contagious disease under art. 61, para. 1 or 3 as well as a person entering the territory of the country from other countries who refuses or does not comply with the mandatory quarantine under art. 61, para. 6, is punished with a fine of 5000 BGN. (2) The persons under para. 1 that do not comply with the mandatory quarantine shall be brought by force with the assistance of the authorities of the Ministry of Interior at the request of the authorities of the state health control. § 10. Paragraph 1 of the Additional Provisions lays down t. 45, 46 and 47: 45. An emergency epidemic situation under art. 63, para. There is a disaster caused by a contagious disease which leads to an epidemic spread with immediate danger to the lives and health of citizens, the prevention and overcoming of which requires more than the usual activities of protecting and protecting the lives and health of citizens. 46. "Isolation" is an action for the separation of persons suffering from contagious disease under art. 61, para. 1 or 3 and of vectors to prevent the spread of relevant infectious diseases. 47. It is an action to separate contact persons from persons suffering from contagious disease under art. 61, para. 1 or 3 and persons entering the territory of the country from other countries in order to prevent the spread of relevant infectious diseases.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u69	Statements? Mr. Zarkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u70	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It is a matter of sanctions that we are discussing here too often. In fact, the sanctions remain as they were introduced very recently, i.e. 1000 BGN. a sanction for which you have violated or failed to comply with the measures introduced by the Minister of Health or Director of R &amp; R &amp; R &amp; R &amp; R &amp; R &amp; R &amp; R &amp; R &amp; R &amp; R, and 5000 BGN, for which a person already diagnosed with contagious disease does not comply with the measures. Just so you know, we had this debate exactly a month and a half ago and we came to these texts. Now the legislator does not know why he is trying to strengthen this role, perhaps to hear once again the people, but another penalty is introduced and this is for a contact person with an infectious disease who refuses to perform a mandatory quarantine and it will be fined with BGN 5000. Now who is a contact person and how to determine such a contact person, we have seen that it is not clear in the past weeks, when some relatives called and asked if I am quarantined, am I not quarantined and so on. That's a very vague wording. There's something else I'd like to tell you. In order for some sanctions to be effective, they must, firstly, be sustainable, i.e. do not change constantly uphill and, secondly, be inevitable. It's not the size of the penalty that's important, it's their inevitability. We don't need to constantly scare and explain how severe sanctions we're going to introduce. Much better people will hear us and will observe the schedules when they know that these schedules are logical, sustainable and well explained, and that when someone breaks, they will be fined for sure and will not be able to fix themselves as, unfortunately, is said in one way or another. There are also different definitions that I will not discuss were the subject of debates, but are quite imperfect and confirm our feeling that this law could not ultimately achieve that clarity and completeness, which was actually our common task.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u71	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. First, I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Iskren Veselinov, which the Commission does not support. 90 MPs voted: for 6, against 3, abstention 81. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the creation of new paragraphs 6 to 10 which the Commission proposes and supports. Vote 98 MPs: for 76, against 21, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u72	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. Proposal of MP Hamid Hamid Hamid: A new paragraph with the following content shall be set up in Transitional and Final Provisions: ....................................... The Health Insurance Act shall make the following additions: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 59, para. 13 sentence two after the word "controversial" is added to the relevant administrative court and a sentence third is created: The decision of the administrative court is subject to appeal before the Supreme Administrative Court, with the exception of the complaints against orders for imposition of financial penalties up to 2000 levs. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 76, para. 5 after the word "Appeal" is added to the court of administration concerned and a sentence is created second: "The decision of the administrative court is subject to appeal before the Supreme Administrative Court, except those of appeal against sanctions, representing financial penalties for up to 2000 BGN. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 76a, para. 4 after the word "Appeal" is added to the court of administration concerned and a sentence is created second: The decision of the administrative court is subject to appeal before the Supreme Administrative Court, with the exception of complaints against calls for reimbursements up to BGN 2000. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Mr. Hamid, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u74	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, in the Health Insurance Act, the text I proposed aims to introduce a restriction on the cassation appeal of cases of material interest below BGN 2000. It is directly related to the thousands, and perhaps already tens of thousands of complaints against sanctions imposed for unsaved measures during the state of emergency. The proposal is by analogy from the Tax Procedure Code, where for natural persons the amount is 700 BGN and for legal entities 4500 BGN. In its vast majority, colleagues, these fines imposed by sanctions are of very low value and they are subject to cases such as the Supreme Administrative Court and the Cassation Court. In the event that these cases are tens and perhaps hundreds of thousands a year, you will hardly find supreme judges who do not watch both instances at the same time. In some cases, five members have to be sought. Unfounded economic, it is financial to have a cassation appeal and two instances of the Supreme Administrative Court for fines of 20 or 50 BGN. It is simply not economically profitable, so I ask you to support my proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u75	Thank you, dear Mr. Hamid. - What's the line? I can't see. Colleagues, any other speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. First, I will put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the division supported by the Commission. They voted 116 MPs: 116, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Hamid Hamid Hamid, which the Commission does not support. They voted 119 MPs: 12, against 35, abstention 72. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Yordanov, come in for a statement on behalf of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u76	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Ministers! On May 12, the World Nurses' Day was celebrated officially since 1974 at the initiative of the International Council of Nurses. The date was chosen because May 12th was the birth date of an amazing woman who saved hundreds of lives and changed the idea of medical care. She is the national heroine of England and one of the 100 most influential personalities of all time. She often said: "Don't forget that we have come to this world to learn and to be useful to the people around us. " - She laid the foundations for the modern sorority work, organized a squad of nurses and made a real revolution in the service of wounded and sick soldiers during the Crimean War. Thanks to its established standards for the care of the wounded and patients of cholera and dysentery soldiers, the deaths in the infirmary fell from 42% to 4%. In 1910 Florence Nightingale offered an oath given by nurses similar to the Hippocratic by doctors. The nurses are our inalienable companions from birth to our last moment. There is no coincidence the maxim is that nurse care is as important to the patient as medical care, and we have to admit, in some cases more. We owe them so much! However, at the same time, we must acknowledge that we are debtors to their dedication, to their tireless work and to the care they give to us, to our children, to our families and to our loved ones. Therefore, instead of today the 30,000 army of Bulgarian nurses to celebrate their professional holiday, they are forced to organize a campaign with a subscription of 11,000. 806 signatures in support of their requests for the declaration of 1 March 2019 and for a change in the category of work of medical professionals. Dear colleagues, if we want to be sincere and responsible to nurses and show them our respect, we must urgently meet their professional demands, provide them with fair pay and improve their working conditions. We owe it to them because we want them to stay with us and be satisfied with their profession and not seek realization abroad. Once again, our angels in white, thank you for your care and dedication and happy professional celebration! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u77	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Moving on, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u78	Thank you, Madam President! Paragraph 3 "Instruction text'. Proposal of the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: § 3 The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposed by MP Hamid Hamid Hamid. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 11: ..................................................... In the Administrative Procedure Code (prom., SG No. ...) in art. Paragraph 181 is created. 5. The notice referred to in paragraph 1 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 and the definition under para. 4 are promulgated in the next issue
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u79	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u80	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Ministers! The Commission is partly in favour of my proposal because it is to drop only point. 1 of § 3, but not to drop the next point, because in my opinion, the definition of the importer for one-off legal action within the meaning of Article 3. 65 is quite precise and necessary in order to apply Art. 65. Art. 61, Art. 63, which we just voted on and accepted all. It concerns a single legal action, which is expressed in actions and omissions. This is usually the obligation that will possibly be present in the Minister of Health's orders, and inaction is the ban. In this case, I believe that this inaction may be within a certain time limit, it cannot be instantaneous, one-time. There is no obstacle to inaction being expressed in a ban that is within a period of time. Therefore, I ask you to leave this definition, it is really necessary with a view to applying art. Art. 61, Art. 63, because that's where we recorded that they were stepping on art. 73 of the AKK. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u81	Thank you, dear Mr. Hamid. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote, fellow Members. First, I vote on Mrs Cornelia Ninova's proposal and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 103 MPs: 32, against 52, abstention 19. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Mr Hamid's proposal in the part that is not supported because it is generally supported by your proposal, is that correct? [[Reply from MP Hamid Hamid.]] They voted 106 MPs: 12, against 5, abstention 89. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the version of § 3, which becomes § 11 of the Commission Report. They voted 113 MPs: 68 against 11, 34 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. It's a re-vote. Come in for a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u82	Madam President, I request a re-voting procedure. There were a lot of colleagues who came into the room and couldn't exercise their right to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u83	Colleagues, I am re-voting the version of § 3, which becomes § 11 of the Commission Report. They voted 132 MPs: for 85, against 11, abstention 36. The motion is accepted. Just one message to make, Mrs. Alexandrova. Colleagues, I'll give you half an hour off at 4:00. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u84	Paragraph 4 "Instruction text'. Proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of MP Hamid Hamid Hamid: In § 4 a new item is created. 3, by changing the numbering of the following points from 3 to 15, with the following content: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 of the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, the current text becomes para. 1 and the creation of para. 2 containing the following content: The Acts of the Minister of Health under art. 63 of the Health Act shall enter into force from the moment of their publication on the website of the Ministry of Health. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposed by MP Hamid Hamid Hamid. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the MP Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 1, 2 and 4, times t. 3 is reflected in § 39, 40 and 41 and does not support it under paragraph 1. 5. It's five o'clock. A new t. is created. 15: ..15. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 26: Art. 26 (1) The Ministry of Tourism shall provide tour operators using airlines with a Bulgarian operating licence for the implementation of charter flights to Bulgaria for the purpose of tourism, a State subsidy of 6 000 euros for each flight, within two years of the cancellation of the emergency situation announced by this law. (2) From subsidy under para. 1 tour operators may also benefit from the services of carriers with an operating licence issued by a country other than the Republic of Bulgaria, provided that the tour operator demonstrates the lack of interest in the performance of the specific flight by the air carriers with a Bulgarian operating licence. (3) The order for demonstrating a lack of interest to be performed by a carrier with a Bulgarian operating licence on a charter flight subject to this Article shall be determined by a sub-normal act of the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Proposal of the National Representative Alexander Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and group of MPs: The following amendments and additions shall be made in § 4: (a) To be created t. 3a: 3a. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6 the words "Until the state of emergency has been lifted" shall be replaced by "In the time of the emergency situation and two months after its cancellation." (b) To be created t. 14a: 14a. Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 26.. 33: Art. 26. The persons employed as at 13.03.2020 on a private sector employment contract who, as a result of the restrictive measures, benefit from unpaid leave receive a monthly subsidy in the amount of the minimum wage for the country and the social contributions due, through the National Insurance Institute, for each month of the period of emergency during which they were on unpaid leave not less than 15 working days. Art. 27. Self-employed as at 13.03.2020 persons who, as a result of the restrictive measures during the period of the emergency situation, cannot carry out the activities for which they are self-insured, shall be granted monthly subsidies in the amount of minimum wage for the country and the social security contributions due through the National Insurance Institute. Art. 28. (1) To overcome the consequences of the emergency situation and stabilize their financial situation, municipalities shall receive a transfer from the state budget of an additional 10% of the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2020. (2) By 31 December 2020, the municipal councils may assign to the mayors of municipalities requests to the Minister of Finance for financial support of the municipality in the form of interest-free loans from the central budget in connection with the implementation of the anti-epidemic measures in the territory of the country outside the limits of art. 103, para. 5 of the Public Finance Act. (3) Loans under para. 2 shall be provided under conditions and arrangements laid down by the Minister of Finance. (4) For loans under para. The requirements of Art. 2 shall not apply. Article 14 15 of the Municipal Debt Act. Art. 29. (1) For 2020 in the costs of the municipalities under art. 62, p. 3 of the Law on Local Taxes and Fees may also be included costs for implementing measures under art. 63 of the Health Act carried out in public use territories in settlements and settlements in the municipality. (2) The costs under para. 1 shall be provided by internal compensatory changes, without amending the method adopted by the municipal councils and the amount of the municipal waste charge. Art. 30. (1) During the emergency situation and until 31 December 2020, the accumulated funds under art. 60, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 64, para. 1 of the Waste Management Act can be spent to implement measures under art. 63 of the Health Act, as well as other activities relevant to human health. (2) The Minister of Finance shall issue instructions concerning the order and manner of application of para. 1. (3) Within the term under para. 1 municipalities shall not pay collateral under art. 60 and charges under art. 64 of the Waste Management Act. The revenue collected from the household waste levy may be used for expenditure to implement the necessary anti-epidemic measures. (4) Within the term of para. The provisions of Article 1 shall not apply. 60, para. Art. 6, Art. 8. 64, para. 8.. 10 of the Waste Act. Art. 31. (1) Until 31 December 2020, the transfer for winter maintenance and snow cleaning of municipal roads may be transformed into a transfer for other targeted costs of the municipality to carry out emergency repairs of municipal roads and streets and/or to implement anti-epidemic measures under art. 63 of the Health Act. (2) Within the budget relations of the municipality with the central budget arising from para. 1 changes are approved by the Minister of Finance on a proposal from the mayor of the municipality. Art. 32. (1) During the emergency situation and until 31 December 2020, temporarily free funds under the budget of the municipalities may be used to cover the financial shortfall resulting from the payment of expenditure and other payments, including payments which are subject to reimbursement from the State budget or from the accounts of the European Union, provided that the timely funding of the activities delegated by the State is not impaired at the level of those activities, as well as of local activities, and that the fiscal rules applicable to municipalities under the Public Finance Act shall not change the purpose of the funds at the end of the year. (2) The balance of unused funds from approved under the budgets of the municipalities in 2017, 2018 and 2019 may be spent on the implementation of anti-epidemic measures in the territory of the municipality under art. 63 of the Health Act under the terms and conditions laid down by the Minister of Finance. (3) By decision of the municipal council available transitional residues of funds under art. 129, para. 2 of the Public Finance Act can be spent to implement the anti-epidemic measures in the territory of the municipality under art. 63 of the Health Act, provided that the timely funding of the activities delegated by the State is not violated at their specified rates, as well as of local activities, and that the fiscal rules applicable to municipalities under the Public Finance Act are respected. Art. 33. Until 31 December 2020, there shall be no imposition of postures on the bank accounts of municipalities. (c) c. 15 b. The following amendments and additions shall be made to the creations § 51a: - the words "seven" and "seven" are replaced by "seven" and "seven" are replaced by "seven" and "seven" are replaced by "seven." - a sentence is created second: 28 s. 33 shall apply until 31 December 2020. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Valeri Simeonov, Christian Mitev and Boris Yachev. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 1, p. 5 is reflected in § 42 and does not support it in the rest: "2." A new t. is created. 14a: 14a. A new article shall be created. 26: Art. 26. (1) The Minister of Tourism or officials authorised by him shall issue vouchers for accommodation in classified or registered tourist sites in no less than seven days. Vouchers may only be used for domestic tourism within the meaning of § 1, item 1. 3 of the additional provisions of the Tourism Act, with their validity until 31.12.2021. One person has the right to receive one accommodation voucher. (2) Vouchers shall be issued to: 1. persons for whom insurance contributions have been paid to the Fund of the European Union for at least 12 months in the last 18 months and receive a salary of no more than the average monthly salary of employees under the employment or service for December 2019, according to data from the National Statistical Institute; 2. Director of an institution in the pre-school and school education system for carrying out children and school travel packages within the meaning of § 1, item 2. 80 of the additional provisions of the Tourism Act. (3) The vouchers by para. 2, p. 1 are worth 210 BGN and by para. 2, p. 2 - 100 leva. (4) The accommodation voucher shall contain: 1. number and date of issue; 2. the period of validity; 3. name, signature and stamp of the publisher, and when the voucher is in electronic form only the name of the publisher shall be indicated. (5) The voucher may be issued as an electronic document within the meaning of the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Certification Services and shall contain the required props under para. 3. (6) In order to obtain the electronic voucher, the eligible person is required to confirm its receipt by means of a reverse message notifying the receipt of the electronic message with a voucher attached in its electronic mailbox. In order to guarantee the authenticity of the origin and non-violentness of the content of the electronic voucher, the publisher creates appropriate protection of the file against changes. (7) For accommodation vouchers to be cremated, the owners must present them accompanied by a copy of the register for the accommodated tourists under art. 116, para. 1 of the Tourism Act, showing that the tourist had rested at least 7 days and used a voucher for accommodation. The Minister of Tourism or authorised officials shall cash the vouchers of owners of classified or registered tourist sites within seven days. (8) The terms and conditions for the issuance, use and cashing of the accommodation vouchers shall be carried out by a decree issued by the Minister of Tourism. 3. A new t. is created. 14b: "14b." A new article shall be created. 27: Art. 27. Within one year after the cancellation of the emergency situation, municipal councils may adopt decisions to reduce the amount of tourist tax or zero rate of the same. 4. A new t. is created. 14c: "14c." A new article shall be created. 28: Art. 28. In all grants for business support schemes, hotels, restaurants, tour operators and travel agents within the meaning of § 1, item 1 shall be used with priority. 56, t. 58, t. 60 and so on. 62 of the additional provisions of the Tourism Act. 6. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 15 new letters shall be , (i) A new paragraph shall be set up: ????????????????? The Minister of Tourism shall issue the ordinance under art. 27, para. 6 within one month of the entry into force of this law, (k) A new paragraph shall be set up: §... The issue of vouchers for accommodation under art. 27, para. 1 starts from the date of entry into force of the regulation under art. 27, para. 6................................................ Proposal of the National Representative Yavor Bojankov: In the transitional and final provisions of § 4, paragraph 4 is inserted. 14a: 14a. Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 26, 27 and 28: Art. 26. Persons whose activity is suspended or restricted as a result of measures to prevent and/or limit the spread of COVID-19 into the territory of the country provided for in an administrative or regulatory act shall contribute contributions due for the period from 13 March 2020 until the end of three months after the cancellation of the emergency situation, by 31.12.2020. Art. 27. Persons whose activity is suspended or restricted as a result of measures to prevent and/or limit the spread of COVID-19 in the territory of the country provided for in an administrative or regulatory act shall import value added tax due for the period from 13 March 2020 until the end of three months after the repeal of the emergency situation by 31.12.2020. Art. 28. The persons whose activity is suspended or limited as a result of the measures to prevent and/or limit the spread of COVID-19 within the territory of the country provided for in an administrative or regulatory act shall pay the local taxes and charges due for 2020 by 31.12.2020. Municipal Councils shall, within one month, align the regulations under art. 9 of ZMDT. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposed by MP Hamid Hamid Hamid. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal, which is reflected in a new § 13. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the MP Maria Belova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Desislava Atanasova under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Alexander Ivanov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Hristian Mitev under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4, which shall become § 12: ................................................................................... In the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020. (prom., D.V., No. 28 of 2020; amended, No. 34 and 38 from 2020), the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In the name of the law, the final addition is to overcome the consequences. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1 finally added to address the consequences after the cancellation of the emergency situation. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) paragraph 1 is amended as follows: Within two months of the cancellation of the emergency situation against natural persons, all declared public sales and deposits in possession declared by the state and private contractors shall be suspended and rescheduled and no charges and charges shall be due. At the request of the natural person made before the expiry of the period referred to in the first sentence, the public sale, respectively, of the units in possession, shall be rescheduled and no charges and charges shall be due. (b) in para. 2 in the beginning is added "At the time of the emergency situation and two months after its cancellation " and a sentence is created second: "No bank accounts of municipalities need to be stashed two months after the cancellation of the emergency situation. (c) in para. 4 the words "Restricted' shall be replaced by "Until the state of emergency has been lifted'. 4. Article 6 is amended as follows: Art. 6. Within two months of the cancellation of the emergency situation in case of late payment of liabilities to private entities, debtors under credit agreements and other forms of funding provided by financial institutions under art. 3 of the Credit Institutions Act, with the exception of the subsidiaries of banks, including where the claims are acquired by banks, financial institutions or third parties, no interest shall be charged for delays and penalties, the obligation cannot be declared early due and the contract cannot be broken down due to default. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6a all over the world, the words "Until the state of emergency has been lifted" shall be replaced by "During the state of emergency and two months after its cancellation." 6. Article 6b is amended as follows: Art. 6b. (1) During the state of emergency and two months after its cancellation, the ministers, governors of the district and the managers of other offices renting or using State property, or the municipal councils renting or using property, may adopt decisions, respectively, to issue orders to reduce the amount of rent and use contributions or to exempt them in full or in part from their payment by natural or legal persons, tenants or users who have restricted or suspended their activities in the property as a result of the measures and restrictions imposed during the emergency situation. (2) The circumstances of para. 1 shall be established by financial and other documents certifying the limitation or cessation of the activities of natural and legal persons.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 11 the words "until the emergency situation is lifted' shall be replaced by "at the time of the emergency situation and two months after its cancellation'. 8. Article 12 is amended as follows: Art. 12. (1) The requirements for receiving monthly social benefits under art. 2, para. 4 of the Social Assistance Act shall not apply until 30 September 2020. At the discretion of the mayors of municipalities, if proven necessary, the provision of art. 2, para. 4 t. 1 of the Social Assistance Act in the part concerning community service only for carrying out disinfection, subject to the relevant health-hygienic requirements. (2) The requirements for receiving monthly family benefits under art. 7, para. 1, t. Article 5 (2) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 establishing a common organisation of the markets in agricultural products and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1290/2005 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 965). 8, para. 1, t. Art. 4 and art. 8f, para. 1, t. 6 of the Children's Family Aid Act shall not apply until 30 September 2020. (3) The period of all monthly family benefits granted on the basis of art. Article 7 This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. (4) The time limits referred to in art. 8c, para. Art. 5 and art. 12, para. 1, t. 1.. 7, para. 2 and 3 of the Family Aid Act for children, which expire after 1 March 2020, are hereby extended in a professional capacity until 31 December 2020. (5) The period of the notification obligation in the event of a change in the circumstances of art. 10, para. 2 of the Children's Family Aid Act, which expires from 1 March 2020 to 31 May 2020, shall be extended in a professional capacity until 30 June 2020, unless the change of circumstances results in the withdrawal of the right of the aid concerned. (6) The periods of validity of the orders issued for accommodation in specialized institutions and social services in the community of resident type delegated by the State activities and local activities which expire after 1 March 2020 shall be extended by service until 31 December 2020. (7) By 31 August 2020, the Executive Director of the Agency for Social Assistance and the Mayors of Municipalities shall not be entitled, due to the lack of users, to close or reduce the capacity of social services delegated by the State activities and local activities, with the exception of specialised institutions for children. (8) Fees for the use of social services Center for Social Rehabilitation and Integration, Center for Temporary Accommodation, Mother and Baby Unit and Day Centre, including in case of weekly service when delegated by the State activities, shall not be paid by persons for the period from 13 March 2020 to 31 August 2020. 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 in the text before t. 1 at the beginning is added (b) A new para shall be created. 2: The provisions of the Public Procurement Act shall not apply two months after the cancellation of the emergency situation and for transport services in the cases under para. 1, t. 1 and 2. c) the current para. 2 becomes para. 3 and in it, the words "the duration of the emergency situation' shall be replaced by "two months after the emergency situation has been lifted'. 10. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15a the words "Until the emergency situation has been lifted" shall be replaced by "During the state of emergency and two months after its cancellation" and after the words "extraordinary situation" shall be added two months after its cancellation. 11. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 words "Until the emergency situation is lifted" shall be replaced by "During the state of emergency and two months after its cancellation" and shall be added "to ensure sufficient quantities of medicinal products to meet the health needs of the population of the Republic of Bulgaria." 12. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 16a, para. 1 the words "Until the state of emergency has been lifted' shall be replaced by "Until 31 December 2020'. 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 1 after the word "freedom" shall be added up to two months after the cancellation of the emergency situation. (b) in para. The second sentence of the second sentence of the words after the cancellation of the emergency situation shall be replaced by the two months following the cancellation of the emergency situation. 14. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) paragraph 1 is amended as follows: Until the end of the second academic period 2019/2020, the students' training recorded in a daily, evening, completed, individual and combined form of training and in a dual system of training as well as support for personal development shall be carried out as far as possible from a distance in an electronic environment by using the means of information and communication technologies. The training includes distance curricula, self-preparation, current feedback on the results of the training and evaluation. (b) New para. are created. 2? 4: After the cancellation of the emergency situation, the presence of children and students on the territory of institutions of the pre-school and school education system shall be allowed to carry out urgent activities on the completion of the academic year 2019/2020 and on the preparation of the school year 2020/2021, if it is impossible for these activities to take place from a distance in an electronic environment and/or the actual presence in school is required. (3) After the cancellation of the emergency situation the group presence of children and students in the territory of institutions from the pre-school and school education system outside the cases under para. 2 shall be allowed after notification to the Minister of Education and Science. (4) In the cases under para. 2 and 3 The director of the institution shall establish an organization for strict compliance with the prescribed measures by the Minister of Health, preventing the accumulation of children, students or their parents, and the presence of minors shall be done only after the consent of their parents. c) the current para. 2 " 4" became respectively. 7. 15. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) in para. 1 the words "Until the emergency situation has been lifted" shall be deleted; (b) A new para shall be created. 8. In a reasoned decision, the Head of the Managing Authority may terminate a grant procedure in order to ensure funding as appropriate to the need for measures and to address the consequences that have occurred. c) the current para. 8 becomes para. 9. 16. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 25 words shall be replaced by up to 12 months. 17. In the transitional and final provisions: (a) in §2: (aa) in para. 1 the words "in emergency conditions' shall be replaced by "at the time of the emergency situation'; (bb) in para. 2 in sentences first and second at the beginning is added (b) Paragraph 6, para. 1 the words " (d) During the period of application of this Act (d)'shall be replaced by " (e) For the period from 13 March 2020 to 30 June 2020'; (c) Paragraph 8, para. 2 the words "During the time of the act of this law" shall be replaced by "Until the state of emergency has been lifted." (d) in § 20, para. 1 the words shall expire during the period of validity of this Act and shall be replaced by the words expired during the emergency situation. (e) in § 21, the words (f) § 30, para. 1 and 4 the words "During the period of validity of this Act" shall be replaced by "During the state of emergency and two months after its cancellation." (g) in § 31, para. 2 the words "During the course of this law' shall be replaced by "During the state of emergency and two months after its cancellation'; (h) Paragraph 49b, para. 1 words "For the time of the emergency situation' shall be replaced by "Until 31 October 2020'; (i) in § 49c, the words "until the cancellation of the emergency situation' shall be replaced by "at the time of the emergency situation and two months after its cancellation'; (k) Paragraph 51a and 51b shall be created: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. The provisions of art. 7, 8, 9, 10, 14, 17, 18, 19, 21 and 22 shall apply during the emergency situation and two months after its cancellation. § 51b. State and local authorities within their jurisdiction shall provide clarification on the application of the law which they declare publicly. (l) in § 52, the words
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Colleagues, you have a say in this. Mr. Tsonev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u86	Thank you, Madam President. In this paragraph, the fourth, which is extremely long and diverse, with many proposals in different directions, I would like to highlight you on one of these proposals, namely the MP Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. It is located on page 27 of the Report. 15 concerning the creation of a new art. 26. That's t. 5: A new item is being created. 15: 15. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 26. " Am I Correct?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u87	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u88	Okay. Here it is proposed that the Ministry of Tourism grant a subsidy for the implementation of charter flights to Bulgaria, of course, which carry tourists, foreign tourists for the Bulgarian tourist complexes, Bulgarian tourist sites. I would like to focus on this proposal because the DPS parliamentary group will support it. In this regard, firstly, I am making a procedural proposal, Madam President, to vote separately on the proposals made by the MP Iskren Veselinov, because this proposal is not supported by the Commission, but we want it to be voted separately in this House.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u89	Everyone so far, and the fifth will be voted on separately.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u90	Yes, this should be voted separately in the Chamber. This one first. Secondly, I will also make an editorial amendment to this proposal, but first, to justify myself. Honourable Members, indeed one of the most affected sectors is tourism. This is beyond doubt, not only in our country, but in all tourist destinations, there is even doubt whether there will be a tourist season at all. But hopefully, at least in the second half, it will happen. I have been watching with interest over the past month trying to find a tool to support tourism, and I am so slightly surprised, as a tool, the most serious instrument to support tourism is this. And I'll tell you why. Firstly, this is an instrument that is already used in tourist destinations which are competitive in Bulgarian tourism. I mean tourism in Turkey and Greece. These are two tourist destinations, which, in addition to being geographically next to us, are, for the most part,... except for some high segments of Greek and Turkish tourism, are below our price level. So this is the competition that we have to take into account. Turkey has been subsidising charter flights for years. Of course, it is not a member of the European Union and can afford such State aid. However, the measures that are characterised as State aid are now much more flexible. I would like to tell you that Greece is already taking advantage of the flexibility of these measures, and from this season it will subsidise transfers for tourists to Greece. So we are obliged to support this measure. Moreover, it has a much more comprehensive economic effect than support for tourism alone and directly. First of all, it will support five Bulgarian service providers. This is how much we have in Bulgaria, licensed in Bulgaria. As you know, the second most likely affected sector is air transport. Planes are literally grounded all over the world. The Bulgarian charter air transport needs to be supported. So here with one bullet hit each other, literally speaking in folk language, two birds support tourism and support the airline sector. However, it also has a multiplier effect on other sectors concerned, such as restaurants. More tourists means that the restaurant industry and all others related to tourism are directly supported. So I suggest, honourable Members, that we reflect on the ruling majority and support this proposal by my colleague Iskren Veselinov, because it is really reasonable and this is practice already, as we have seen, in very highly developed tourist countries. However, what I would like to do as an editorial proposal, in para. 1 is provided for a subsidy of 6 thousand. Euros on each flight. That's not very accurate.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u91	In the text where it is.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u92	Yeah, in the text. I'll introduce you, I've prepared the text of the editorial proposal. This is not very accurate because in many charter flights, when seats are available, citizens who use this for transport not for tourist purposes are also picked up. So to subsidize the entire flight is not very correct. That is why we will use another tool, and it is used precisely in the countries for which I said I'll read the text first and then I'll give it to you. "Alinea 1" to acquire the following content. 1 of the article in question. 26, t. 15 The tourism ministry provides to tour operators who use airlines with a Bulgarian operating licence for the execution of charter flights to Bulgaria for tourism purposes, a state subsidy of 35 euros for each seat of the maximum passenger capacity of the aircraft for each flight filled with Bulgarian air carriers. The subsidy is granted only for flights with a capacity of not less than 100 seats.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u93	You've come a long way in time. You've come a long way in time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u94	For a statement? I apologize.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u95	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u96	I wanted to introduce it a little more arguably. I'm done. 2 and 3 specify that they may be foreign operators, but when the Bulgarian capacity is exhausted. And instructions are given on how to do that. Here you are, Madam President. [[Gives the offer.]] I hope that the proposal of my colleague Iskren Veselinov will be supported, which we support, with our editorial amendments.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u97	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. - What's the line? I can't see. A statement? Mr. Angelov. Then Mr. Prodanov, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u98	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Madam Minister! This proposal of Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs was made to support charter flights. We really thought it important to find a common solution and all political parties in the Bulgarian Parliament to support it. It is important to support that more foreign tourists have the opportunity, when the pandemic ends, to visit Bulgaria and thus support the Bulgarian aviation business, to support the Bulgarian tourism business as well. So the proposal that we made for each of these charter flights is 6 thousand. EUR, we also agree with the editing that Mr. Tsonev proposed to be 35 euros per seat, and that of a person who actually uses tourist rather than another service. So we are glad that both the political leadership of GERB and the prime minister supported this proposal. It has been announced to the media today, as well as other of our proposals related to VAT on tourism and restaurant services. So we really hope that all the political forces in the Bulgarian Parliament will support this measure and that it will be a fact with the editorial that Mr. Tsonev made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u99	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. It is very complicated because it is an unsupported proposal that is not in the main text. Mr. Tsonev is making a change in text that is not supported. I'll put it to the vote. He's unsupported and we'll vote him separately. Here you are, Mr. Prodanov, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u100	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, Members of the National Assembly! I will address the proposals for measures in tourism. First, concerning the extension of the deadline in order to allow tour operators within one year to recover the amounts they have received from their customers. In short, what is the problem for colleagues who are not in the subject? As a result of the emergency situation that came suddenly, the tour operators fell into a very delicate situation. What do I mean? Tour operators had received advance payments for excursions from their customers. At the same time, when they were unable to perform these excursions, a large number of their clients began to require those funds that had been prepaid for their excursions to be reimbursed to them. At the same time, however, when the tour operators received these funds, they made payments to foreign hotels, airlines and so on. In fact, the money they have received from consumers is not located in the tour operators themselves, because, as I said, they have prepaid the reservation for their customers' holidays and in reality in this situation they do not have the resources to be able to repay them. According to the estimates of the tour operators, it is about 250 million. BGN, which is a pretty serious amount. Many customers agree to receive vouchers in order to postpone this rest for a later period when the emergency situation is over, but there are also those who do not agree with it. From this point of view, if there is no interference, here we are in danger of really a large part of the tour operators going bankrupt, and when they go bankrupt, they risk a large part of the customers not getting the money they have paid for their excursions. So from this point of view, the BSP parliamentary group supports this proposal. However, we are a legislative body, and we must always make maximum efforts to protect the interests of all the parties concerned. With this proposal, we certainly support tour operators, but at the same time we must also think about consumers who are somewhat worried about the bankruptcy of a tour operator and that he cannot receive his money. That is precisely why, Madam Minister, we call for you to consider some kind of fund, some sort of guarantee fund to be taken over by the state. You are the people who know what the financial situation is and what the financial opportunities are so that there is a guarantee fund to guarantee consumers that they will still get that money, even if, God forbid, some tour operator fails. I can tell you where to find that money that's not extra. Last year we voted on some 15 million, which were on the central budget of the Council of Ministers, which were for additional advertising in tourism. There are 5 million that are set for the participation of the Ministry of Tourism in international tourist exhibitions, which due to the situation cannot be implemented. Here is a sum of 20 million that have been voted in this year's budget and can be used in connection with such a guarantee fund so that both tour operators and their customers are calm. About the issue of vouchers. You know, colleagues, if you do not know, I will remind you of three consecutive years when we accept the state budget, from the BSP parliamentary group we have offered vouchers for tourism. So we, as a consistent parliamentary group, even though this is your proposal, will support it because we believe that it is really useful and helps the development of Bulgarian tourism. On the proposals for amendments to the Black Sea Coast Act and a half reduction in concession fees of concessionaires or tenants on sea beaches this year. We support this proposal because this has been our consistent position in the years, only that we want the following to be recorded here, because until now the concession fees are allocated to the local municipality 50%, 10% for the regional governor and 40% for the state, we want the 50% that will be deducted from the fees of the concessionaires, to be charged to the State and to the regional governor, and those 50% that remain to the municipalities. In the seaside municipalities, about 1/3 of their own revenues are generated by these concession fees, so they rely very much on them and we should not leave at their expense to pay those 50%, which, possibly, we can reduce in concession fees for this year.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u101	The weather, Mr. Prodanov. Get it over with.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u102	Two more sentences. Regarding the proposal for municipal councils to take decisions to reduce and eliminate tourist charges, this is exactly what I said should not be at the expense of municipalities. Madam President, let me finish.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u103	Yeah, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u104	Regarding Mr. Veselinov's proposal and which commented Mr. Yordan Tsonev. The BSP's opinion is the same as Mr. Tsonev's here we do not aim to bring to Bulgaria airplanes, we aim to bring tourists. For this reason the subsidy must be on a seat or on a tourist, because otherwise I see how you thought it was a 200-seat plane of 30 euros per tourist is 6 thousand. Euros. Yeah, but what if the plane's half full, so what if the tourists are 100? So we're looking for tourists, not planes. We would therefore support this proposal with the changes made by Mr. Tsonev, because this is normal and this is the working proposal. It has been applied in Turkey, in Serbia for many years, which was not possible for us as a member of the European Union. This was unfair competition, and we must now make use of this measure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u105	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u106	Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to make an addition, as there is an alternative. Indeed, the Bulgarian state should support the business and development of tourism, but come in, colleagues, to see what the German state is doing. Supporting Lufthansa, the German state has made a decision and is currently negotiating to give money to Lufthansa against shares, and the German state becomes the owner of part of Lufthansa's shares. In future, these shares will bring budget revenue or when the company stabilizes, as they have done in other cases, they can sell the shares back on the market. So there is an alternative here that has not been discussed, Madam President, as these texts have only been discussed in the Legal Committee. If they had also come to the Budget and Economic Commission, where they belong, then we could have proposed other alternative solutions. And I don't think the German government is more naive than the Bulgarian government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u107	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Just to remind you that we are working on a decision on the work of the National Assembly in a state of emergency and we are distributing the laws in just one committee, which has been adopted until tomorrow when the emergency situation expires. Mr. Prodanov, will you do the back?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u108	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Professor Gechev, what you have said is indeed a serious political conversation. We at BSP have not once and twice repeated our understanding that the role of the state should be particularly strong, especially in such crisis situations, but I am pessimistic. In this political configuration of the current National Assembly, this conversation is impossible or rather impossible to reach political agreement in this regard. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u109	Thank you, dear Mr. Prodanov. Colleagues, Mr. Bojankov, Mr. Gokov and Mrs. Yankova signed up for a speech, but because I announced it, let's take a half hour off. [[Reply from OP.]] Yes, Mrs. Tsvetkova is after Mr. Bojankov and then Mr. Gokov. I'll keep recording for speeches and after the break. Half-hour break at 4:35 p.m. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u110	Please invite the Quaestors to the House. So far, Mr. Bojankov, Mrs. Tsvetkova and Mr. Gokov signed up for the speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u111	And Mrs. Dora Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u112	And Mrs. Yankova. I'll keep recording. Just so you know the order. Let's wait for the coworkers to enter the room. Mr. Bojankov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u113	Madam President, honourable Members! I hope we all agree that the crisis is competition and non-market measures, which until yesterday have been unthinkable, have become a norm today. Depending on what different countries apply to their economy, after the crisis, some will come out competitively and better than others. In this regard, I also analyzed, thanks to the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, what measures are being implemented in different countries, especially in the Bulgarian economies, such as Serbia, Croatia, Slovenia, Estonia. The Bulgarian government has proposed working measures such as 60/40, loans, but they are working for the sectors, which, despite the reduced volumes, have maintained their activity. For closed sectors, these measures are not working and that is not my opinion, it is the opinion of professional guilds. As they are stopped entirely by the Minister's order, but continue to pay costs for the waste fee, insurance and so on their liquidity is greatly reduced. And my proposal is in this direction: to pour liquidity without, however, making any gifts, without damage to the budget, without any damage in Bulgaria. My proposal is this: the persons whose activity has ceased to be able to retain the payment of insurance contributions for three months after the emergency situation has been lifted and to repay these obligations by the end of the year. Such a measure has worked since the start of the emergency situation in a country like Serbia.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u114	Are you making an editorial amendment or a statement?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u115	I'm speaking, Madam President. In addition, persons whose activity has ceased may not pay VAT to the State for three months and do so by the end of the year. This will give huge resources and liquidity in the sector as affected, such as the restaurant industry. A neighbouring Greece, which has reduced its VAT from 12 to 9%, has also postponed payment by several months precisely in order to pour liquidity into the sector. With regard to local taxes and fees, once again I give for example the restaurants, they did not work, but continued to pay garbage tax without taking out trash. It doesn't make sense. It's not fair. That is why my proposal is in this direction, and I stress that it does not damage the budget, and I hope it will be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u116	Thank you, dear Mr. Bojankov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mrs. Tsvetkova, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u117	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I would like to base on IMRO's proposal to extend the period within which tour operators will recover the amounts of their customers who have prepaid them for travel trips that have already been cancelled. Tour operators and travel agencies were forced to cease their activities with the announcement of the state of emergency on 13 March and with a view to the global crisis related to COVID-19. This has led to the postponement of much of the travel. In fact, the huge problem facing tour operators at the moment is precisely the recovery of the funds of customers who have not made their cancelled trips. However, customers' funds have already been paid by the Bulgarian tour operators to their travel partners in the country or abroad, hotels, airlines or other carriers that carry out land or sea transport. In order to repay the advance payments to their customers, they must first receive them from their foreign counterparties, which, however, have made vital decisions on their survival............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... And these proposals of their foreign counterparties are supported institutionally by their countries and governments. We believe that the two-month period proposed by an importer at first reading in order to reimburse precisely those sums to customers who prepaid transport trips is too short and would lead to bankruptcy a very large part of the tour operators. They will not be able to generate these revenues so that they can recover their customers' amounts. Many tour operators who will be forced to go bankrupt will actually transfer these obligations to the insurance companies, who will also hardly be able to handle it. Thus, a large proportion of customers are risking losing these prepaid travel amounts forever. That is why we propose that the deadline for the reimbursement of the prepaid amounts for excursions and travel trips be 12 months from the date of the cancellation of the emergency situation, which applies to those customers who do not want to take advantage of the possibility of using a voucher or to be otherwise compensated for these prepaid trips. The extension of the deadline will not only cost nothing to the budget, but will also save millions to the state, because many companies will be saved, jobs will be saved and subsequent mass lawsuits will be avoided. Since the Law concerns travels cancelled due to the declared state of emergency, we propose in art. 25 to be added either because of the measures imposed to address the consequences after its cancellation. To conclude, I would like to say that we believe that this period of 12 months for the reimbursement of the amounts of customers from tour operators is good and will prevent the closing of businesses and bankruptes, and will guarantee the sums of thousands of Bulgarian citizens who have paid them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u118	Thank you, dear Mrs. Tsvetkova. - What's the line? I can't see. For your statement, Mr. Gokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u119	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Madame Minister! Madam Minister, it won't be for tourism, you'll excuse me. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The medical problem with the virus I will not comment on is neither my job, but I believe that not exactly the virus, but the consequences of the restrictive measures that we took along the virus have had a very serious economic impact on the companies in Bulgaria, the business in Bulgaria. And the business, due to a decrease in the volume of work, or because of restrictive measures, had to deal with the staff working with it. They have dealt with it in several ways. Most of them put their employees on forced leave. I mean paid forced leave, which we even allowed them through the Emergency Measures Act. This is nothing wrong, but there has also come to extremes in paid leave, but nevertheless those people who went on paid leave have some income in this period. The other action that employers have taken is to put most of their staff on unpaid leave. The third species released are released by mutual agreement. They are also wronged because they are not entitled and cannot receive full compensation. And the next release has been made redundant because of a reduction in the volume of work or for some other reason, but these people can register at the employment offices and receive the corresponding compensation for how long they have been provided, how much they have been provided. There, since the procedure is more complicated, perhaps you should intervene the Labour Inspection and make some statistics or study how many of them the notice periods have been met, whether the notices have been paid and so on. The question that we are putting here to decide with our proposal is for people who have gone on unpaid leave, employers have put them on unpaid leave. I think that if the average salary in Bulgaria is about 1000 BGN, in a year these people receive 12 thousand. lv. And we, when we deprive them for now two or three months, that's about a sixth of their annual income and that's going to put them in a very serious test. And given the Bulgarian statistics, observations on the incomes of the population, there was a survey by Eurostat, which came out in the media that one third of the Bulgarians are greatly difficult to pay their domestic bills... the household obligations for electricity, water, gas and so on. And now that these people have been put on unpaid leave by their employers, they have no savings to meet these costs. We therefore propose to employees on 13 March 2020 a private sector employment contract that, as a result of the restrictive measures, enjoy unpaid leave to receive a monthly subsidy in the amount of the minimum wage for the country and the social contributions due through the National Insurance Institute for each month of the period of emergency during which they were on unpaid leave at least 15 working days. I consider such compensation to these people to be fair, because this will help them not to fall into a position of extreme poverty and be able to stand on their feet. We offer the same to self-employed people because no matter how much we boast in the media, we have taken all the steps to compensate the people who are affected by the measures against the virus, there is no such action to them. In general, there are about 215 thousand self-insuring persons in Bulgaria, from which the statistics show that around 120 thousand are affected by these measures and must be supported. That's our other offer. Perhaps the question of where the money will come from for these aids. I say there is money because at the beginning the prime minister, the government announced that over 4 billion. lv. will be spent on overcoming the consequences of the coronavirus. So far, it's hardly been spent more than 10 million. BGN, so there are resources and could be accepted our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u120	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mrs. Yankova, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u121	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! From the very beginning of the emergency situation, during the very state of emergency and now two days before the expiry, preparing for the follow-up measures, we from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria and we have always raised the question about the Bulgarian municipalities about the state in which they fell, implementing a decision of parliament and, accordingly, being on the front in the state of emergency. But since you were more skeptical at the very beginning, I would now like to tell you a few figures, honourable Members. For the whole period there is a serious reduction in the introduction of local taxes and fees and the decline in own revenues for March and April compared to the rates of previous years for large municipalities is over 75%, for district centres is from 40 to 65% decline, and for medium and small municipalities is from 20 to 45%. These are the general motives for our proposal. Nevertheless, municipalities continue to answer daily and take care of all public services for the local population in interaction with local businesses regarding most waste management commitments, maintenance of cleanliness in settlements, street lighting, problems arising from public transport, social services. You, I hope, are informed, are aware that a large group of people is about 36 thousand. individuals who are engaged in all that is on the front front, close to the people themselves, the municipalists themselves are dealing with it, but their own revenues are extremely important. If they, through the budget, through the activities delegated by the State, have funds for the maintenance, for the functioning of the municipality, for public services, this is another. These were unplanned expenses. We turn to you again to see our proposal under art. 28. This is about overcoming the consequences of the state of emergency. We turn again to think about Parliament and to decide on a 10% increase in the funds of the Bulgarian municipalities. Secondly, our proposal is similar to what the Association of Municipalities asked all the parliamentary groups to use a temporary interest-free loan and to make it easier for them to compensate for the activities they lack. Municipalities shall have the opportunity to make use of the accumulated savings and charges secured under the Waste Management Act, on the accounts of the Regional Environmental and Water Inspection and, respectively, the funds they have left from winter maintenance, to have the opportunity to use them for capital expenditure, as well as in budgetary relations. What we have specifically signed with surpluses, with remnants of past years, to have opportunities to spend it on internal affairs. And something that is shared by almost all the parliamentary groups not to have to hold back on bank accounts. Here I would like to address the President of Parliament and the President of the Commission, as we have made these proposals here, in § 4. In essence, honourable Members, they have been accepted. In essence, our proposal for a lien is contained in the proposal of the Commission under art. 12, t. Art. 3, Art. 5 point (b): No supports shall be imposed within two months of cancellation......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Say at least: since it is the opposition, it is generally accepted. After that, the proposal of colleague Alexander Ivanov was accepted and is signed with art. 38 and 39, which is the same as our proposal. The proposal of colleague Ivelina Vassileva, with one exception, is accepted that we want the funds for the environment this year to not be returned to the municipalities in regional inspections. The colleague Vassileva proposes that they be returned by December 31st, that is, there is a gap, for which I will turn to her to withdraw it and leave this money, or for the first time we have in parliament agreement on the issues of municipalities. Now don't even say it's on our initiative, just say it's a joint decision. But I would like to address you, Madam President of Parliament, and the President of the Commission, to make an editorial note to the Report: in the part of art. 28 in this proposal to record that the proposals are generally accepted and they are referred to in paragraph one-who, respectively described in this report and in the Law. Otherwise, it's not right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Please correctly write in the transcript, note Mrs. Yankova's remark. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Mrs. Jeleva, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u123	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable Members! I'll take into account the proposal we're making. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: Art. 14a is created. 26, concerning employees on 13 March of a private sector employment contract which, as a result of the restrictive measures, enjoy unpaid leave. We propose that they receive a minimum wage together with the insurance.. this is 725 BGN, the amount to be paid by the National Insurance Institute and they have used unpaid leave not less than 15 working days during the emergency situation. Why are we making this offer? In the Law on Measures, we have provided that employers do not have the right, without the consent of the worker, to release workers on unpaid leave. But what happens in reality? It happens that while employers were waiting for measures from the state, they preferred to persuade, or rather force, one part of the workers to go on a very large unpaid leave. We have reached the measures - what does the state offer as support? I can say that the measures that are being proposed are either briefing or just for the briefings, because, so far and today, measures are being proposed that cannot actually reach people. I'll start with the first one, maybe you'll say in a little while that it doesn't concern this text, but measure 60/40 might kind of work, but what happens? We have estimated a billion and a half for this measure, but up to now some 30 million have been spent, and perhaps no more than 100 million will be spent, and this will be for companies that actually only have a drop in their activities. And all companies that have ceased their activities cannot benefit from this measure. The next one is what you offered for the small companies that have ceased their activities, the so-called grants, the assistance that was supposed to start on May 11th, but it also collapsed. Companies will wait another one or two months if they can possibly benefit from something concrete. In third place, the loans. How many credits will be granted, we will finally see, but I think it will be a very small percentage, and people do not deserve to be helped by credit alone, because the situation is very difficult for them, especially for small enterprises for micro enterprises. I come to the one-time aid for parents who look after their children at home and have to take unpaid leave of absence. Why did I just say a measure of the briefing, a measure of thunder? Because at first, this measure had conditions that almost no one could take advantage of. A little later, this measure allegedly expanded its scope and the Ministry said that everyone would be able to benefit from the conditions they stated. However, it turns out that the instructions provided by the Ministry to the Agency for Social Assistance are quite different and once again a small part will be able to benefit. So, this measure, which you so much, every morning we hear Minister Sacheva say it's for those who are on unpaid leave, and it's working, it actually turns out that it isn't either. We are talking here, however, about something more useful, something more working and this is our proposal - all those who are on unpaid leave because parents deserve help - it must be much more significant. But what happens to those who have been forced to be on unpaid leave for two months? Moreover, the aid of 375 leva. The procedure started on May 5th "It is almost two months without any financial assistance for those people who had to stay home without zero income. The second member and our proposal for self-insuring persons. Similarly, a minimum wage for those self-insuring or self-employed persons. A few days ago, it was again loudly announced that self-employed, free artists could benefit from it. But why just them? Why is there another division of professions, division of people, division of groups in society? Only 1200 of these artists will be able to benefit from this help. Once again, the measures so made create chaos with the conditions and they cannot benefit. You are few in this House, fellow Members, but I urge you: make a point as to why you will not accept our proposal! Because it's an offer that will actually give them the benefit of the doubt. Only with a policy that is for loungers support is not good! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u124	Thank you, dear Mrs. Jeleva. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u125	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the Council of Ministers, honourable Members! I didn't get the right to a personal explanation a minute ago, but I think it's nice to note something to my fellow Members who spoke to the Bulgarian Socialist Party that we have repeatedly during the emergency situation and the last time we looked at the changes in the Emergency Act, if you're honest, reached a consensus on many of the texts. However, then again colleagues from your party went out and said that your proposals were not accepted, when by meaning and content a large part came out as common texts of the Bulgarian Parliament and I think it was the right thing to do. And now to comment on this tribune that really proposals that are in line with the proposals of the Bulgarian Association of Municipalities and have been adopted in particular, further in the texts have their content and have been reflected in the legislative initiative which I have implemented... However, especially in the proposal contained in this paragraph, let us note, my fellow Members, I stand in defence of my proposal, which I am pleased that it is supported by the Commission and to point out why I think it is important. Because we succeeded with the previous law during the emergency situation and the measures in it to protect the Bulgarian citizens and those in a position to be unable to serve their loans or are indebted to private judicial contractors have such decisions to be implemented, we postponed this until the end of the emergency. With my proposal, supported by the majority, I suppose, and by everyone in the Chamber, I hope afterwards, to give Bulgarian citizens a breath of air two months after the end of the emergency situation cannot be carried out in and out of private judicial proceedings against individuals. Bulgarian citizens think that they deserve this breath of air by allowing myself to make my proposal the conditional opportunity that indebted persons who have the explicit desire to carry out or finish, so to speak, to find measures to complete their duties, to carry out this procedure by private judicial contractors, to do so with their express written consent without due additional fees and services. Therefore, colleagues, I ask you to fully support this text and to continue this law really with the adoption of the full text, because I think it is extremely important for Bulgarian citizens and businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u126	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? I won't. Statements? Mr. Simeonov made a statement, then Mrs. Klisurska, then Mr. Milev and Mr. Stoinev. Here you go, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u127	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! On this point in the submitted bill, I would like to comment on this proposal of ours, which was largely satisfied. Thanks to colleagues from GERB for understanding. In one part, it was not satisfied, but anyway, our proposal on this paragraph is primarily aimed at helping the most severely damaged by the coronavirus economic sector, and this is precisely tourism. With a series of proposals, we have tried to create conditions for stimulating the recovery of this industry, the word is not exactly.................................. as at the moment, as I said at this time, it is literally not working, and it is because of state decisions............................................... First of all, I would like to express my satisfaction that both with the Ministry of Tourism and with colleagues from GERB, I hope also with colleagues from the opposition, we have found a common solution for reducing, dramatically reducing the cost of umbrellas, the sunbeds and the tables - these are the beach accessories, and at this moment as a result of the talks we have also beneficiaries and tenants of beaches that will provide this service against zero leva. Zero leva! In view of the different types of concession, the different types of payments and the stages at which each of the individual concessions and rentals is allowed to maximum value of the beach accessories up to 50% of the claims in concession contracts or in the rental contracts, which means that on the Bulgarian Black Sea coast this year the price of the beach accessories will be either zero or will hesitate somewhere between BGN 1.50. to about BGN 3.50. approximately. In our view, this is a very good measure, an attractive measure, which, hopefully, will give impetus and from the moment of the release of the restrictive measures related to the use of beaches, will give the opportunity to match the good weather in the summer, our beaches will be extremely attractive and affordable, at low prices, what has so far been very seriously hindering the development of domestic tourism, as you know that our compatriots preferred free supplies and the free sea along the Greek coast, somewhat in Turkish rather than Bulgarian. So our goal is with this measure, as well as with the next ones I will share, it is shocking to restore and actively enable Bulgarian tourism to work at high speed from the very beginning. Of course, this requires prior preparatory measures, as are these proposals. The other thing that was also accepted was the extension of the construction period on the Black Sea to the extent that it exists, naturally, until 15 June. I know there will be objections to this by pseudo-green eco-organizations in Bulgaria, but this is a measure that will in no way prevent tourism, as there is none and it does not appear to have until mid-June. So far, the legal measure for the national resorts I am speaking specifically was May 15th, now we extend it to June 15th. This is in no way going to damage the rest of the holidayers, because there is not supposed to be any. The other measure, which was adopted, is the extension of the deadline for reimbursement of the funds paid by the tour operators by the tour operators to the service users. This is also a resonant measure, as the proposed period of two months has so far been absolutely insufficient. Tourist companies have made their own expenses and they, in order to be able to return money, must have the opportunity, so to say, figure one more season, which will happen if this measure is supported, I hope it will be supported, for 12 months, by preserving the rights of consumers to use the voucher allocated, and not to claim their funds if they want to get their money back. This will happen, as I said, so as not to ruin, not to lead to the bankruptcy of the tour operators. The next measure, which was partly adopted, for which I thank GERB again, and will try to be brief, this is the use of coupons with the foreign vouchers, in Bulgaria for paying their social contributions. Basically, this measure will be applied to the people who were on the front front in the fight against the epidemic. These are police officers, these are medical staff who are described, you will see them in our proposal, which we will do not now, but in the VAT Act, to look carefully at the texts. And finally, of course, the old struggle with very serious bowing and contradictions.. the adoption of a 9 percent tax. I think this is resonant, I think it is a levelling with hotel services, which is quite natural, because the same tourist service operator offers at two different rates of services in its hotel.. Some 9% in the hotel area, and 20% in the restaurant area. So once again, I hope that these measures will be supported as extremely necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u128	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. - What's the line? Line, Mr. Stoynev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u129	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Simeonov, we can't help but admire in the end when it comes to such a particular sector when there is understanding and similar measures are taken. But see what we from parliament will look like when we are in the news tonight. The sunbeds and umbrellas, dear Bulgarian citizens, are free! You will already have vouchers, which we do not yet know how many will be.. Maybe 210 BGN, maybe 250 BGN. Everyone rest on the Bulgarian Black Sea coast! However, at the same time, Mr. Simeonov, what are the specific measures to help people reach the Bulgarian Black Sea coast? And will these people have the opportunity to reach the Bulgarian Black Sea coast? Because at the end of the day we are going to have a loan of BGN 4500 so that people can take it, go to the Bulgarian Black Sea coast and then return it for years. I am not saying that I do not support what you are proposing, on the contrary, I say that for this sector, which I would say is an industry that is about 15% of gross domestic product is generated by tourism, but we should have a much more sustainable analysis, we should have much more sustainable support for Bulgarian citizens, because at the moment, colleagues, we are deciding and doing a measure per piece! And I may then have the opportunity to argue about what we're proposing, but in the end you're offering something for these people... Someone might even say, "Okay, what are they offering me if I don't know if I can go there?"! Zero leva umbrella, zero leva sunbed even if I remember, this was recorded in May in the program of the Political Party GERB. Good thing it's the crisis to implement this measure, or maybe it's a good thing that you are, too, to give them a clue as to how to do it. But look, these are measures per piece, measures that will not lead to satisfaction, to calmness of Bulgarian citizens, because here it is important to preserve the potential for economic growth and this is the human resource! Take steps to show how you will preserve and develop human resources! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u130	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Second line? Here you go, Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u131	Thank you, Madam President! Dear ministers, dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Simeonov, in connection with the announcement you made about vouchers and understanding between you and GERB, in my previous speech I said that the topic of vouchers we have offered it for the last three years, so we will support you in this proposal for vouchers. But I would like to draw attention to you, as you have made an announcement that you will propose this with changes in some of the tax laws. I think you said, in relation to the amount of the voucher. Why?! Because as far as I understand it, your offer is BGN 210, right? In my opinion, you have made some kind of account: seven nights per 30 leva. So about a week to help these vouchers. But let us not forget that no one goes alone to the sea or to a mountain or to a holiday. People usually go with their family. So maybe you should think a little bit about the value of the voucher itself to be a little higher. You have to do this because you're at the station. You know what the financial resources we have so that this value of vouchers is a little bit larger so that a three- or four-member family can go on this holiday. Accordingly, these calculations that we have made for the coverage of the first-line people by the medical staff and uniforms in the Ministry of Interior are within about 50 thousand, which with a three-four-member family this measure will cover about 200,000 Bulgarians. So I said, "We support this measure, but we urge you to optimize a little bit, increase the amount, so that indeed all who benefit from this measure can actually benefit from their families' goals, because I think it is right and right. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u132	Thank you, dear Mr. Prodanov. Another line? I won't. Mr. Simeonov, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u133	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! First of Mr. Stoynev: the price is 210 BGN because I was under the impression that you are not aware of the price. According to Mr. Prodanov, she's small. But when we did our calculations, we did them on a base of 2,700,000 people socially insured, with regularly imported insurance plus 700,000 from the education sector. At the time, there was a pretty serious amount of over half a billion. I accept your proposal, Mr. Prodanov, and we will discuss you also have the right to offer an amount. Given that this measure is quite limited, it can be considered the amount, although it is still a price for a lower star hotel, accommodation of the kind of guest house, family hotel one to two stars. In the order of 30 leva is the accommodation. Somewhere in these prices you have to have breakfast, but sometimes you come in and dinner. For a family, it's £420. I mean, it's something. On the other hand, there is nothing wrong with everyone reaching in and adding some other lev for some extra service.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u134	If he has a place to reach!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u135	From Mr. Pawnov's line, I hear support from Mr. Stoinev's thesis that there is no one to go to the beach. I don't think that the crisis with all its negatives has caused such an irreversible and severe defeat on the financial capabilities of the average Bulgarian I am talking about the average Bulgarian that we can be sure that he will not have money for the beach. However, let us not forget that the same average Bulgarian formed a queue from Blagoevgrad to the Tower for every three days off to go to the Greek coast, to the Greek beach. There are also a lot of industries, and a lot of sectors of the economy that work there are those that work with several times more turnover. Let us give this opportunity, which is actually aimed at supporting tourism, supporting domestic tourism. Here, as Mr. Prodanov said, we are talking about several tens of thousands of people, with their families, say, 150. After all, that's something! Better a pigeon in the hand, Mr. Stoinev than an eagle in the sky. That's what we're doing. That's what we're doing. With your support, of course, I hope so. With regard to the measures per piece, I would remind you that at some point in time I have exercised another position, and I have also been responsible for tourism. I don't think the measurements are in pieces. Unfortunately, they weren't fully accepted. We have proposed nine measures so far two and two others have been adopted, but partly. Again, I'm grateful to what we're accomplishing, because this will be real help. [[the President signals that time has run out]] The rest is general talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u136	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u137	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of ministers, fellow Members! Of course, we have concerns that measures are being taken per piece, because we are ultimately worried about both the potential and the predictions that you as rulers have and what we as opposition see! The very fact that you do not think there is any problem is this difference from yesterday came out the convergence program in which the Ministry of Finance says: The deficit for this year will be minus 3% and only the European Commission says minus 7.2! You understand that the difference between negative 3 and negative 7.2% is huge and we have the right to doubt because we also see that the measures that you offer as a whole for the economy, unfortunately, do not work! One billion BGN are intended for the measure 60/40. Two months later only 13 million. lv. in fact, they've really come to people! Here the big question is: are we adequate to the current crisis? Because what we're debating here, for me, shows that we're totally inadequate, colleagues! [[Arrival in GERB.]] Because I think that by defending and representing Bulgarian citizens, for us, the main goal is to take care of the well-being, for the good of the Bulgarian citizens. How does money get to citizens? Look, as we did 2008, 2009, now we do it the same way the state gives the money to the banks, the banks give the money to the companies, the companies give the money to the citizens! Why does this whole thing have to be asked by me?! Why can't we make the state go to the citizens? What BSP is proposing right now, and listen to it, because I am convinced that these debates are about to begin today in Europe, and we have no way of escaping from them. What the Left currently offers for self-insuring, for those who are on unpaid leave, are the first steps precisely for the introduction of such a universal base income! Since yesterday, dear colleagues, Portuguese Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ana Mendez, Pablo Iglesias, Spanish Deputy Prime Minister, together with Mr. Catalofo, Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Italy, are starting the European debate on each country exactly what to be this universal base income! The difference between you and us is that you want there to be for both the people and the lounge, and 210 leva. Of course they are good things; but what we want is for people to really feel secure, for people to have this basic security that allows them to lead a decent life! Because no one can say how long this crisis will last and what the consequences will be! [[Arrival in GERB.]] Yes, we can propose measures for this summer, colleagues, but the truth is that the heavy scourge will fall in January and February! Until then, what is the incentive for the real economy? What is the incentive for education or health care? And most of all, how do we preserve this human potential? Because our role as MPs is not only to take care of the financial situation of the country, but also to take care of the well-being and well-being of Bulgarian citizens! When there is this direct monetary financing, when there is a consumption crisis, as yesterday began to speak and Citibank's chief economist, really must take similar steps, as they have already done in the most liberal country! This debate, honourable Members, is about to begin! Yes, you are saying that this is a proposal of the Left, it is a socialist idea, but we cannot escape from there, because what is important for every economic growth to have sustainable development, that is, of course, capital, technology, but the key is becoming human potential, the human factor! We must focus on it, because this direct help is needed by people! Not pouring money into the financial sector again, like we did 2008 and the money stayed there! Let us have reason this time, as we have already begun to do in other countries! Yes, I repeat, you have the right to argue, you have the right to reject it, but the model is changing! The model, the factors for growth are changing, and this debate must begin to take place here in Parliament. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u138	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. - What's the line? I can't see. Mrs. Klisurska, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u139	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable Members! Two months of the state of emergency have passed, and the facts are one of the 60 000 companies in Bulgaria were closed during this state of emergency. About 300 and more thousands of companies are currently affected by the crisis. Unfortunately, it is we who had to, through the Law on Measures and Actions during the emergency situation and now, through this bill amending the Health Act to propose such socio-economic measures to assist these people. When I was listening to the debate about the sunbeds, honourable colleagues, I remembered the famous line: "If there is no bread, we will eat the bread now that there is no bread, we will go to the sea. And I am paraphrasing it because, unfortunately, there are no such necessary socio-economic measures to go directly to people. Why would I say that? I will not talk about the measure 60/40 because every day of the TVs we are listening to: lv. They are currently being spent on this measure, and for 40,000 people! That's it! With regard to loans, which is your great measure for people who are on unpaid leave, for self-affirmers, because this is the measure that directly reaches people. Do you know how many credits have been granted so far? Less than 700 credits. Why? Because those people who are supposed to be taking advantage of them are not paid their contributions, ladies and gentlemen, or they have other obligations, or they can't cover their debts to use these credits! Those measures are missing for people who will somehow help them! It is in this direction that our proposals are because do you see in the following articles what you offer us? You are stimulating the use of unpaid leave, ladies and gentlemen! You are regulation now that 60 days of unpaid leave will be respected for work and insurance service! And what you say: rest assured, Bulgarian citizens, this year your unpaid leave will be honored for service! But unpaid leave is not an income! It is because of this that is our proposal with regard to unpaid vacations that all people who are on unpaid leave for more than 15 days, because they have exhausted their paid leave, to have some minimum income to survive with! If you remember, when we voted on the Law on Measures, under art. 173a, we then introduced some risk groups that need to go on unpaid leave, ladies and gentlemen! And it wasn't just the parents of the children until they were 14 years old who were home because the schools were closed. These are those minors who also work! These are those people with disabilities above 50% who are also on unpaid leave! These are those people who are under the protection of art. 333! Can we think of them? And many, many other Bulgarian citizens who do not have any income because they are on unpaid leave! Yesterday was the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation. Well, trade unions and employers have already started to say that a measure is needed for self-insuring people, because the only measure that is currently in place by the government is because... You know what the most pathetic thing is? What is most unfortunate is that it is we, the MPs, who must propose the measures! Unfortunately, this side of the room [[turns to GERB and OP]] currently only register the decisions of the Council of Ministers! And we do not work for Bulgaria as we have been chosen, as we are delegated! The only measure that acts for self-insuring persons in Bulgaria at the moment are loans. What we offer is support, real targeted support! Do you know how many self-insuring persons are providing minimum income? That's exactly what I'm talking about more than 150,000. What do we do for them? Listen to our arguments, because I believe that we, as MPs, have the responsibility to settle this in the laws, not to be registrars! And because yesterday was May 11th "The Day of Cyril and Methodius," the Day of the Library case, I think of the novel "Under the igoto" the first Bulgarian novel. I can think of Ivan Vazov's words in it: "We need to work for Bulgaria!" [[Arrival in GERB.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's take care of this Bulgaria and Bulgaria are the people! Unfortunately, with all the measures we are currently proposing, we are not taking care of our people! [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Therefore, I call on you to pay attention to our proposals and do not object because we are from another political party! Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I am speaking on several proposals. - They are included in a common paragraph. I'm sorry for the delay, but I think what I'm saying is extremely important and must be heard from everyone. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u140	It's okay. I'm just warning you, but I didn't take the floor away from anyone, Mrs. Klisurska. Just so you know where you're moving in time. Are there any lines? I can't see. Mr. Milev, please speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u141	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Since we all really want to work for Bulgaria, I propose that we focus specifically on our measures to support the municipalities and not neglect them, because both the middle and small enterprises, both the unemployed and the pensioners, and the municipalities are currently in a difficult situation and cannot realise the collection of their taxes and fees in order to be able to manage them. We literally propose, in order to have liquid funds in municipalities, to increase by 10% the transfer or state subsidy for them, so that we do not put them on their knees and start praying through various pitfalls to the Ministry of Finance, and through the Minister of Finance to solve their problems. I understand that these 10% are not supported, and I ask the House to support them in the next vote, as they will enable municipalities to take a little breath in this state. Among other measures we have, and they are very working, and you will all see in time that the mayor is the one who bears full responsibility. All those who managed the municipal budget and were municipal councillors know that he, although through the municipal council, has the right to do and prepare a lot of initiatives, but at the time there was a slightly more liberal opportunity for his actions, and now with this centralisation we are asking him for any amount of permission from the finance minister. That is why we offer these funds, which are available and left behind from winter maintenance, to be able to use them, but not only for roads, but also for proposals from the mayor and the municipal council. Also for the allocation of regional environmental inspections under art. 60, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 64 of the Waste Management Act, I believe that those 30%, which only want to be used, are extremely insufficient because many municipalities are not paying these obligations at the moment to regional environmental inspections and will not pay them in the future, so they are also putting up with sanctions. At least for this year to simplify them, as they say, so that municipalities can use them as liquid funds. There are also many opportunities for targeted funds, which have remained in municipalities over the years, to be able to enjoy them at the moment. The mayor has the right to offer free funds and then, with loans or other means to recover, and other free means that do not interfere, of course, with the life that is being conducted in the municipalities. In addition, these funds which are used in this period of pandemic may be included in the Local Taxes and Fees Act, of course, based on it in the budget of municipalities, of course, without breaching the charge which is determined as a waste charge. There are other opportunities that can be enjoyed, but let us give the mayors and municipal councils a greater opportunity not to pray to the state because we are the ones who tied their hands, we are the ones who make them turn through the finance minister almost to the Council of Ministers and to the National Assembly. So I ask you all of our measures, which we have proposed, both for the 10 percent of them, which are not supported, and for the calculations that are to regional environmental inspections, as well as for the free funds, the targeted funds to be supported so that they can be felt in the municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u142	Thank you, dear Mr. Milev. - What's the line? I can't see. Mrs. Angelova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u143	Thank you, Madam President. I'd like to make an editorial proposal: In § 12, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The following point shall be inserted after point (d) "G": the creation of para. 10: (10) In order to overcome the consequences of the COVID-19 on the basis of an act of the Council of Ministers, the managing authorities may assign outside the cases under art. 5 of the European Structural and Investment Funds Fund Fund Management Act implementing financial resources and instruments during the programming period 2014 - 2020 and through the Bulgarian Development Bank.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u144	Give me the offer, Mrs. Angelova. Thank you. Colleagues, we are continuing with our speeches. I don't see any other speeches. [[Declared by the text between the President Tsveta Karayancheva and the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Yordan Tsonev.]] I'm closing the debate. Will there be a statement, Mr. Tsonev? We specify the text for the vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u145	Madam President, a purely procedural issue concerning the editorial proposal that I have made. It's about art. 26, para. 1. Of course, we will reschedule my colleague Iskren Veselinov's proposal in this part of the proposal. We will not reschedule, but we will vote separately, but in the version of the Commission I suggest that it be recorded as a new article. 26, para. 1 the article in question, if adopted, with the text I presented to you, there arises a question. The colleagues asked whether the text: Two years after the cancellation of the emergency situation, the Ministry of Tourism provided to tour operators using air carriers with a Bulgarian operating licence for the implementation of charter flights to the Republic of Bulgaria for tourism, a state subsidy of 35 euros for each passenger seat, not to be: For each seat occupied by the maximum passenger capacity of the aircraft for each flight filled with a Bulgarian air carrier. The subsidy shall be granted only for flights with a capacity of not less than 100 seats. Why is it done like this without a busy seat? In fact, what is the order in which tour operators are paid? The order is: they prove how many tourists have led with the charter in the respective tourist destination, in the respective tourist site or company and thus receive their money. So tour operators prove how many tourists are, and this is confirmed by the site where they go with the contract. Why wasn't it written: For every busy seat, this was what the colleagues suggested we fix? Because then it would mean that every busy seat I said just now from the stands, but the hall was empty. There are charters that have, let's say, 15 or 20 openings. Airlines are putting them up for sale and they are used by people who want to use the charter in question. For example, I personally used from Germany to Burgas or to Varna such a plane I buy a ticket with the charter in question. If we write about each seat, that means we'll pay for these... [[Noise and lines.]] That is why we also made the editorial proposal: not to make every charter flight available, because then we will pay again for those who do not come for tourism purposes. If we do it for every busy seat, we'll still pay for those who don't come. So, as I have given the text, I think it is the most correct and comprehensive and it cannot be abused in any way, as there are documentation of vouchers sold, tourists brought in and corresponding confirmation from the tourist company that accepts them being so. So I don't think there's any problem as the text.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u146	Okay, we'll sort that out before we vote. Mrs. Angelkova, you want to say a few words. Maybe before that, we should extend the time. Mr. Nenkov, let's extend the time until the bill is passed. It's a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u147	Madam President, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal to extend today's working hours and sitting until the adoption of the Law, which we are looking at the Health Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u148	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. Please, voting regime to extend the time until the adoption of a second reading of the Health Act. They voted 145 MPs: 134, none, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Angelkova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u149	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Let me, first of all, thank you all for the fact that a large part of the measures provided for in this bill are related to the sector of tourism in the transitional and additional provisions of the Health Act. I would like to thank the Prime Minister, my colleagues and all of you for the measures that we have proposed and discussed are related to both tourism vouchers, especially for the first-line people, and with the promotion of charters, because this is a mechanism that is used by all of our countries, our competitors in the tourism sector, so, of course, and the extension of the period of up to 12 months for tour operators who can offer first vouchers, respectively alternative travel, and then to reimburse consumers precisely in order to help the sector. Another extremely important measure, which is laid down in this bill, is also related to the possibility of offering free or reduced prices and beach accessories. The Law states that they must be reduced to a minimum of 50% and these are all measures related to promoting domestic tourism. I would also like to clarify that it is very important and, within tomorrow, what will be adopted by the European Commission, relating to uniform rules that we have insisted on at the informal Tourism Ministers' Meeting on how to travel within the European Union, outside it and respectively what uniform health standards. I would like to clarify that until the emergency situation is lifted both in Bulgaria and throughout the European Union, all foreigners entering the territory of the country and the Bulgarians travelling abroad and returning are subject to 14 days of quarantine until the emergency situation is lifted. [[Noise and lines.]] I hope that tomorrow we will receive uniform rules so that we can properly plan and organise our work in this extremely difficult situation. Starting tomorrow, May 13th, meeting all requirements and restrictions, all accommodations and hotels can operate. I would also like to call on you during this tribune now, especially with the coming of May 24th, on the holidays, all of us to take advantage and visit the Bulgarian Black Sea coast in general, so that we can encourage together with joint efforts our sector and together to tackle this extremely difficult challenge. [[Noise and lines.]] Thank you once again to all of you who supported the sector with your proposals. And I can assure you that both the Ministry of Tourism and the entire sector will continue...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u150	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u151	I mean, the Minister's talking?! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u152	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u153	...together so that we could, as I said, try small steps to rebuild the sector. Thanks again, everyone.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u154	Thank you, dear Minister. Colleagues, we're starting the vote on § 4. [[Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria "There are speeches. "]] Are there any more speeches? Come in for a statement, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u155	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The debate really took a long time for the sector "Tourism" but without underestimating the need for these measures, there are a huge number of Bulgarian citizens who are cornered by the circumstances and are wondering not how and where to go to the sea, but how to deal with the obligations that have accumulated on them. And in that order of thought, there is a retreat being made here, which we oppose and suggest you reconsider. Two months ago with the introduction of the state of emergency and the adoption of a special law, we together because we voted together this text. 6 We have announced that during this period no penalty interest will be charged, nor will there be any penalties on the delayed loans of the citizens. At first, this text even concerned all accounts. Then this time only you restricted it to loans from banks and from various other types of credit financial institutions. Now that most of the measures are intended to continue to operate two months after the emergency situation has been lifted, and that is correct for most of them, precisely this measure, the most social of all measures that concerns the most affected people, has been missed. Thanks to our debate at first reading and in the Commission, it has returned to the Law, but in a very limited version. Somehow incomprehensible is why the banks fell out of it?! From now on, Bulgarian citizens...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u156	Explain why from the whole debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u157	I'll answer you, Madam President, I can hear you, but those who watch the TV and our colleagues can't hear you! I will explain the whole debate to make it clear what can and cannot be done by Bulgarian citizens. Two months from now, they are expected not to owe penalties and penalty interest to various financial institutions for quick loans, not banks, but for banks this falls away. From tomorrow there will be no such legal protection. The argument is not even political, but the experts who were in the Commission were because, you see, the banks themselves have taken the means to renegotiate the loans and so on and so forth. This is a fact, but agree that it is not the same when a person goes to the bank and sits against the relevant bank clerk who offers him different options for action when the same person is protected by the Law in the next two months, not to be charged interest and penalties. We shouldn't and shouldn't create physical defaults. People who just won't be able to because they'll be piled up on current obligations new and new ones. Having accepted that we should continue the different measures for employers, that we should continue the different measures for the different sectors, I think it is perfectly logical to continue this measure for another two months in full. We have taken one step between first and second readings, please now do one more and this text.............................................................................. 6, I repeat, perhaps the most social measure in this bill to continue to act in full and to include the banks for the next two months. Banks will continue to be able to re-negotiate and do what they think is right.. They are responsible, that is good, but citizens must also be supported. Let us not make the mistake of the last crisis when it was the banks and other financial institutions that supported the financial capital at the expense of the people. We must take care not only of tourism, concessionaires, or others, but also of the normal Bulgarian citizen, especially of those who are impassed.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u158	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u159	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I thank Mr. Zarkov for raising this issue because, obviously, somehow, the speech of colleague Alexander Ivanov from our parliamentary group passed in the debate on the other measures, and it is clear that a lot of measures are included in this paragraph in so far as it concerns an amendment to the Law on Measures and Actions to overcome the CIVID-19 crisis. There are three provisions that are extremely important for protecting citizens in the current situation. There was a special debate at the Council of Ministers on this matter. I will also repeat to your attention, although I have also said this to the audience in the Bill, the protection against protective measures in respect of citizens is limited only and only in respect of postures on their employment contracts. Therefore, I shall start first with the proposal to amend the measure in art. 5, para. 2. You see, that's where we kept the defense in full. This is at the expense of creditors and at the expense of the activities of private judicial contractors. But I'll talk about it in a minute. An important circumstance was also the debate and decision on the measure which concerns art. 5, para. 1. Mr. Zarkov tried to explain that she was limited. Yes, the reduction concerns legal persons, that is to say, this measure is limited to a prohibition on public sale and the conduct of natural persons. Last night, we continued to argue purely editorially whether we should leave the expression "physical persons" or "consumers." I'm saying this because we still have some hesitation about this definition. In any case, if we had to convince you of greater sociality, we probably should have said.................... but with this we would not have expanded the scope. I think, in this case, the correct definition is a physical person. The protection against individuals goes on for another two months and I think this is fair and this is consistent with the instructions that the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria gave during the discussion of the government bill, and he insisted for citizens that the measures should remain as they were during the two months of the emergency situation. In respect of art. 6 We had a debate with Mr. Zarkov about whether we missed it by enumerating the legal norms for which we have an automatic extension of the action by two months or not. After all, you see that this text has been developed specifically, that is to say, it is not right in the list of legal norms where we have automatic extension. What's important here? It is important the intervention of the Bulgarian National Bank with regard to the instructions that are being implemented and currently against the banks in Bulgaria. The Bulgarian National Bank as a result of the instructions of the European Central Bank applied the European requirements for the protection of consumer rights in credit relations. These measures are currently being implemented, and you can see that even at the peak of the crisis, there were queues of people waiting for no other reason than to re-negotiate their credit relations, and according to precisely the instructions of the European Central Bank. Pre-negotiation and deferral is respectively fully in favour of debtors and there is no limitation during the period there is an individual negotiation and deadlines longer than three, six, nine months longer than the end of the year are accepted. But what is important in these guidelines of the European Central Bank and the Bulgarian National Bank? It is important that they apply to countries that are correct until the time of the crisis in the performance of their credit relations. For this reason, the retention of the old system, already in respect of art. 6 places debtors in a less favourable position in this negotiation process. We believe the data that were reported by the Bulgarian National Bank and the Association of Banks, so you see that here the protection in art. 6 shall be extended and shall act against the entities referred to in Article 6 and shall act against the financial institutions referred to in Article 6. 3 of the Credit Institutions Act. The shortest and inaccuracies described are the lenders of quick loans. Yes, in these cases we keep the clock stopped, the time stopped and the consequences respectively frozen. In these cases, absolutely no adverse effects of non-compliance can occur, including taking negative measures against the debtor, and we believe that this is fair. And debtors under credit agreements in view of the many regulations we believe are successfully protected and there the approach is balanced. It is also balanced because it is better for banking institutions as well than to classify individual payments as overdue and to promote them as irrecoverable, to qualify them as renegotiated and, in other words, to bring the relationship into a normal, required, correct execution. I believe that with these three norms, we have achieved the goal of protecting debtors not only in the state of emergency, but also in the coming two months. Who aren't protected? Mr. Zarkov well knows that they have remained unprotected... and I missed here for Mrs. Yankova to say that plus the municipalities are in the category of protected entities in the enforcement proceedings and the forced precautionary measures. Private court contractors are not protected. The lawyers were left unprotected. Yes, in relation to these two legal terms, we remained debtors, including me, directly involved in the interaction with chambers of private court contractors and notaries. However, I believe that both the legislator and the executive power and the institutions will find a fair way and form for a longer period of time to take compensation measures against those terms as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u160	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Any other speeches, colleagues? Mr. Svilensky, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u161	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the National Assembly, ladies and ministers! Dear Mr. Kirilov, you explained who are protected, who are not protected Bulgarian citizens, explained the government's position and will to leave the debtors of the banks out of the protection range after the end of the emergency situation, but I will give you a specific example and ask you to answer how a person, in which a group you fall for example and you as a minister who has not received a salary for two months and imagine that on 15 May or 17 May you will have a maturity on credit and then on 15 June a further maturity on credit. How exactly will you pay your credit when you will not have received your salary for May, for June will be postponed? That is, let's really get into the shoes of all such Bulgarian citizens. You have well assessed for one part, which is to the so-called quick loans, and to support our parliamentary group's proposal to extend the scope, this measure to continue to act for the next two months so that all Bulgarian citizens, and they are not few, feel the support of the state. Because it is one Bulgarian citizen to stand before the banking institution, having the protection of the state behind his back, agreeing to cancel the loan, another to stand alone, crushed by the fact that two or more months has not received a salary, that two or more contributions are due for loans and against it is a banking institution with all the power.. You can best imagine what the result of such negotiations will be. So my real request is to reconsider, if possible on the move, if you have to consult again with some financiers and this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u162	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Tzipov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u163	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Ministers! On the proposal Mr. Tsonev made for the new article. 26, to your attention I will present at the moment, we will give you the written text: Article 26, para. 1 in the second sentence, to acquire the following form: the Subsidy shall be granted for each seat occupied by a person using a tourist service in the Republic of Bulgaria and only for flights with a capacity of not less than 100 seats. Alinea third to acquire the following form: "The order for granting the subsidy shall be determined by an act of the Minister of Tourism.' We believe that in a clearer and precise way we are enabling this state subsidy to be granted by stating that it will be used by the interested parties.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u164	A al. 2 stays the same?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u165	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u166	Thank you. Any other speeches? Mrs. Ninova, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u167	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, MPs! I thought about not talking today, I've talked enough about these measures, but several speeches by colleagues in the ruling majority, the minister challenged me to say the following. Dear Members of Parliament, I do not know if you are aware that at the moment many of the measures you are discussing and proposing on your part will call them a paper policy that has nothing to do with living life. And I'm going to give examples. The Minister of Justice assures us that the European Central Bank has instructed the Bulgarian National Bank to renegotiate people's loans entirely in favour of the debtor. Sounds lovely, paper, bureaucratic, as you say. Do you know, Mr. Minister, what really happens when these loans are being re-negotiated? Have you seen a living Bulgarian in the last month who has gone to talk to us about the loan because we have many who have come to us? And they said that this is how the negotiation works: you will be extended the duration of the loan, but the interest of 3, 4 or 5% becomes 10 or 12, despite the instructions of the European Central Bank to BNB, despite BNB's instructions to the banks everything will be in favor of the debtor. Living life is completely different, contrary to everything you say. You accepted just after returning from abroad to Bulgarian citizens to quarantine them for 14 days and if they do not comply with this instruction, fine them with 5 thousand. lv. Fine! Dear colleagues, you have not heard from the Minister of Tourism, who told you: tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, a European Commission decision on a common policy on tourism, movement across borders and travel is awaiting within days. Do you want me to tell you what's gonna happen? Before you publish and promulgate this law, by which you restrict the Bulgarians who return from Greece to stay home for 14 days and if they do not make it to the fines of 5 thousand. lv. before this law is published, the European Commission will tell you that it is incorrect and you will call us back to cancel it. Is that how you make politics? These paper laws have nothing to do with living life and the problems that stand outside. We have been discussing measure 60/40 for a long time with all kinds of proposals. And what happened yesterday, what did the employers and the companies who took advantage of it say? Measure 60/40 is not working. One percent of working people have benefited from this measure. One percent! One more proof of the measures and decisions you make that have nothing to do with people's real problems outside, let alone looking for solutions to these problems. I assume you'll reject our offer again for those people who stayed on unpaid leave, those young families who stayed home to watch their children. Dear MPs, do you know how many children in Bulgaria are in kindergartens? No, right?! According to the National Statistical Institute, these are 217,867 children have not gone to kindergarten for two months. Therefore, the parents of these children stood to watch them, and on unpaid leave. And what do you tell these people and live life? £375. for two months, for staying on unpaid leave to watch children from kindergartens and because we have a very big demographic problem in Bulgaria. That's the kind of offer you're proposing. Another argument that your decisions and your laws and politics are paper, and it doesn't correspond to what's going on out there, to those self-employed artists, people of culture, of spirituality, who are going to pull us out of the crisis this time. If something has taken us out of the crisis, it's our culture, our language, our self-habitance, these people will pull us out of the spiritual crisis. How many do you know? It's really 60 grand out there! What are you telling them? If we calculate how many people affected by the crisis are left out of your care, there are certainly over one million. That is why I say: these measures you propose, you continue to propose and defend, do not respond to the real problems of the Bulgarian people. Unfortunately, you stubbornly and consistently reject those measures that are a concern for these people, proposed by the BSP for Bulgaria. It's your decision, the vote's coming up soon. We will be consistent in what we offer and sufficiently justified to know that it is financially secure, oriented towards the most victims and with care for the people. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u168	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. Colleagues, we're going to vote. We vote § 4 with all the proposals, one by one. First, I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Hamid Hamid. Vote 168 MPs: 23, Against 52, abstention 93. We are now going to vote on the item. 5 of Mr. Iskren Veselinov's proposal, which is unsupported, and at this point we have an editorial amendment made by Mr. Tsonev, and Mr. Tzipov read the final version. Please vote on the version of this. 5 of Mr. Veselinov's proposal. Vote 169 MPs: for 167, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. We are now voting in full. 5 of Mr. Veselinov's proposal with the editorial amendment that Mr. Tsonev and Mr. Tzipov presented to us. Vote 165 MPs: 160, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. They voted 165 MPs: 57 against 70, abstention 38. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported part of the proposal of the MP Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs. Vote 166 MPs: 59 against 15, abstention 92. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Yavor Bozhankov. [[Noise and lines.]] They voted 167 MPs: 50, against 83, abstention 34. The offer is not accepted. Colleagues, we continue with the editorial amendment and addition of Mrs. Angelova: in § 12, item 12. 15 shall be created, followed by the content of the point which she read. Please vote. Vote 162 MPs: 104 against 3, abstention 55. The motion is accepted. We are now voting on the text with the corresponding editorials and additions. [[Noise and lines.]] There was an editorial proposal from Mr. Zarkov for art. 6. Are we voting or withdrawing, Mr. Zarkov? [[Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria "No, no, no!"]] I'm just asking. Vote 162 MPs: 47, against 50, abstention 65. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the version of § 4, which becomes § 12 with the corresponding addition in point. 5 of the proposal of the MP Iskren Veselinov, which was edited and adopted shortly before on a proposal by Mr. Tzipov and Mr. Tsonev, and Mrs. Angelova's proposal on the Commission Report. They voted 164 MPs: 117 against 1, abstention 46. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u169	Thank you, Madam President. Proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. The time limits that have ceased to run during the emergency situation under the Law on Measures and Actions during the emergency situation, announced by the National Assembly decision of 13 March 2020 and to overcome the consequences, continue to run after the end of 7 days of the promulgation of this law in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u170	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 13 with a text on the Commission report. They voted 114 MPs: 95, none, abstention 19. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u171	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 14. Under § 6, there is a proposal of the MP Maria Belova and a group of MPs. The Commission shall, in principle, support the proposal which is reflected in § 43. Proposal of the MPs Nadia Klisurska-Zekova, Violeta Jeleva and Kristina Sidorova: The following amendments and additions shall be made to Paragraph 6 in Transitional and Final Provisions: 1. The text to date (with the corresponding editorial change of the introductory sentence) becomes e.g. 1 in § 6. 2. They're creating a t. 2 and 3: "2." A new article shall be created. 156a: Additional paid targeted leave in case of declared emergency or declared exceptional epidemic situation Art. 156a. (1) The worker and the employee shall be entitled to additional paid assigned leave under declared emergency or declared exceptional epidemic situation outside the conditions of art. 155, para. 2, in the amount of 5 working days. (2) The right of additional paid assigned leave in the event of declared emergency or declared exceptional epidemic situation arises after the exhaustion of all paid annual leave. (3) For the time of leave under para. 1 to the worker or employee shall be paid a monetary compensation of an amount determined in accordance with art. 41 of the Social Security Code. 3. The current article. Article 156a is replaced by the following: 156b. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6, which shall become § 15.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u172	We're done here. Statements, coworkers? Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u173	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! The proposal we have made to amend the Labour Code is related to the fact that 2020 is a special year, in which due to the emergency situation, in the current epidemic situation, a large part of the Bulgarian workers used their paid annual leave. A large number of working parents are placed in conditions to run out of their paid annual leave because their children do not go to school, their children are young. Right now, we're in the dark about whether or not the kindergartens are going to start working. We know the school year will end completely remotely. The family code has laid down provisions that, up to 14 years of age, the child actually has a parent in his house. Most of them used this paid leave. Yesterday was the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation. Both employers and trade unions support the proposal this year to have such a hypothetical opportunity for further specific targeted such leave. I believe that this proposal will in no way be a burden on the state, because we offer a minimum size. That's five working days. And yesterday and this morning, when we listened to the opinion of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, we heard that there was such a willingness. Do you know what I fear, honourable colleagues of the government? I'm afraid in two weeks' time, fellow Members, there will be such a proposal on your part. You don't support him in this House today just because he's the opposition. And in two weeks' time, with what arguments, gentlemen, this proposal will once again enter the Chamber, because we have heard: today there is the will of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy to possibly have such an opportunity for such quarantine leave? Moreover, both employers and trade unions tend to accept such an offer. Consider whether you will really be the registrar of some decisions by a minister, whether we really want the parliamentary republic to work as we are. We have this responsibility, so take it from you now, and support this proposal of ours. It's reasonable. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u174	Mr. Manev, not from the spot! - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? You have the floor, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u175	First, procedure, Mr. Chairman. I would just like to ask the Commission and by law the President, this proposal of Maria Belova and a group of MPs for art. 114b are we going to comment here or in art. 43, where he's systematically placed? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u176	He's about § 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u177	Okay, thank you. In that case, I can make a statement. Here you are making changes to the Labour Code, colleagues. Except that the Labour Code is the most changed legal document. Everyone is doing some experiments with him, but you have now decided in the Health Act, as a measure in this case, to make changes to the Labour Code. I honestly tell you, in the morning, and in his speech Krum Zarkov spoke about it, but I do not understand what you are doing with this article. You introduce some new kind of contracts for people who are socially weak and receive support under art. 12 of the Social Assistance Act and are not included in any programs. I can't understand.. maybe this is to some extent a solution for the promise of the Minister of Agriculture, the people of social assistance to help in agriculture, but before we adopt such a text, we need to answer many questions. The first question is: why is this article necessary? 114b, once we have art. 114a, which regulates day-to-day employment contracts that can solve this issue in fullness even? This way with this article. 114b, including these people to work in agriculture, if they work for more than 14 days, they will lose everything. They actually on this, as you wrote it, cannot work more than 14 days and will have to, after they have finished working on these 14 days, be concluded with them a contract under art. 114a. I have spoken with many people, including those who have attended the Committee on Legal Affairs, and these people claim that this proposal is not supported, but abstentioned most members. But the report says the proposal is backed up. This proposal is nothing in itself, but further in the Bill there is another proposal which already makes sense the proposal for art. 114b "Introduction," and it is that in the Law on Employment Promotion in the Additional Provisions, where the different concepts are defined, there in these additional provisions in § 1, item. 5 is added: "Main economic activity plant farming. "This is what I have to tell you that you are killing the fish because you can't... How is it possible that, as a public utility, a major economic activity could be included in the public utility activities? It's just the way you recorded it, it's nonsense. I see that the Commission does not support the proposal here, but you intend in art. 43 to bring this thing in. Why plant farming? Why not tobacco? Why not be included in the same list as public utility activity? Well, why don't we turn on the construction, and there's no manpower there? Why don't we just plug in anywhere that needs to be turned on? Not to mention that both proposals, along with that article. 114b is a direct withdrawal of human rights. Perhaps you will cause some joy in farmers, where there is really no labour, but you are also violating some principles, which I think is not good at all. Today, as you approach this way, tomorrow you will start making other Zulus, I would say, because putting a major economic activity as a public utility is just madness. I don't know where you come up with this and how you do it.! I'm sure you'll explain, but I don't understand. And I don't understand why you don't use basic art. 114a, and you have to do this term?! Explain it to people because I don't understand it. Maybe I don't understand social policy, but tell me you, because you know about agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u178	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Are there any lines? Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 14. They voted 105 MPs: 87, none, abstention 18. The motion is accepted. Now I will put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MPs Nadia Klisurska, Violeta Jeleva and Kristina Sidorova. They voted 112 MPs: 22, against 13, abstention 77. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 6, which shall become § 15. They voted 112 MPs: 93, none, abstention 19. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u179	Paragraph 7 "Instruction text'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 16. Proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Alexander Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 17: Seventeen. By 31 December 2020, on a proposal from the mayor of the municipality, the head of social services delegated by the State to activities and local activities may, without the consent of a worker or employee who is part of the staff in the social service, assign him employment in another social service on the territory of the municipality concerned.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u180	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 16; and the Commission's proposal to create a new paragraph 17 with a text according to the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u181	One by one, let's vote them out.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u182	You want a separate vote, fine. We vote only the text of the importer for § 7, which becomes § 16. 110 MPs voted: 109, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I vote on the Commission's proposal to create a new paragraph 17 with a text on the Commission report. They voted 111 MPs: 88, against 2, abstention 21. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u183	Proposal of the National Representative Dora Yankova: In the transitional and final provisions, § 7a is created: 7a. For 2020, parents or adopters of children who, because of the measures and restrictions in relation to the COVID-19 pandemic, have ceased visiting the children's establishment, including a nursery or educational establishment, have the right to paid leave under their employment or service, regardless of all other types of leave, of 20 working days. The leave is enjoyed by one of the two parents or adoptive parents, paid at the expense of the state budget in the amount of art. Article 177 of the Labour Code and Article 177 of the Labour Code. 60 of the Civil Service Act and cannot be postponed to the following calendar year. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u184	Statements? Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u185	Dear Mr President, ladies and gentlemen ministers, honourable Members of Parliament! I made this proposal, it stems from the discussion that the parents had with me and had with each other. Within those two months when they were raising their children, you know, taking either unpaid or your own paid leave. Another two months extension means that they will only go on unpaid leave, or they will have grandparents to watch the children. In parallel to this, the Headquarters says to protect the elderly, and everyone here in parliament swears by the sweetest in the children, and that is why my proposal is at least one month, because by September the parents are expected to be with their children, and these are the children for nursery, kindergarten, preschool, to allow for 20 days paid leave to be paid by the state budget. I think that this is also to be used by either one parent or the other parent, as distributed, or by the adopter respectively, which is of the child itself, if you think wisely, colleagues, we will give one help to the parents because they are really experiencing difficulty at the moment. Thank you. I also listened carefully last night to the discussion that is already going in the media with the medical experts. This is one of the major topics. Part of the medical community does not recommend that children go to kindergartens because the staff that raises them is an adult, and there is a matter of taking government treatment from the ministers of health and education themselves. And we can't say that, it should be said by the people who are competent, but such a help, I think it's good to be supported. Therefore, I appeal to all Members of the National Assembly, support my proposal. I would not have done it, and I would have withdrawn it if you had supported our proposal for people on unpaid leave to receive financial support. But since you are also running away from this, this is the third consecutive proposal that we are making to you and we are trying to give you arguments that this is useful for the Bulgarian children and for the parents who raise them.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u186	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. - What's the line? You have the floor for a line, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u187	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Mrs. Yankova, you have not come to the end of telling the truth to the honourable gentlemen of the government. Yesterday was signed the collective employment contract with which the non-pedagogical staff in the system of the Ministry of Education and Science under art. 42 of their collective agreement, governed by the sanction of the Minister of Education, they all received an additional 20-day targeted leave. So one can, one can't, one can't. That's why we're here to be fair!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u188	Thank you. Any other lines? A hole, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u189	Yes, there is such a practice and let the Minister of Education do it. This is useful because people who are currently teaching online, the rest who are non-pedagogical personnel, should receive some funds. And since there is money for salaries for the activities delegated by the state, the minister has a way of doing so. But let's do it for the kids. There's a practice, there's a chance, and anyone who wants to get used to it. This does not mean that there are probably people with a wallet who can afford it, who have how to use the family budget, and would probably be solidarity with the state. In my opinion, support this proposal! It is useful for families who have children who will go in September in the first grade, for God's sake, to begin the educational process.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u190	Thank you. Any other speeches? Mr. Gokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable Members of the House! I will also try to urge you to support Mrs. Dora Yankova's proposal. It is done on its own, but it is the conviction of the entire parliamentary group, including mine. I've been trying to get a look at the statistics. Children from zero to 4 years are about 320 thousand; from 5 to 9 years are 333 thousand, a total of 655 thousand children. Again from statistics: 217,000 children are accommodated in kindergartens and cribs. A lot of them, not a lot of them, and all these kids are released from kindergartens and cribs because they're closed because of the virus. Even if their parents have the opportunity to work, despite the measures imposed and restrictive measures, they are forced to stay home, watch their children, because there is no one to look after them, as kindergartens do not work. The problem with kindergartens and cribs is longstanding and you know that it is one of the battles that lead parents to enroll their children in kindergartens, and we cannot help them either at municipal level or through any reasonable solutions. They were promises to build kindergartens, they were promises of any payments to those who were entitled, and they could not be accommodated at kindergarten. Now, we get into a situation where parents have to stay home and watch the kids and can't go to work, even if they're allowed the measures in the pandemic. The proposal to grant these people additional leave is reasonable and normal. I don't want to do parallels with what you offer in the field of tourism. But by offering these people vouchers, by offering them a holiday on the Bulgarian Black Sea coast, for Bulgarian tourism, but there are no vacations left for these people. Half of them are put on unpaid leave because of the inability to work because of the measures, the other half because there is no job, the third because they are looking at their child, they have exhausted their paid leave, we do not give them extra and we call them at the same time to go on vacation to save tourism. Let's take care of our children, because that's part of the demographic problem. When we demonstrate such attitude towards parents, how will they give birth to children and how will we be proud that in Bulgaria we are fighting the demographic crisis when in the most critical times we are not helping these people? Think about it before we vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u192	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Dora Yankova. They voted 105 MPs: 34 against 36, abstention 35. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u193	Proposal of the MP Maria Belova and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u194	Mrs. Belova, are you withdrawing the offer? The motion has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u195	Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 8 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u196	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for the rejection of § 8 by importer. [[Heckling]] Cancel the vote! I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject the text of § 8 by importer. They voted 134 MPs: 106 against 1, abstention 27. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u197	Proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and group of MPs: Paragraph 8a is inserted: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss For the year 2020, persons registered as unemployed in the Employment Agency shall be subject to the termination of the insurance as a result of the measures and restrictions relating to the pandemic of COVID-19, the following specific rules for the monetary unemployment benefit under Article apply. 54a and the following of the Social Security Code: 1. The order of Art. 54b, para. 4 of the Social Security Code shall not apply. 2. The time during which on the basis of the registration referred to in the first sentence they will receive unemployment benefits shall be respected for the acquisition of the right of monetary compensation under art. 54a, para. 1 of the Social Security Code. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u198	Thank you. Mrs. Klisurska, you'd like to address yourself. After you, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u199	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! The proposal we are making is related to the right to receive monetary compensation for unemployment, regulated in art. 54 of the Social Security Code. The current article. 54b, para. 4 states that all who have benefited from their right to unemployment benefit in the next three years, if their employment relationship is to be terminated, shall be entitled to compensation only for the minimum period of four months and receive the minimum unemployment benefit. There are some common conditions in the Social Security Code in art. 54 and they relate to the fact that anyone who is entitled to receive unemployment benefits must have worked, but continuously 12 consecutive months in 18 calendar months. This condition is vitiated in the hypotheses of art. 54 of the Social Security Code. Unfortunately, at the moment, from 13 March to the present time, unemployment, which is registered at the labour offices, amounts to about 105 thousand people. One hundred and five thousand people affected by the emergency situation and this epidemic situation. The forecasts of trade unions and employers are that unemployment will increase. One reason is the lack of adequate socio-economic measures and the other is the real economic situation that will occur in the coming months. Therefore, let 2020 be a year in support of those on whom the employment relationship has been terminated, let everyone who has gone to the exchange and who has a terminated relationship have the opportunity to have the opportunity, within one year, after working out another 12 calendar months in 18, to have the right to all their unemployment benefits. So is our proposal, namely, that the hypotheses within the next three years do not act so that these people can fairly benefit from their full right to monetary compensation for what they have worked out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u200	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! In my previous speech, I said that having affected the economy, there were four types of people who suffered the most from restrictive measures in particular. These are those who go on forced paid leave on unpaid leave, released by mutual consent, released from work. We have made suggestions for those who go on forced leave to give them a little more leave so that they can enjoy the vouchers in tourism, Madam Minister. For your unpaid leave, you refused. For your unpaid leave, we offered to receive some funds so that you could exist. With this proposal of Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, we offer you a solution on the issue of people who are made redundant and should receive unemployment benefits. Unfortunately, in the Social Security Code in art. 54b, para. 4 it is recorded that a person, when he acquires the right to compensation and if he has benefited from it within three years, is not entitled to full compensation but to minimal compensation. The minimum compensation in this case has been determined by the Law on the State Budget of 9 BGN. daily compensation, which makes about 180 leva. a month. I figured it out because people don't live and eat only during the working days, but all the time, so if we divide those 180 levs. At 30, it's 6 leva. a day. I even asked Prime Minister Borisov how he thinks a person can drive with 6 leva. a daily unemployment allowance, after being provided on his full salary, for example, or even on the maximum income, within those three years he will receive the minimum compensation. I didn't get an answer. Now I hope you will give us an adequate attitude to our proposal. We offer at least for this year, because the consequences of the coronavirus will hardly be overcome within this year, but at least for this year, to remove this condition in the three years in which, if the person has received compensation, not to receive full compensation, but the minimum. The colleague just told you that how many people are on compensation over 120 people are already unemployed. Experts in this area in the labour market are forecasting that there will be a next wave of unemployment. Let's solve these people's problems to get a little more adequate compensation and not apply to them these three months, to feel a little more relaxed. I'm saying it again because we don't give them anything for free. I understand if this measure acts under normal conditions, forcing them to look for a more demanding job and not to often fall into an unemployment situation, but at the moment this does not apply as an argument. I therefore call on you to support this proposal of ours and to do something good for these people. And then I have a proposal that I'm going to talk about, and it's directly related to that. It is a change in the amount of minimum unemployment benefit. Again, the argument was when we accepted the state budget that the amount of compensation should be such as to force the unemployed to seek a more active job. We're not in this period right now. Now we're in a crisis where people can't look for a quiet job. Even if they are looking for it, they cannot find work because of the restrictive measures that will continue in the future. It is also good to update the minimum unemployment benefit, especially that this, except from the BSP, which we have been systematically proposing for years when we accept the state budget, is also spoken by the trade unions. I do not know why there is no such hearing in the parliamentary group of GERB and of the United Patriarchs. Again, it is not about any charity or gift to these people, it is about adequate compensation for something they have provided for, in this case unemployment. I don't know why this is the approach to people's problems, but it's not enough. I'm telling you in a straight text.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u201	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Are there any lines? I won't. Next statement? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. They voted 112 MPs: 32, against 59, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u202	Paragraph 9 "Introduction text'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9, which shall become § 18. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10 which shall become § 19. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 20. Proposal of the MPs Valentin Nikolov and Dimitar Boychev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 21: .................................................................. (1) In order to ensure energy security, the price/regulating period ending on 30 June 2020 for the prices of companies in the electricity sector may be extended by a period of up to two months from the date of expiry of the period. (2) In the event of an extension of the term under para. 1 The Energy and Water Regulatory Commission shall rule on applications for price validation submitted by energy undertakings until the entry into force of this Act. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12 which shall become § 22. Paragraph 13 "Instruction text'. There is a proposal of the MP Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs: The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the MPs Valeri Simeonov, Christian Mitev and Boris Yachev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13, which shall become § 23: ..................................................... (1) For the summer season 2020, with effect from 1 June 2020, the concessionaire and the tenant under an existing sea beach concession contract shall provide the beach visitors with, respectively, with the beach visitors the beach accessories within the meaning of § 1, item 1. 6, proposal 1st and 2nd of the Black Sea Coast Construction Act at prices reduced by not less than 50 percent of the prices for season 2019 or by the maximums under the respective contract. (2) By 25 May 2020, the concessionaire shall, respectively, notify the Minister of Tourism of the prices of the beach accessories for the summer season 2020, in accordance with para. 1. By 30 May 2020, the Minister of Tourism shall notify the concessionaire or tenant in accordance with the methodology laid down in para. 6 for the reduction of the amount of the concession fee due or the rental price for 2020, which corresponds to the reduction of the price of the beach accessories under para. 1. The concessionaire shall pay his concession fee for 2020 by 30 November 2020. (3) In the cases under para. 2 on a proposal from the Minister of Tourism, the Council of Ministers by decision reduces the amount of the concession fee due for 2020 and the Minister of Tourism by order reduces the amount of the rental price due for 2020. When the remuneration or price is already paid in full or in part, the corresponding reduced portion is deducted from the concession fee, respectively, from the rental price for 2021. (4) In accordance with the decision or order under para. 3 The Minister of Tourism and the concessionaire respectively concluded an additional agreement to the concession contract or the lease. (5) The duration of the concession or rent may be extended on a proposal from the concession holder, respectively the tenant for a period of not more than one year, whether or not the statutory maximum period for the contract type concerned is exceeded, and the concession holder or the landlord may give reasons to accept or refuse the offer. The Minister of Tourism and the concessionaire respectively concluded an additional agreement to the concession contract or the lease. (6) The reduction of the concession fee due or the rental price corresponding to the reduction of the beach accessories as well as the extension of the concession or rent shall be determined by a methodology adopted by the Council of Ministers by 23 May 2020 on a proposal from the Minister of Tourism. (7) A person who does not fulfil an obligation under para. 1, a penalty of 50 000 BGN is imposed and a penalty of 100 000 BGN is imposed when the same infringement is repeated. A repeated infringement is a violation committed within 4 months of the entry into force of the criminal decree imposing a penalty for the same type of infringement for the same sea beach. (8) The infringements shall be established by acts consisting of officials designated by the Minister of Tourism. Criminal decrees shall be issued by the Minister of Tourism or officials appointed by him.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u203	Thank you. Statements, coworkers? When you speak, let us know which paragraph you are referring to. Mr. Ermenkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u204	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm treating the new § 21. I would like to inform my colleagues that the BSP parliamentary group for Bulgaria will support this paragraph, as we are sure that this is one of the very few real anti-crisis measures provided for in Law, namely delaying the expected electricity appreciation by at least two months. Yes, I say there will be an increase in electricity, do not understand it as an intervention in the work of the Commission for Energy and Water Regulator of the independent regulator, simply information leaked in the media about the demand of electricity companies to raise these prices. As the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission nevertheless complies with these requests, so the delay by two months of this appreciation is positive in our view. Once again, we will support § 21, but since we have a different attitude to the other paragraphs, Mr President, I propose that each of these paragraphs be voted on separately.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u205	Okay. Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Mrs. Naydenova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u206	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to draw attention to § 11 where it is said that hospital care facilities, active treatment, with the Minister's order to carry out treatment and monitoring of patients with CIVID-19. Colleagues, we're in the Health Act. We are neither in the CoVID-19 Law nor in the Emergency Act. What if it's another contagious disease tomorrow? If the name COVID-19 remains, then this § 11, regardless of its paragraphs 1, 2, 3 to 4, will apply only to it. What are we doing? I think that the text is not correct here, and I will at least ask my fellow doctors in this House, including the Chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs, to rule on this matter. Maybe what's right is different. CIVID-19 to drop out, and to assume that.. don't forget that only at the beginning of our debate, we talked and Dr. Daritkova, I regret that she is not in the room, we accepted her proposal for mandatory isolation and/or hospital treatment of infectious diseases under art. 61, para. 1. Now we're just talking about the COVID-19. That is why I cannot accept the proposed text of the importer because of the COVID-19. Rather, perhaps a more revised text will be for compulsory isolation and/or treatment, as isolation includes monitoring of persons under art. 61, para. 1. I'm making a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u207	Thank you. I didn't understand the formal offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u208	My suggestion is that the text proposed and the part § 11, para. 1 to obtain the following species: (1) Hospital care establishments for active treatment which are designated by the Minister of Health to carry out compulsory isolation and/or treatment of persons under art. 61, para. 1 of the same law by means of certain officials......................................................................................................... and continues................................................................................................................................................. As for each contagious disease, each official who is designated in the hospital care facility concerned is more for active treatment, he should be checked to have the required current, to have the necessary security, so I think there is no room here for COVID-19.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u209	Thank you. Are there lines? You're basically right, but when we look at the period 2020 anywhere, you see that the whole section applies to the same thing. Are there any other speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u210	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I have a proposal for editing in § 23, para. 1 words The Black Sea Coast Building Act is replaced by the additional provisions of the Black Sea Coast Construction Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u211	Got it. Thanks. Any other speeches, colleagues? There are no other speeches. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. We will vote separately each of the texts presented by the rapporteur and, upon reaching the relevant paragraph, will put to the vote the two editorial amendments of Mrs Naydenova in § 11 and § 23 of Mrs Alexandrova. We start with the text of the importer for § 9, which becomes § 18. They voted 122 MPs: for 122, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 10 which shall become § 19. They voted 121 MPs: 120, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the editorial amendments in § 11, proposed by the Parliamentary Representative Mrs. Naydenova. They voted 120 MPs: 26, against 65, abstention 29. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the text of the importer for § 11, which becomes § 20. Vote 120 MPs: 98 against 7, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 21 with a text according to the Commission report. 125 MPs voted: 125, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 12, which shall become § 22. They voted 116 MPs: 94, none, abstention 22. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote Mrs. Alexandrova's proposal for replacement in the text of para. 1 in § 23 of the Commission Report. They voted 121 MPs: 96, none, abstention 25. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 13 by importer, which shall become § 23 with the amendments already adopted by Mrs. Alexandrova. They voted 123 MPs: 99, against 1, abstention 23. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u212	Proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Hamid Hamid by the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create § 24 .................................................................................. (1) The concessionaire under a concession contract for a sea beach may propose a deferral, reduction or re-routing of part or all investments to be made for 2020 and 2021 under the concession contract, respectively, to offer new investments and the concession is motivated to accept or refuse the proposal. (2) The Treaties under para. 1 shall be amended by signing an additional agreement between the Parties, which shall be concluded by 31 December 2020, and by adopting a decision of the concession, except in the cases referred to in art. 8x, al. 13 of the Black Sea Coast Construction Act. § 25. (1) For the summer season 2020 on the territory of the sea beaches in 2020 shall be allowed to the sites under art. 10, para. 4 t. 2 letter (b) of the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast using an additional commercial area of the sea beach outside the area under art. 10, para. 7 of the same law, but not more than 4 percent of the area of the sea beach. (2) A person who violates the provision of para. 1, a fine from 1000 to 5000 BGN is required. or a financial penalty from 2000 to 20 000 BGN. In case of repeated infringement, the fine is from 2000 to 6000 BGN and the penalty is from 4000 to 40,000 BGN. A repeated infringement is a violation committed within 4 months of the entry into force of the criminal decree imposing a penalty for the same type of infringement for the same sea beach. (3) The acts establishing the infringements under para. 1 shall be composed of officials appointed by the Minister of Tourism. Criminal decrees shall be issued by the Minister of Tourism or officials authorised by him. § 26. In 2020 on the territory of art. 10, para. 4 t. 1 of the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast, the concessionaire or tenant can decorate areas in order to prevent and control the flow of visitors after approval of schemes by the Minister of Tourism. § 27. In 2020, on the territory of the guarded sea beaches of the exposed rescue posts, personnel at each post can be reduced to one lifeguard. § 28. (1) The period of validity of class A and Class B accommodation categorizing certificates, food and entertainment establishments (self-contained and adjacent to accommodation), tourist cabins, tourist training centres and tourist bedrooms and their adjacent dining establishments, whose categorisation under the Tourism Act expires after 1 September 2019, shall be extended until 31 December 2020. (2) The certification certificates for balneomedical (Medical SPA), SPA, wellness and thalassotherapy centres for sites whose certification under the Tourism Act expires after 1 September 2019 shall be extended until 31 December 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u213	Thank you. Statements, coworkers? [[Heckling]] I will put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create paragraphs from § 24 to § 28, including the text of those paragraphs under the Commission report. They voted 110 MPs: 90 against 1, abstention 19. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u214	Paragraph 14 "Proposition of the People's Representative Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 14, which shall become § 29: ........................ 29...................................................... In the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2020 (DV, No. 99 from 2019) in the transitional and final provisions of § 12, para. 1 and 2 the words "not later than 30 June 2020', and for aids, equipment and medical devices for persons with disabilities made on an order' shall be deleted and the word "October' shall be replaced by "December'.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u215	Thank you. Are there any speeches?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u216	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u217	I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission to § 14, which shall become § 29. Vote 115 MPs: for 114, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u218	Proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and group of MPs: ##14a is being created: ......... 14......................................................................... In the Law on the Budget of State Social Security for 2020 (prom., D.V., No. ...) in art. The 11th number..9,00.. is replaced by.17,00................................................................................................................ The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u219	Statements? Mrs. Jeleva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u220	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Our proposal concerns the unemployment benefit for the daily unemployment benefit to be increased by 9 BGN. £17. Every year when we look at the budget of the DEA we make this proposal because every year the minimum wage increases, all workers pay their social security to the Fund Unemployment and the minimum daily compensation remains frozen for several years in a row. Now, however, the situation is different and somehow this problem is growing more and more. It's only now that we think of it and there's some kind of agreement on the subject. What did we find out yesterday from the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation? There is agreement on the part of trade unions and employers, and what came out as information is that there is also a request from Minister Goranov that this increase be a little more significant. It is not known what its value will be as an increase, because we are waiting for it to give a good word after May 15th. Here's what's happening. We are making a good proposal, which we have been defending for years, and it is necessary for people, especially in this situation, and you will finally reject, judging from the debates in the Legal Committee, judging from your behaviour today in this Chamber, you are indistinguishing every one of our proposals, you have no arguments and you are not saying why...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u221	Yeah, yeah, we don't have any arguments!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u222	Say it after that, sir. In a few days, however, it will turn out that this proposal will eventually be made with some other values from the government, but today, because it has been proposed by BSP, it will most likely not be accepted. I want to say one more time. Now the minimum compensation per day is 9 leva. That's 180 leva. for a man who's lost his job. What happens now usually? Employers force their workers to terminate their employment relations by mutual agreement. Then this worker in this difficult situation will have to take and have income for his family 180 leva. a month. We offer minimum daily compensation of 9 leva. to be BGN 17 Controllers, that's BGN 340. a month! Don't you think it's a little small anyway? Give a hand, however, to the people who now, in this difficult situation, remain with minimal income from their unemployment benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u223	Thank you, Mrs. Jeleva. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't either. I will put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal by MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. They voted 110 MPs: 35 against 26, abstention 49. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u224	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15, which shall become § 30. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16, which shall become § 31. Paragraph 17 "Instruction text'. Proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 17, which shall become § 32: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Water Act (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) A new item shall be created. 5. It's five o'clock. the free movement of chemicals necessary for the treatment of drinking and waste water, in the treatment process, including imports across the state border; b) Previous t. 5, 6 and 7 become respectively t. 6, 7 and 8. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 127 is The waste water treatment plants in the settlements, settlements and resorts shall be provided with treatment facilities/installation plants. Decontamination shall be carried out before discharge in surface waters and the Black Sea if necessary at the discretion of the authorities of the Ministry of Health. Mandatory decontamination is carried out before discharge in the Black Sea during the resort season. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 131 is In the event of emergency pollution with unpolluted municipal waste water or in the event of an exceptional epidemic situation: 1. sludges from waste water treatment plants in settlements, settlements and resorts used in agriculture shall be applied to the soil after at least 30 days of time stay outside the treatment facilities; 2. waters used in accordance with Regulation No 18 of 2009 on the quality of crop irrigation waters when contaminated with unpolluted waste water shall be used to irrigate crops for at least 48 hours after mixing them with those waters. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 148a para. Six is 5. In § 1 of the additional provisions, paragraph 1 shall be inserted. 101: supposed to "Chemicals for the treatment of drinking and waste water in their treatment processes' are floculants, coagulants, biocidal products used for decontaminating/disinfecting and others intended for the treatment plants/drinking facilities and waste water treatment plants. Proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and group of MPs: == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man sevena. In the Law on Value Added Tax (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 66, para. 2 after the word "Standing" "Food" is added, for medicinal products included in the positive list under art. 262 of the Act on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, paid with funds from the budget of the NHIF, medical devices and diet food for special medical purposes, as well as The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u225	Thank you. Statements? Here you are, Mr. Gechev. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u226	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Of course you expected our arguments for the differentiation of value added tax. We have the following arguments, especially in a situation of an increasing economic crisis and the impoverishment of the population for all the member states of our European Union, including Bulgaria. Firstly, what is European practice? For your information, honourable Members, there are countries in the European Union that have a 5-speed value added tax structure. Ireland: 23% VAT, exceptions: 13,5%; 9%; 4,8%; 0%. The exemptions from average VAT are always in terms of basic food goods, medicines, medical equipment, cultural services, preservation of the environment and others. In Italy the structure of value added tax is 4-speed 22% total VAT: 10%; 5% and 4%. In France, there is a 4-grade VAT rate of 20% total VAT. Exceptions: 10%; 5.5% and 2.1%. For what, honourable Members, in France.. main food products, soft drinks, medicines, internal transport, hotels, restaurants. By the way, it is mandatory for restaurants that it is excluded from the reduction of value added tax on alcoholic beverages, giving municipal housing rents. In addition, 2.1% in France is VAT for medicines, for newspapers and magazines, for the supply of television programs, cultural events and so on. In Italy, food products, agricultural products, non-alcoholic beverages are subject to 4% VAT and medicines and electricity are subject to 10%. We have been offering you differentiated value added tax for several years, arguing that this is common European practice. My fellow Members, there are only two countries in the European Union that do not have a differentiated tax. One is Bulgaria and the other is Denmark. You will say for Denmark yes, this is a typical Scandinavian country with a strong social democracy and a high standard of living. Yes, however, in Denmark really, if we compare with Bulgaria, we should bear in mind that they do not have differentiated VAT, but have free higher education, free secondary and primary education and practically free medical services. So they have solved the issue of tax differentiation in another way. Given the difficult condition in which the Bulgarian economy is located, the doubling and possible triple of unemployment in Bulgaria, given also the fact that about 60 percent of the expenses of the Bulgarian family go to purchase food, we believe that we will take an extremely good step in these conditions in the facilitation of Bulgarian citizens. That is not true, firstly, we have been listening to arguments for years now that this complicates the calculation of VAT. Dear colleagues, in the 21st century in modern software programs there will be no difference in milliseconds even on computers to calculate VAT on the programme. In addition, are countries such as France, Italy, Ireland, not to list other countries of the European Union having difficulties in calculating VAT? Secondly, it is not true that prices will not be reduced, as any trader who sells goods and services under reduced VAT does not profit from VAT All over the world with the reduction of the additional burden in the structure of the price in the form of taxes, whichever they are, the decrease in food prices leads to a higher volume of sales, respectively to a higher volume of profit. So by supporting not only BSP's proposal but also European practice, firstly, we are solving social problems in these difficult conditions. Secondly, in the medium and long term, revenues in the budget will be the same and even larger. And thirdly, we retain the conditions of increased market competition. Our proposal is pro-European, it is based on European experience and will have a social and economic effect. I'm asking you to support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u227	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm calling off the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I will now put to the vote the following texts: the text of the importer for § 15, which becomes § 30; the text of the importer for § 16, which becomes § 31; the version proposed by the Commission for § 17, which becomes § 32. They voted 129 MPs: 98, none, abstention 31. The proposals have been accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. They voted 137 MPs: 45 against 28, abstention 64. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u228	According to § 18 there is a proposal of the National Representative Georgi Gokov. The Commission does not support the proposal § 18 to be rejected. Proposal of the National Representative Alexander Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 18, which shall become § 33: ................................................ In the Law on excises and tax warehouses (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1, t. 11 the words "production and storage' shall be replaced by "production and/or storage'; (b) the creation of para. 7? 11: A tax warehouse may not be an object covering: 1. an oil pipeline and connected/joined to it more than one base/unit for storage and/or production of energy products; 2. an oil pipeline and an oil pipeline with more than one base/unit connected to them for storage and/or production of energy products. (8) In the cases under para. 7, p. 2, in the case of a production plant for oil processing, the related pipeline and oil pipeline are an integral part of the relevant tax warehouse. (9) Where the pipeline is located in the territory of more than one customs office, it shall be granted a separate licence to manage a tax warehouse. The pumping facilities necessary for the operation of the oil pipeline shall be considered part of the tax warehouse. (10) In the cases referred to in para. 9 oil pipeline-related bases/units for storage and/or production of energy products are separate tax warehouses. (11) When issuing a licence for the management of a tax warehouse under para. 8 and 9 shall be reported according to the specifics concerned. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1: (aa) point 6 is repealed; (bb) The creation of a t. 7. "7." use means to measure and control the entrance and exit of pumping equipment necessary for the operation of the oil pipeline in cases under art. 47, para. 9..................................................... (b) in para. 2 t. 1 is repealed. According to § 19 there is a proposal of the National Representative Georgi Gokov: "Paragraph 19 to fall." The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Alexander Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 19, which shall become § 34: ................. 34................................................................. (1) Persons falling within the scope of art. 47, para. 7 - 10 of the Law on excises and tax warehouses, bring their activities in accordance with the same law, and for this purpose within one month of the entry into force of this law, they shall notify the Director of the Customs Agency of: 1. a change of licenses already issued for the separation of oil pipeline/oil products and for the issue of a separate/single license/licensings for the bases separated from the tax warehouse; 2. a change of licenses already issued within the scope of which an oil processing manufacturing plant and its related pipeline and pipeline and for the issue of a separate/single licence/licenses is covered. (2) The notification shall contain information and apply the necessary documents for the issue of a licence for the management of a tax warehouse in accordance with the requirements of the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses. (3) Where clarification of all the facts and circumstances relevant to the issue of a decision on change and a licence/licenses for the management of a tax warehouse is necessary, the person notified under para. 1 may request suspension of proceedings for a period of up to one month, indicating the reasons for suspension. The request may be lodged within 14 days of the submission of the notification under para. 1, respectively, within the time limit for the removal of irregularities in the presence of irregularities. (4) The decision to change and the licence issued/licensed in relation to the notified under para. 1, t. 1 or 2 shall be served simultaneously. (5) The guarantees for the tax/tax warehouse/warehouse at the request submitted under para. 1 shall be submitted before the licence/licensing is issued. (6) The stocks of excise goods established by the customs authorities at the date of service of the acts under para. 4 shall be recorded in the material reporting of the relevant tax warehouses and shall not be considered to be released for consumption and electronic administrative documents shall be registered for this purpose. (7) If no notification has been made within the period under para. 1, the licence falling within the scope of Article 1. 47, para. 7 - 10 of the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses is hereby terminated. (8) Until the relevant act is issued to the Director of the Customs Agency on compliance is art. 47, para. 7.. 10 of the Law on excises and tax warehouses, persons who have notified under para. 1, continue their activities as licensed warehousekeepers, but no later than 30 November 2020 According to § 20 there is a proposal of the National Representative Georgi Gokov: "Paragraph 20 to fall." The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20, which shall become § 35.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u229	Statements? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the National Representative Georgi Gokov § 18 to be dismissed. They voted 133 MPs: 34 against 70, abstention 29. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 18, which becomes § 33. They voted 134 MPs: 103, against 1, abstention 30. The motion is accepted. I now put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal of the National Representative Georgi Gokov for the dismissal of § 19. They voted 134 MPs: 33, against 79, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 19, which shall become § 34. They voted 131 MPs: 103, against 8, abstention 20. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the National Representative Georgi Gokov for the dismissal of § 20. They voted 127 MPs: 29, against 72, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 20, which shall become § 35. They voted 129 MPs: for 101, against 1, abstention 27. The motion is accepted. Mr. Zarkov, a re-vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u230	It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u231	I shall re-vote the text of the importer for § 20, which shall become § 35. They voted 121 MPs: 91, against 2, abstention 28. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u232	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21 which shall become § 36. Proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and group of MPs: ..created § 21a: ............................................................................... By 31 May 2020, the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall take the necessary action and make changes to the relevant regulations ensuring: 1. Financial assistance of 50 million lv. for vegetable producers, orchards and livestock farmers. 2. Interest-free loans for working capital with a minimum of 6 months grace period for vegetable producers, fruit trees and livestock farmers. 3. Grant financial assistance under the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020 to support micro-enterprises with a headquarters or a branch in a rural municipality to overcome the economic consequences of the CoVID-19 pandemic. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 37: ...... 37........................................................................ In the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 58a, para. 2 the number ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss,sssssss,ssssssssssssss,ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss,ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u233	Thank you. Statements? Speaking, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u234	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! We of the BSP parliamentary group are consistent on the topic of agriculture and with the support of farmers. Many times from this tribune, we have said that the sector should be the leading sector in order for Bulgaria's food policy to be the way it was and the way it should be, but not the 50th place on the food index. That is why in the Law our proposals are precisely for stimulating small farmers, vegetable producers, fruit trees and livestock farmers. We therefore offer a grant of 50 million. lv. We, and two months ago, when we adopted the Emergency Act, offered 30 million-dollar aid. BGN, but what did the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests do through the Fund of Agriculture and Agriculture? gave away 5 million instead of reaching precisely those who produce greenhouse production, they reached the big chains. So this is a measure that unfortunately did not work on the part of the government. We also offer an interest-free loan for working capital for at least a six-month grace period again for vegetable producers, fruit producers and farmers. We also offer grants under the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020 to support micro-enterprises with headquarters and a branch in a rural municipality in relation to the economic consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic. Honourable Members, if we look at the agricultural report on the location of the agricultural sector, the gross added value created by the sectors of national economies, and if you look at the period from 2014 to 2018, the agricultural sector is with those seen in 2014. 5,2%, and in 2018, it goes below 4 - 3,9%. Unfortunately, the service sector is growing. Bulgaria is becoming a state of services. My fellow Members and I have repeatedly stated from this tribune that in the agricultural sector, the industry of many productions, which Bulgaria had and has these resources, we are currently in an intensive monocultural production. We mainly produce cereals that we export with no added value, and Bulgaria has become a raw addition to our neighbours and countries of the European Union. At the same time, if we look at the gross added value of the industry of Selsko,.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... lv. less in the economy compared to 2017 The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 130 million. lv. at 3 billion. Seven hundred million. BGN, i.e. an ineffective, wrong agricultural policy. Some authors even talk about the so-called paradoxical agrarian dualism -- that is, some 6% of the large farmers, the so-called agro-olligars who take 80% of the subsidies, and the other 94% small farmers -- those for which we from BSP offer these measures -- they produce mainly for personal use, for a private natural holding -- so-called natural production. These are two economic worlds that exist in parallel without meeting in the socio-economic space. Therefore, from our parliamentary group, we insist on these measures to help small farmers, vegetable production, as they need them at this time, we must preserve them. It is clear that they do not have this production to enter the major chains, which, of course, with the Order of the Council of Ministers you accepted, but it is wrong. Three years ago, here in this Parliament, we accepted and proposed, but you did not accept the Chains Act to really be through a law, as did the Romanians. Not for nothing now Romanians from this food index are at times better than us. I also set an example for you with the Hungarians, where the state currently invests more than 1 billion. lv. for the production and greenhouse production of tomatoes. Why shouldn't Bulgaria specialize in those things that exist? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm graduating, Mr. Chairman. That is why, from our parliamentary group, we propose these measures and I hope that they will be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u235	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. - What's the line? Statements? Here you are, Mr. Danchev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u236	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Chairman! In fact, in the speech of the colleague before me, perhaps the only thing that was not to be said is that the big problem that is currently sitting in front of farmers in Bulgaria is that they may be the only sector that was explicitly excluded from all the possibilities for assistance, as if the problem that arose with the coronavirus did not affect this sector. This, of course, is not true, and particularly much support is needed by the most sensitive sectors in agriculture sectors, namely vegetable production, forestry and livestock farming. Particularly great is the need for help precisely for the smallest farmers. Strangely, we were impressed by the BSP that in the Operational Programme "Innovation and competitiveness" last week, when commenting on the unlocking of the grant measure from 3000 to 10 000 BGN. micro- and small enterprises were excluded micro-enterprises which were registered in rural areas. Of course, this makes sense because there is a clear demarcation between the Rural Development Programme and the Innovation and Competitiveness Programme. But it is strange why the Ministry of Agriculture does not react, respectively, to the State Fund of Agriculture and did not take such a reciprocal measure in the Rural Development Programme to help small farmers? We are therefore here with the proposal that we have made, we are urging the Minister of Agriculture and the management of the State Fund to pay attention to the lack of support for these micro-enterprises that are registered in rural areas, because these are probably the largest part of the micro-enterprises in the country and within the Rural Development Programme to provide funds to support these micro-enterprises. Therefore, I appeal to you to support this proposal all together! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u237	Thank you, Mr. Danchev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u238	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to make an editorial amendment in § 21 by importer, namely: the words "up to two months" to be replaced by "up to six months" and the text to look as follows: .................................................................. For up to 6 months after the cancellation of the emergency situation, the Employment Agency shall pay compensation amounting to 290 BGN. for certain categories of persons subject to insurance under the Social Security Code, in accordance with criteria and conditions laid down by an act of the Council of Ministers. The funds shall be transferred by bank transfer to the insurance/self-insuring person concerned. The funds are at the expense of funds from the European Structural and Investment Funds. I believe that this editorial amendment will be more favourable and will allow for a longer period of time to pay this compensation if necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u239	Thank you. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I will put to the vote the proposed text for replacement in § 21 of the National Representative Svetlana Angelova. They voted 115 MPs: for 89, against 1, abstention 25. The motion is accepted. I am now voting on the text of the importer for § 21, which becomes § 36 with the amendment adopted. Vote 112 MPs: for 101, against 1, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. They voted 121 MPs: 34 against 73 abstentions 14. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create § 37 with a text on the Commission report. They voted 118 MPs: for 94, against 1, abstention 23. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u240	Proposal from the National Representative Alexander Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 38 and 39: ....................... 38........................................................... (1) By the end of 2020, the Minister of Finance may grant interest-free loans at the expense of the central budget with a recovery period not exceeding the end of 2021 to municipalities in connection with the implementation of anti-epidemic measures in the territory of the municipality under art. 63 of the Health Act or in case of temporary cash disruptions to the municipality's budget as a result of reduced collection of property tax, vehicle tax and household waste tax compared to the same period of 2019. (2) Loans under para. 1 shall be granted on the basis of a reasoned request from the mayor of the municipality and a decision of the municipal council, as art. 103, para. 5 of the Public Finance Act and art. 14 and 15 of the Municipal Debt Act do not apply. (3) For loans under para. 1 The provisions of Article 1 shall apply. Art. 105, Art. 106 of the Public Finance Act. § 39. Transfer provided until 20 January 2020 for winter maintenance and snow cleaning of municipal roads under art. 53, para. 4 of the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2020 can be used to carry out expenses by the municipality to implement anti-epidemic measures on the territory of the municipality under art. 63 of the Health Act. Proposal of the MP Ivelina Vassileva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Anna Alexandrova under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 40 and 41: ..... 40................... 40...................................................... (1) For 2020 in the expenditure under art. 62, p. 3 of the Law on Local Taxes and Fees may also be included costs for implementing measures under art. 63 of the Health Act carried out in public use territories in settlements and settlements in the municipality. (2) The costs under para. 1 shall be provided by internal compensatory changes, without amending the method adopted by the municipal council and the amount of the municipal waste charge. § 41. (1) Until 31 December 2020 up to 30 percent of the accumulated funds under art. 60, para. 2, p. Art. 1 and 2 and art. 64, para. 1 of the Waste Management Act can be spent for the implementation of measures under art. 63, para. 1 and para. 2 of the Health Act relating to the fulfilment of the requirements of the Waste Management Act. (2) The expenditure of the funds under para. 1 shall be carried out by decision of the municipal councils after approval of the Minister of Environment and Water. (3) The monthly allowances due for the year 2020 under art. 60, para. 2, p. Art. 1 and 2 and art. 64, para. 1 of the Waste Management Act for the period from 1 March 2020 to 30 November 2020 shall be imported by 31 December 2020. (4) For the period from 1 March to 31 December 2020, no interest shall be charged on the amounts due for monthly deductions under art. 60, para. 2, p. Art. 1 and 2 and art. 64, para. 1 of the Waste Management Act. Proposal of MP Hamid Hamid Hamid: In the transitional and additional provisions, a new §... is added with the following text: The provisions of art. 82, para. 9 It shall apply from 01.01.2016 The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 42 and 43: .............................................................................. In 2020, the ban on construction and installation works in the national resorts along the Black Sea coast under art. 15 of the Black Sea Coast Construction Act is from 15 June to 1 October. § 43. (1) Until 31 October 2020, unemployed persons of working age who receive monthly assistance under art. 12, para. 1, t. 1 of the Social Assistance Act and are not included in the employment programmes under art. 12b of the same law, they may conclude contracts for short-term seasonal agricultural work for a period of not more than 120 days, and this time shall not be recognised as service. (2) The labor contract under para. 1 has normal working hours for the day up to 8 hours, and the parties may negotiate work for 4 or 6 hours. (3) At the conclusion and termination of the employment contract under para. Article 1 shall not apply. 62, para. Art. 3 and 4, Art. 127, para. 1, t. Art. 4 and art. 128a, para. 3 of the Labour Code. (4) The labor contract under para. 1 contains details of the parties, place of employment, place of employment, place of employment, amount of remuneration, days and months of performance of the work, duration of working time, start and end of working day and data entered by the labour inspection which recorded the relevant model. (5) The labor contract under para. 1 shall be drawn up on a model established by the Minister of Labour and Social Policy and published on the website of the Executive Agency. (6) The employer shall be a registered farmer under the Law on the Support of Farmers or a registered tobacco producer under the Law on Tobacco, Tobacco and Related Products may receive registered models of the employment contracts under para. 1. (7) The models of the employment contracts under para. 7 can be obtained in the respective Directorate for Labour Inspection by the registered farmer or tobacco producer either personally or electronically. (8) The wage shall be paid on the day of the expiry of the contract of employment under para. 1 against a receipt, an integral part thereof. (9) Social and health insurance contributions for persons under para. 1 shall be imported from the insurers who have entered into a contract under para. 1 within the time limits referred to in Article 1. 7, para. 1 of the Code of Social Security and under art. 40, para. 1 of the Health Insurance Act. (10) The persons under para. 1 reserve the right to monthly assistance under art. 12, para. 1, t. 1 of the Social Security Code for the time during which they have concluded a contract under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 22, which shall become § 44: ..................................................... The law shall enter into force from 14 May 2020, with the exception of § 33, 34 and 35, which shall enter into force from the day of the promulgation of the law in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u241	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Statements? Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u242	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, I would like to begin by asking you to present the various voting texts one by one, as far as there are those we will support, such as those who will help to some extent the municipalities, on a proposal from Ivelina Vassileva and Alexander Ivanov, which were also contained in our proposals. They are not enough, but, unfortunately, you have rejected the more serious measures. And that's something. However, at the same time, we strongly oppose § 43, which is intended by importers to assist in the collection of agricultural production. However, we have already taken measures on this issue, extending the special rules that we had taken for two more months in this particular area in the Emergency Act. Now, with this text being offered to us, I'm afraid that instead of writing our eyebrows, we'll take our eyes out. And that was mentioned on several lines. The first is that of the workers' rights, which was advocated including by representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, as well as by the representatives of the BSP. Another is along the line of administrative chaos that something like this could create. And third is the unforeseen consequences that can arise at any particular time when the specific relationship between a farmer and his worker is sometimes more than 14 days, and he takes other aid and so on and so forth. That is, with the boots, we will not help farmers to collect their produce, nor the socially weak and the unemployed to find some livelihood, albeit temporarily. On the contrary, we may find ourselves hindering both. Last but not least, social rights should thus not be questioned. We therefore strongly oppose and will vote against the introduction of such a breakthrough in labour law. By the way, I take this opportunity to be delighted that another rather scandalous text has been withdrawn, which has aligned to socially useful activities in private interest in an absolutely unacceptable way, but here you have come to your senses, you have withdrawn it. Congratulations! One must know to give and step back. Take a step back here, not for anything else, but because you will not achieve the goals you set yourself.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u243	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. You want a separate vote, as I understand it, in paragraphs 42 and 43. In paragraphs 38, 39, 40 and 41, do you have one?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u244	Paragraphs 42 and 43 separately.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u245	Okay, I get it. Statements? Mrs. Belova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u246	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In order to appease the opposition colleagues, I am proposing an amendment to para. 10 in § 43 "The Social Security Code" is replaced by the Social Assistance Act. And in this regard, the creation of a new para. 11: Until 31 October 2020, the main economic activity shall be considered to be activities within the meaning of § 1, item. 5 of the Additional Provisions of the Employment Promotion Act. I therefore believe that we also satisfy the opposition's demands to support farmers, as they said, which guarantee us the food security of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u247	Thank you, Mrs. Belova. - What's the line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u248	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Belova, I am completely shocked by your proposal. You yourself, an hour and a half ago, withdrew the same proposal from this bill, what you are now offering us. You withdrew it because I think you heard yesterday's arguments. What you are doing, ladies and gentlemen, let us make it clear to you that the definition in the Employment Promotion Act is the definition of public utility, where utility services and other such things are inserted, the robbing of production. It's angaria! It is to take some people and make them work not at their own will for the private interest of someone else, because public service by definition is something that is done in the public interest. So you drive some people to a private to rob his production, which he then sells. This is contrary to any standards, including international standards. And just because it's for a little while doesn't make it more scandal. And the way it was done after it was submitted as a proposal, discussed in the Legal Committee, faced a serious resistance withdrawn here from the Chamber, and now suddenly at the last moment again dictated!? Please, what we have done for farmers and for the collection of production, we do not underestimate the problem and we have voted, these texts have entered into the famous and long discussed § 4. Do not question natural rights in this rude way! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u249	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Is there another line? The line, Mr. Mitev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u250	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Belova, I do not agree with your speech, because apart from the proposal for editing, you still had to clearly explain to the left of the room what it says in the discussed § 43 and it has nothing to do with what we hear so far from the BSP. There can be no angaria, for we have free of charge in the angaria, and it does not provide, but free of charge work, which is mandatory. In § 43, para. 1 What does it say? That by 31 October 2020, unemployed persons of working age who receive monthly social assistance under the Social Assistance Act and are not included in employment programmes under art. 12 of the same law, they may carry out - - -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 12 of the same law -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- ---- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- Under this employment contract to be concluded, that person will receive remuneration accordingly. This work to be done is not free labour and such suggestions for angaria or any obligations that no one introduces, and they do not exist in this proposal, cannot be supported, cannot be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u251	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Gokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u252	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the House, dear Mrs. Belova! I asked you a question, and you didn't answer the question enough, and here they also help you from "United Patriarchs" to motivate yourself of what you are doing. Sorry, this is vandalism! To you, first, a paragraph of the Legal Commission has been rejected, then a paragraph has been withdrawn from you and now you're inserting it as an addition to the already I don't know what that is! Is it editorial? What is it? We can't figure out what this is about, so I don't know what you're doing!? This is vandalism in what we do in the legislative process, first. Secondly, I asked you what it requires, and Christian Mitev, who is trying to help you in some way here, to motivate this, tell me, since it says here: we can conclude, and maybe we don't?! Well, why shouldn't he do it 114a and have 114b? Answer me, let's see what this is about. So in 114a I explained very clearly to you earlier that they could conclude contracts for 90 days a year for day-to-day contracts. Now you're making these same people art. 114b, where you tell them they can work 14 days in agriculture. But these 14 days are over, because they may want to work and 15, and the law does not currently prohibit them from working on day-to-day contracts for more than 14 days by spending these 14 days, this farmer or farmer who is working must stop under this article. 114b and start making contracts with him under art. 114a. And why would he do that? What's the reason for all this? If it were written somewhere, it's imperative that you bring them in... [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u253	Time's up, Mr. Gokov!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u254	...to do this, as the colleague said, would be an angaria and would be a total violation of rights. I don't know why you're doing this. If you can explain in any way, I will be pleased.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u255	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Mrs. Belova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u256	Dear Mr. Gokov, I find it difficult to explain to a colleague who believes that the measures and the adoption of norms related to the support of farmers in this difficult situation, I quote by memory. I believe that there are prominent, competent experts in your parliamentary group who could explain to you, if you hear them, of course, that these proposals relate only to the possibility that farmers may be able to take on these permanently unemployed people who do not lean on the broom, use slang, at least do real work. Because we are in a situation where we are faced with the danger of having a harvest and there is no one to collect the Bulgarian harvest, and you were, for which we supported you, the people for which you wanted... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u257	Who forbids them?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u258	Mr. Gokov! You were right, you made a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u259	...serious measures in support of farmers in support of agricultural production to buy Bulgarian production. And now to talk about zulus and vandalism, there's nothing to comment on. Mr. Mitev, yes, yesterday I believe that whatever is the conviction of colleagues on the proposed texts and all the motives that we have put forward in the Legal Commission are not working. I do not find it right to use the National Assembly stands to comment and explain how farmers should not be given the opportunity to collect their roses, cherries and so on, Bulgarian production. Shortly before the examination of this paragraph, the colleagues on the left said: the plant-growing sector is really the most vulnerable, really with these texts we support the small vegetable producers and do not find any sense to debate, and to talk that we are making vandalism in this hall, trying only to help them collect their crops. I withdrew the offer because there was no deadline. In the editorial amendment, I explicitly say the deadline is October 31st to end the business year in the situation in which it is currently in place. I believe that this is a compromise that we, as legislators, are obliged to do to help farmers. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u260	Thank you, Mrs. Belova. Mr. Popov, first and then Mr.... Mr. Popov raised the map. You want a statement? Procedure? Here you go. I'll give you a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u261	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just made a proposal for this employment charge. [[GERB noise and lines]] in no way is it editorial and you should not allow it to vote. It was withdrawn where it belonged, has nothing to do with it and is not editing the texts that have been proposed. Let us not violate the Rules of the National Assembly, do not allow it to be voted on. Parliament, I hope, from now on, will work in a normal rhythm, there will also be an opportunity for this proposal to be discussed in peace and possibly to be tabled by the one who believes that it could do some work with this job. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u262	Thank you, Mr. Popov. It's a complement text that was downloaded from where it didn't belong, and that's why it's available here. No, it's a supplemental text. [[(Comments from GERB: This is an editorial amendment.]] Mr. Gokov, you have the floor. [[Noise, lines, laughter.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u263	It's a supplemental text. It's in the rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u264	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. President, I did not intend to speak because I think I have said everything I had to say in the original statement on this matter. However, Mrs. Belova came out here and is trying to make some suggestions about how BSP the insensitive do not want to help farmers, and here are some methanes..... why we are against this plant farming, the most vulnerable industry, and we will not help. We offered for agriculture, if you remember, 50 million. BSP has proposed a lot of other measures, only you didn't take any, and now you're explaining how I said "Zulus and vandalism." I never said that word, and I said that you were vandalizing in the legislative process. That's what Philip Popov told you with his procedure. Once again, Mr. Chairman, as a continuation of Philip Popov's speech, consider it a procedure. It is unacceptable a proposal rejected in the Legal Commission, no matter which committee it is in, because the main report is the Legal Commission, a proposal not supported by the Legal Commission and withdrawn by the importer, then submitted because there was no deadline!? So what is the editorial amendment that can be made during a vote? Can someone explain it to me?? Stop twisting things! Zulumi is what you do in the legislative process. It is not your desire to assist farmers. And we are willing to support farmers, only we do it in a more rational way than you do. I asked you and you did not answer the question: what prevents farmers from concluding contracts under art. 114a? What prevents them from hiring those who are on social assistance, which does not prevent these people from maintaining social assistance at all? That's why you introduced the day-to-day contracts two years ago that violate labour rights again. And now we're putting in place another contracts - 114b, though temporary, but you don't want to understand that. Ask the experts who work at the Social Ministry, ask the experts who work at the Labour Inspection, at the Labour Offices that 114a is not an effective member for employment contracts, and you want to do art. 114b to... Stop experimenting on the Labor Code. I understand that we want to help these people, but let's accept a suggestion, listen to these suggestions, don't close your ears and when you hear BSP, press the red button! Stop this shit! And I have never called your wish, nor ours, nor anyone in this room, to help the farmers of Zulum or vandalism. Vandalism is what you do in the legislative process! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u265	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Are there any lines? Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u266	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Gokov is absolutely right. A moment ago I told you our proposals, you are silent, you are not saying: they do not work. And Mrs. Bellova suddenly with this measure... I would like to ask: how many farmers and producers have spoken to you and want this measure? Yes, you do. They want our measure of BSP [[Comments from GERB: "Not true. "]] They want grants, that's what they want, support, not with this measure that you're talking about. Because such farmers and vegetable producers that you quoted, they are in such an extremely difficult situation that you cannot help them with this measure. Total chaos these two months are your proposals. First, that the Minister of Defence, Deputy Prime Minister, is proposing measures to support farmers!? I don't know what you're talking about.? He's got a minister of agriculture. What did you do? You closed in the most important period the markets and cooperative markets at the moment when exactly the small producers had to realise their production. That's what you did. The nurseries have gone bankrupt. Next, the measures you propose for livestock farmers, what have you done with small farmers? Instead of helping them, you helped 64 slaughterhouses, you gave them the money. People with 100 sheep, goats call and say: why didn't they give us the money from GERB and from the United Patriarchs? The proposals we made from BSP did not accept them, and now with some proverbial measures you want to assist farmers. Thank you for your attention. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u267	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u268	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! All day, and not just today, we are discussing the effectiveness of the measures proposed by the government in different sectors. So far, we are reporting that the measure in the economy for business 60/40 is not working. They're reporting it! We note that your social measures to help unemployed families who stay home and watch their children do not work. For now, it seems that only the loan measure worked for consumers, credit to business, credit to the state and so on. Now let's see what happens in agriculture. Are you not sure that this is one of the priority sectors Bulgaria needs to develop in another way and another way? Because the crisis shows that such a type of pandemic interrupts supply connections all over the world, and the most dangerous are supply links, food supply corridors, and the population of a country can be left without food. Each country must therefore turn its policy, care, financing to its own production. Yes, there are countries that are in the desert, although there are also countries that produce and cannot. But Bulgaria has one of the most fertile lands, has experts and specialists, has experience in the production of agricultural products and has a broken trade balance in terms of import and export, especially in the field of agriculture. Put simply about the trade balance: we eat foreign fruits and vegetables when the Bulgarian state and the Bulgarian people can produce them both better and cheaper. What was to be done for this policy, and what did you do? The small and medium-sized farmers of fruits, vegetables, meat and milk had to be given a grant. Did you do it? No. What did you tell them? Go to the banks and get credit. How to return them by not producing as they find good and when. No, these people needed direct grants to produce Bulgarian food for the Bulgarian people. The second measure, which you allegedly implemented, helped the Bulgarian farmers to sell the goods in the retail chains. You made such a noise, but such talk was spoken by the Prime Minister: how he is calling the retail chains and 50% of the areas in the Bulgarian retail chains are immediately loaded with Bulgarian production. What is the result of this, esteemed rulers? And does one of you know how much percentage of Bulgarian production is currently sold in the retail chains thanks to your farming measures?! There's no change! They simply imposed their policies, which have been imposed for many years and which we have opposed, twisted your hands, imposed their conditions. supposed no benefit for the Bulgarian producers in the retail chains. Neither the initial idea left a certain percentage of the areas to be occupied by Bulgarian goods, nor the relief of the Bulgarian producers for fees and others for access to the retail chains. That is, this measure in the sector is also not working! And what you are proposing now is a third relief measure for employment in a way that is absolutely unacceptable in Bulgarian labour and insurance law. If we are to sum up your proposed measures in the field of agriculture: zero result for Bulgarian farmers in a wonderful opportunity for the Bulgarian land to feed the Bulgarian people. Come to your senses because this should be one of the long-term priorities of Bulgaria. You are ruling today, another will rule tomorrow, one of the things that any political party should rule over is Bulgarian agriculture, because it gives Bulgaria the opportunity to develop not only for internal consumption, but one of the areas in which an export-oriented economy can be worked for an important element of the Bulgarian economy to be revived after the crisis. It's time you really realized what this is about. For the second time today I will say: you are constantly taking palliative measures on paper, paper laws, paper policy, which has nothing to do with living life and gives no result for the development of the Bulgarian economy and the well-being of the Bulgarian people. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u269	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Are there any lines?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u270	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Ninova, had the Minister of Agriculture been here, he would have told you that with the Bulgarian chains or at least a few of them, with one main one, five years ago, the government in the area of what you talked about, without understanding and at the moment, how to lend a hand to small and medium-sized farmers and what market they found in the goods of one of the chains, became clear now during the discussion of these measures. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Not from where I'm standing! Stand up behind me and speak! One of these chains has already exported 60% of what it sells and is Bulgarian production. For four years passed and restored the old Bulgarian varieties, concluded with hundreds of companies contracts that currently import into METRO production by financing their crops, financing their plant protection, giving them prescriptions for what they should fertilize, what water they should water with. It's no coincidence, when it was the Prime Minister's conversation, this chain set an example for the other smaller circuits how this thing works. And if you want a working group to visit all the stands in Bulgaria on this chain and make sure that there is a 60% Bulgarian production with specific contracts. Moreover, than those who meet with certificates the requirements of the world standards of this chain, the best goes also to other countries as exports. So when the other chains have already completed this picture, which created the Ministry of Agriculture, GERB and this government, Bulgaria will become a normal country. I have no memory, however, that when you were in charge, you created something like this. The only thing you've created is a permanent bankruptcy. That your party is bankrupt, your cassata is bankrupt, and you are talking about stockpiling Bulgaria. It's a shame!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u271	Mrs. Ninova, you have the right to the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u272	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Ninova, explain that Bulgaria is first in Europe's use of agricultural area with more than seven acres, that one Netherlands has one decare and a hundred, but it is first in the production of agricultural products and second in the world that the large chains of which the colleague before me talked about here do not correspond to the truth at all and that we should go to see these chains. Nothing like that, since according to the Agricultural Report. "Dear Mrs. Ninova, explained, the production of tomatoes is 39 thousand. Dekara, which is absolutely not enough for what my colleague is talking about. Therefore, these things are important to hear from the stands of the National Assembly. And once again, I would like to repeat: total chaos has been in the last two months.. no support for small farmers... what we from BSP offer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u273	Thank you. Third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u274	Mrs. Ninova, I'll take her! [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u275	Mr. Gurnevsky, you're talking about a chain that does this in good faith. We are talking about a law that introduces rules and order so that all chains comply with them and comply with them. If we are going to rely on the goodwill of a commercial entity, an external company, to conduct a Bulgarian national policy, write it off. Either the state conducts this policy through laws, order, rules and control, or we just don't have it, and we let everyone's good will do what they want. But otherwise it is good that you spoke, because for nine hours of debate with this statement you read the whole group of GERB, which for nine hours of debate on all topics about the development of the economy of Bulgaria, and not only the social policy and health care, were silent. [[Noise and excitement.]] Since morning, there have been at least three proposals of Prime Minister Borisov to change VAT to food, to restaurants, to the beginning of 2021, now and now. We have not heard a word from the President of the Financial and Budget Committee here on this subject. We were discussing a bunch of social measures. For the benefit of the unemployed, for the compensation of people left on unpaid leave, not a word! You should thank Mr. Gurnevsky today. Although with such an unprofessional statement he only reported your group on the extremely important issues for Bulgaria and the Bulgarian people. Your silence today is indicative of the lack of arguments and the policy of a piece of chaotic, and policy of buttons. The Prime Minister said to you this morning, "You have to reduce VAT to 9%." You just voted against. Colleagues, you have dignity. Are you waiting for him to tell you otherwise tomorrow?! Tomorrow you will vote 9%. And that all day long! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Is that why we're here to wait for a man to tell you what to do every half hour?! For half an hour you submitted an offer, ten minutes later you withdrew it, half an hour later you brought it back. Guys, that's no way to run a country! Either you have to have a clear plan of what you're doing, or you're going to be going worse and worse, unfortunately, at the expense of the people and the state. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u276	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u277	Dear Mr. Chairman, I'm doing a technical editing. In para. 7 There has been a mistake: the Images of labor contracts under para. 7 to be read by para. The text should also be done: "The Images of Labour Contracts under para. 1 can be obtained in the respective Directorate, Labour Inspection by the registered farmer or tobacco producer personally or electronically.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u278	Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to establish § 38 and § 39 with a text on the Commission report. They voted 127 MPs: for 127, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted. I will now put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create § 40 and § 41 at the same time as a text under the Commission report. Vote 128 MPs: for 128, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Hamid Hamid. They voted 131 MPs: for 6, against 73, abstention 52. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create § 42 with a text on the Commission report. They voted 131 MPs: for 101, against 2, abstention 28. The motion is accepted. We are going to vote on the wording of § 43. There is a proposal for replacement in the text of § 10 of the National Representative Maria Belova. I shall put to the vote the proposal for replacement in § 10. 125 MPs voted: 98 against 27, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u279	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My negative vote will be very brief. First of all, it's procedure. You said this was a substitution procedure. I am very curious where there is such a substitution procedure in the Rules. I don't know if you find her, I'd be very happy to see her.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u280	I'm showing it to you right now, Mr. Popov. 69, para. 1, t. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u281	What does she say that there is a replacement procedure? [[Loud noise and laughter from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u282	The vote shall take place as follows: 1, t. 1, t. 2, p. 3 supposes to replace. [[Loud noise and laughter from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u283	By § 10, which has already been voted on.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u284	It's a replacement proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u285	By § 10, which has already been voted out... wonderfully. Twice I think he's been voted out, anyway, and withdrawn. I voted against this practice, borrowed from South America before the Civil War there, which you are trying so hard to introduce here. You refused to give farmers direct financial assistance at the expense of giving them work. A moment ago I said that this employment charge, which does not correspond in any way to the Bulgarian Constitution, nor to the Labour Code, nor to the Social Security Code. It's just that you've been taking, accepting, replacing, moving, and so all day long. In fact, I wonder, dear Mr. Chairman, why we didn't vote all the texts until the end, and then you can pick them up, replace them, move them any way you like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-12.u286	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. There is a proposal to supplement again by Mrs. Belova in the text of § 43 as para. 11. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Vote 120 MPs: 90 against 29, abstention 1. The offer is accepted. Proposal by the National Representative Anna Alexandrova for editing in art. 43, para. 7 7's with................................................................................ 1.................................................................................. I put to the vote Mrs. Alexandrova's proposal. They voted 121 MPs: 91, against 28, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote § 43 with the proposals already adopted for replacement and editorial amendments. Vote 126 MPs: 96 against 28, abstention 2. The offer is accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 22 which shall become § 44. Vote 119 MPs: 95, against 23, abstention 1. The offer is accepted. Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova, from 1:00 p.m. you have delivered the entire meeting. Congratulations! Colleagues, the next regular plenary session shall be on 14 May 2020 at 9:00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
