ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u1	Good afternoon, fellow Members, good afternoon to colleagues who are remote in the hall! Please, registration mode. We'll start the registration of our colleagues who are online. Anna Alexandrova? I don't see her. Valentin Kasabov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u2	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u3	Vejdi Rashidov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u4	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u5	Georgi Kolev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u6	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u7	Daniela Dimitrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u8	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u9	Ivelina Vassileva?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u10	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u11	Yordan Apostolov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u12	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u13	Konstantin Popov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u14	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u15	Krastina Taskova? I don't see her. Mladen Shishkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u16	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u17	Plamen Nunev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u18	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u19	Nine colleagues who checked in remotely. There are 119 MPs registered in the hall, 9 MPs who are remotely registered in the hall become 128. The required number of MPs for decision-making is 65. There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[Ringing. Deputy Chairman Valeri Simeonov signaled that Anna Alexandrova is online.]] A vote is pending and we will give Mrs. Alexandrova the opportunity to vote. Honourable Members, in relation to the non-compliance with points of the weekly Programme for the work of the National Assembly provided for in the plenary sitting on 19 November 2020, I am making a procedural proposal that the Programme for today's plenary sitting on 20 November 2020 be on the following agenda: "1." First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Health Act. Importer Daniela Daritkova on 13 November 2020 2. Second vote on the Draft Law amending the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Environmental Protection. Importers supplied by Ivelina Vassileva and a group of MPs on 23 October 2020. Adopted at first vote on 13 November 2020. 3. Second vote on the Bill for Supplement to the Law on Obligations and Contracts. Importers "Iskren Veselinov" and a group of MPs on 25 June 2020. Adopted at the first vote on 22 July 2020. 4. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure. The Council of Ministers received a first vote on 29 October 2020. 5. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Personal Aid Act. Importer supposed the Council of Ministers on 10 November 2020. Adopted at first vote on 13 November 2020. 6. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Aid Act. The Council of Ministers received the first vote on 13 November 2020 on 10 November 2020. Parliamentary control will begin after the completion of item six. It will only include answers to the three deputy prime ministers. Mr. Tsipov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! My procedure is that a name check will be carried out in connection with the upcoming vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Tzipov. Initiating roll call check: Adlen Shukri Shevked is absent. Albena Vladimirova Naydenova- absent Alexander Dimitrov Pawnov- here Alexander Ivanov Matsurev- here Alexander Koychev Ivanov- here Aleksandar Mairov Siddi-here Alexander Nikolaev Sabanov- here Alexander Petrov Alexandrov- here Alexander Rumenov Nenkov- here Alexander Tihomirov Simov- absent Altimir Emilov Adamov- here Anastas Marinov Popdimitrov- absent Angel Iliev Isaev- here Andrian Ivanov Raykov-- here. Anna Vasileva Alexandrova (via a video conference platform) - here Anna Nikolaeva Slavova- absent Anton Konstantinov Kutev- absent Asya Atanasova Peeva- here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov- here Atanas Petrov Kostadinov- absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov is absent. Bogdan Emilov Botsev- absent Boris Vangelov Borisov- here Boris Petkov Kirchev- here Boris Yankov Yachev- here Borislav Ivanov Borisov- here Boryana Lyubenova Georgieva- here Bürhan Ilyazov Abase - absent Valentin Alexiev Nikolov- here Valentin Georgiev Lambev- absent Valentin Ivanov Radev- here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov (via a video conference platform) - here Valentin Mirchov Milushev- here Valentina Alexandrova Naydenova- absent Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov- absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov- here Vasil Milanov Antonov- absent Vasil Tsvetkov- here Eyebrows Letif Rashidov (via a video conference platform) - here Velislava Ivanova Krasteva- absent Venka Kostadinova Stoyanova- here Vesela Nikolaeva Lecheva- absent Veselin Naydenov Mareshki - absent Veska Marinova Nencheva- absent Violeta Ruseva Jeleva - absent Vladimir Slavchev Valev- here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev- here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov- here Galya Eneva Zaharieva- here Galya Stoyanova Zhelyazkova - here Georgi Georgiev Mihailov- absent Georgi Georgiev Stoilov- absent Georgi Dimitrov Andreev- here Georgi Evdokiev Markov- absent Georgi Zaprev Dinev- here Georgi Yordanov Yordanov- absent Georgi Kolev Kolev (via a video conference platform) - here Georgi Nikolov Vergiev- absent Georgi Stratilov Svilenski- absent Georgi Tenev Stankov- here Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski- absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov- absent Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova- here Daniel Petkov Yordanov- absent Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova- here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva- here Daniela Dimitrova Maleshkova- here Daniela Dobreva Dimitrova (via a video conference platform) - here Danka Evstatieva Zidarova-Lurtova- here Dean Stoyanov Stanchev- here Delyan Slavchev Peevski- absent Desislaw Petrov Taskov- absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov- absent Desislava Angelova Todorova- here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova- here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva- here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov is absent. Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov is absent Dilyan Stanimirov Dimitrov- here Dimitar Boychev Petrov- here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev- here Dimitar Velichkov Georgiev - absent Dimitar Ivanov Avramov- absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev- here Dimitar Ivanov Danchev- absent Dimitar Krumov Alexandrov- here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov- here Dimitar Stoyanov Stoyanov- absent Dobrin Nenov Danev- absent Donka Dimova Simeonova- absent Dora Ilieva Yankova- absent Dora Stoyanova Hristova- absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev- absent Evgeni Genchev Budinov- here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva- here Evgenia Danielova Angelova- here Evdokia Slavchova Asenova- absent Elena Vladimirova Angelina- here Elena Stefanova Pesheva - absent Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov- absent Emil Marinov Hristov- here Emil Seraphimov Tonchev- here Emilia Veselinova Staneva-Milkova- here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin is absent. Errol Osman Mehmet-- absent. Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev- absent Brought to you by Vassilev Iankov- here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov- absent Ivan Dimov Ivanov- absent Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev- absent Ivan Nikolov Mihovski- here Ivan Stefanov Valkov- here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov- absent Ivelina Veselinova Vasileva (via a video conference platform) - here Ivo Angelov Hristov- absent Iglika Ivanova-Subeva- here Ilian Angelov Timchev- absent Imren Ismetova Mehmedova- absent Irena Metodieva Dimova- here Irena Todorova Anastasova- absent Honest Vasilev Veselinov- here Ihsan Halil Hakke is absent Yordan Apostolicov (via a video conference platform) - here Yordan Iliev Yordanov- here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev- absent Kalin Dimitrov Vassilev- here Kalin Lubenov Velev- here Kalin Nikolov Popovski- here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva- here Kolyo Yordanov Milev - absent Konstantin Veselinov Popov (via a video conference platform) - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev- here Krasimir Georgiev Tzipov- here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov- here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev- here Krasimir Mitkov Subev- here Krasimir Hristov Jankov- here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Cristina Maximova Sidorova- absent Krum Kostadinov Zarkov- absent Krastina Nikolova Takova- missing Lalo Georgiev Kirilov- here Lilyana Drumeva Radeva- here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov- here Lyubomir Boykov Bonev- absent Manoil Minchev Manev- here Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Margarita Nikolaeva Nikolova- here Maria Yordanova Ilieva- here Maria Yordanova Tsvetkova- here Maria Shtereva Belova- here Martin Stefanov Obreshkov- absent Menda Kirilova Stoyanova- here Milen Vassilev Mihov- here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova- here Milko Nedyalkov Nedyalkov- absent Mitko Kostadinov Polychronov- here Mikhail Ivaylov Hristov- absent Mladen Nikolov Shishkov (via a video conference platform) - here Mustafa Sally Karadaye- absent Nadia Spasova Klisurska-Zekova - absent Nelly Ruskova Petrova- here Nigyar Sahlim Jaffer is absent Nikola Iliev Dinkov- absent Nikolay Asenov Tishev- absent Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov- here Nikolay Georgiev Ivanov- here Nikolay Dimitrov Penev- absent Nikolay Ivanov Tsonkov- absent Nikolay Krastev Boshkov- absent Nikolay Tsvetanov Sirakov- here Nikolina Panayotova Angelkova- here Nona Krasteva Yotova- missing Pavel Alexeyev Hristov- here Pavel Dimitrov Shopov- absent Petar Georgiev Kanev- absent Peter Hristov Petrov- here Plamen Dulchev Nunev (via a video conference platform) - here Plamen Ivanov Manushev- here Plamen Tachev Petrov - absent Plamen Trifonov Hristov- here Polina Alexandrova Shishkova- absent Polina Tsvetoslavova Tsankova-Hristova- here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev- absent Radoslava Plamen Chekanska- here Radostin Radoslavov Tanev- here Ralitsa Trilkova Dobreva- here Ramadan Bajram Atali is absent Rosen Zhivkov Ivanov- here Rosen Malinov Malinov - absent Rumen Vassilev Gechev- absent Rumen Nikolov Georgiev- absent Rumen Petrov Genov- here Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev- here Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova- missing Svetlana Angelova Naydenova- here Sevim Ismail Ali is absent Sergey Manushov Kichikov- absent Simeon Georgiev Naydenov- absent Simeon Hristov Simeonov- absent Slavi Dichev Netzov- here Slavcho Stoev Atanasov- here Smilyana Nikolova Niva-Krsteva- missing Spas Georgiev Gurnevski- here Save Yanev Panchev- here Stanislav Ivanov Popov- here Stanislav Ivanov Stoyanov- here Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov- here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov- absent Stanislava Krasimirova Stoyanova- here Stefan Apostolov - here Stefan Ivanov Burgeev - absent Stay Mitev Stoynov- here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev- absent Stoyan Radkov Bojinov- here Tanner Mehmed Ali is missing. Tanya Todorova Petrova- here Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov- absent Teodora Atanasova Halacheva- absent Teodora Radkova Georgieva- here Todor Baychev - absent Toma Lubomirov Bikov- here Thomas Nikolov Tomov- absent Filip Stefanov Popov - absent Hayri Recepov Sadakov- absent Halil Rexepov Letifov is absent Hamid Barry Hamid-- absent. Hassan Ahmed Ademov - absent Hristian Radev Mitev- here Hristo Georgiev Gajev-here Hristo Tanchev Prodanov- absent Flower Valcheva Karayancheva- here Tsvetan Borisov Topchiev- absent Chavdar Yordanov Velinov- here Julian Krastev Angelov- here Yulian Mihailov Papasimov- here Yavor Bozhilov Notev- here Yavor Rumenov Bojankov- absent There's a quorum, moving on. I put to the vote the agenda I propose for today. Colleagues who are online: How did Anna Alexandrova vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u22	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u23	Valentin Kasabov? Mr. Kasabov didn't vote. Vejdi Rashidov? I don't see Mr. Rashidov. Georgi Kolev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u24	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u25	Daniela Dimitrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u26	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u27	Ivelina Vassileva?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u28	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u29	Yordan Apostolov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u30	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u31	We heard, Mr. Apostolov. Konstantin Popov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u32	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u33	Mladen Shishkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u34	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u35	Mr. Plamen Nunev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u36	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u37	Mr. Valentin Kasabov showed up.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u38	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u39	Nine MPs voted online. Vote 112 MPs in the hall and remotely 9 MPs.. are 121, for 107 in the hall plus 9 remote. They voted 121 MPs: 116 against 4, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Declaration on behalf of the United Patriarchs. Here you are, Mrs. Tsvetkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u40	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I present to your attention a declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the United Patriarchs on the occasion of Christian Family Day. On 21 November the Orthodox Church celebrated one of the biggest Christian holidays Introduction of the Virgin Mary, which in Bulgaria since 1929 was celebrated as the Day of the Christian Family. For centuries our grandfathers have believed that the house is a sacred place, and in the family children learn the most valuable and life lessons and are raised in the Christian virtues on which the Bulgarian family stands. Family church attendance on that day symbolizes Mary's entry into the temple and reminds parents of their spiritual responsibilities to children. It is no coincidence that in Bulgaria and in the Republic of Northern Macedonia we celebrate the Introduction of the Virgin Mary as the Day of the Christian Family. Here again are intertwined church and folk traditions, preserved and defended for hundreds of years. In his long history, the Bulgarian has given a worthy place to the family. Therefore, on the eve of Christian Family Day, it is important to think in two aspects: the Bulgarian family as a major factor in combating the demographic crisis and as a moral shield against harmful liberal propaganda, which aims to replace traditional Christian values by imposing gender ideology. This poses a serious threat to the foundations of Christian Europe and the healthy Bulgarian Christian family. Where is the danger coming from and who is trying to impose this foreign, detrimental ideology for the Bulgarian society? A few days ago it became clear that the European Commission would propose legislative changes with which the Member States of the European Union would be obliged to recognise gay marriages, parental rights of same-sex couples, as well as transsexual people throughout the European Union. The Parliamentary Group of the United Patriarchs is strongly opposed to these scandalous proposals, as they are contrary to the Christian values of the traditional Bulgarian family, which consists of a mother, father and their children. The absurd changes are laid down in the strategy for equality of lesbians, gays, bisexuals, transsexuals, non-binars, intersexuals and queer-vides known as LGBTI. It is even more scandal that the Strategy, written by the European Commission, was made at the insistence of Commission President Ursula von der Lyon, who, in his annual speech to the European Parliament on the state of the Union, requested that the rights of the LGBTI community be strengthened. According to the Bulgarian legislation and the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, marriage is a voluntary union between a man and a woman. At IMRO's insistence, this formulation is laid down in the New Constitution Project, which will counteract Europe's pressure to change legislation in order to legalise same-sex marriages. We have the bad European examples. At the beginning of 2019 Germany legalized the third sex, and in birth certificates except as a man and a woman the Germans have a third opportunity to sign up as another. In France, an amendment was proposed, whereby in the school forms the notions of mother and father to be replaced by one parent and two parents, so that the rights of homosexual parents would not be affected. We oppose sorosoid NGOs such as the Bulgarian Helsinki Committee and other NGOs known for their anti-Bulgarian activities, as well as left-wing liberal parties that promote gender ideology and become accomplices to the destruction of fundamental moral values in Europe. We absolutely do not accept the Istanbul Convention, the homosexual propaganda in schools and kindergartens, as well as the holding of gay parades that have shrouded and intruded the sexual orientation of the participants in them. Each of us has a sacred duty to the future generations and the future of the Bulgarian children. On the eve of Christian Family Day, we are obliged to promise that we will protect Bulgarian family and Christian values and be uncompromising with harmful liberal attempts to impose sexes, outside of traditional male and female, and the suggestion that parents can be different from mother and father. The battle to protect traditional Christian family values is now a major battle in Europe. The claims of recognition of gay marriages and of third, fourth and so forth are only part of the attacks on the national state, our Christian faith and our family as an institution. From the parliamentary group of "United patriots" we know what is the alternative for Bulgaria and for Europe. That's patriotism!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u41	Thank you, dear Mrs. Tsvetkova. We continue with the first item of today's agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE HEALTH LAW. Mrs. Daritkova, I'd like you to brief us on the Health Committee report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u42	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Health Act No 054-01-105, submitted by Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova on 13 November 2020. At its extraordinary meeting held on 18 November 2020, the Committee on Health examined and discussed a bill amending and supplementing the Health Act, No 054-01-105, submitted by Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova on 13 November 2020. The meeting was attended by Deputy Minister of Health Mrs. Zheny Nacheva and representatives of the word organizations in the field of health. The bill and its motives were presented by Dr. Daniela Daritkova, who informed the MPs that the current legislative initiative is related to the growing spread of the COVID-19 virus and taking the necessary measures to limit it to the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. With the proposed regulatory changes in art. 61 of the Health Act aims to refine the text of the provision with regard to the existing requirement for mandatory hospital treatment of persons suffering from or infectious diseases under art. 61, para. 1 of the Law. Dr. Daritkova emphasized on the fact that the existing provision of art. 61 of the Health Act is systematically included in Chapter II, Section V.The surveillance of infectious diseases and refers only to mandatory hospital treatment as a type of anti-epidemic measure to limit the spread of the disease concerned and not as an obligation to treat in the conditions of hospital medical care due to the presence of one of the diseases referred to in that Article. She stressed that a clear distinction should be made between hospital treatment for isolation and hospital treatment in medical indications. Dr. Daritkova pointed out that the treatment of every Bulgarian citizen is appointed by a doctor based on the clinical condition of the person, regardless of what disease he suffers from. According to her, it is not appropriate and justified to use hospital care facilities only for the purpose of isolation of patients, without the existence of actual medical indications for hospitalization only because they are sick of or contagious of diseases under art. 61, para. 1 of the Health Act. Additional possibilities shall also be created for the implementation of the powers of regional health inspections concerning the placing of persons positive for the COVID-19 and their contact persons of compulsory isolation or quarantine with the prescription of the director of the regional health inspection concerned. The proposed amendments aim to reduce the administrative burden of regional health inspections and to ensure the proper and lawful application of isolation and quarantine measures. It is proposed to establish a legal possibility to serve the prescriptions for placing under isolation or quarantine of the persons concerned by oral notification or digital communications. In this way, the activities of inspections will be supported and the workload of health inspectors will be reduced in the performance of their duties and responsibilities in the field of surveillance and control of anti-epidemic measures in the context of the COVID-19. Normal changes are proposed in view of the fact that the registered on average per day newly infected with COVID-19 persons in the country has dramatically increased, while the chronic personnel shortage in RZI accumulated in recent years hinders the timely application of anti-epidemic measures. In relation to the wording of the provision of art. 61 of the Health Act, the Final Regulations also make the necessary amendments to the relevant laws. The Bill also proposes amendments and additions to the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, creating a legal possibility in the event of a declared emergency or declared an emergency epidemic situation, the Minister of Health ordered to ban for a certain period of time the export of medicinal products from the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thus, it aims to ensure sufficient quantities of medicinal products to meet the health needs of the population of the Republic of Bulgaria. Dr. Daritkova explained that the expected results of the implementation of the proposed regulations are related to ensuring timely protection of the citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria from the spread of the CoVID-19 virus, as well as the consequences of the deteriorating epidemic situation in the country in recent weeks. The written opinions of the Ministry of Health, the Bulgarian Medical Union, the Bulgarian Dental Union, the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union and the Bulgarian Generical Pharmaceutical Association express principle support for the proposed legislative changes. Some of these include specific proposals on the texts of some of the provisions proposed to be discussed between the first and second votes on the bill. During the discussion, the members of the Committee on Health discussed the proposed amendments and additions and raised specific questions regarding the removal of mandatory hospital treatment of persons suffering from and infectious diseases by art. 61, para. 1 of the Health Act. The Members of the National Assembly agreed that the texts of some of the proposed provisions should be further discussed and refined between the first and second votes of the Draft. On the basis of the discussion held and the vote taken by 10 votes for the Health Act, No 054-01-105, submitted by Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova on 13 November 2020, the National Assembly proposed to adopt a draft amendment and supplement to the Health Act, No 054-01-105, submitted by Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova on 13 November 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u43	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. Importer's Opinion........................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u44	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The current legislative initiative is related to the growing prevalence of coronavirus causing the disease of COVID-19 and to taking the necessary measures to limit it to the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. With the proposed regulatory changes in art. 61 the Health Act aims to refine the text with regard to anti-epidemic measures and the existing requirement for mandatory hospital treatment of persons suffering from or infectious diseases, according to art. 61, para. 1 of the Law. With regard to speculation in the media space after the introduction of this bill, I would like to emphasise that the proposed changes in no way aim at granting the state responsibility for the health of people who need hospital treatment and are sick of COVID-19. I want to remind you how we changed art. 61 at the beginning of the emergency situation and we listed, among other particularly dangerous infections, such as plague, typhoid, such as polio, diphtherite and others, which are clearly defined by medical experts as particularly dangerous, we added COVID-19 when we did not know the characteristic and the course of this disease, because there was no other possibility to introduce anti-epidemic and quarantine measures. Once again, I would like to stress that this article is located in the chapter of the Chapter of the Chapter on Infectious Diseases, that is to say, it is only about the introduction of anti-epidemic measures aimed at limiting the spread of the infection. Even then, colleagues from the opposition, specifically from the BSP for Bulgaria, expressed offensive opinions, believing that COVID-19 could not relate to the particularly dangerous infections, that mandatory hospital treatment as a measure violates the rights of Bulgarian citizens. Even now, colleagues from BSP, as the example of Professor Mihailov, express in the media the opinion that his recommendation, I quote: My opinion and my recommendation is to clarify the very indications of hospitalization. If you switch to general hospitalization, you will break the health system. Honourable Members, when we introduced the Union, even on a proposal from colleagues from the opposition in the Chamber, the mandatory hospital treatment was dropped by some of the members of this law, a ambiguous interpretation of the text is allowed. It is not clear when, as an anti-epidemic measure, mandatory isolation will be used, whether this is mandatory and with hospital treatment and when one of the two measures will be applied, in this case whether hospital treatment does not require mandatory isolation. I therefore believe that there is a need to refine the text and I expect real proposals between first and second readings, because I want the experts to clearly tell about which infectious diseases, which are particularly dangerous infections, compulsory isolation and hospital treatment to go simultaneously and for which only one of the two measures is required. Once again, I would like to stress that I was surprised by the change of opinion regarding the same regulation within just a few months. I believe that when it comes to the health of Bulgarian citizens, the messages to society must be scientifically and medically supported in order not to create further confusion and chaos among the population. The bill also creates additional opportunities for implementing the powers of regional health inspections concerning the placing of persons positive for the COVID-19 and their contact persons of compulsory isolation or quarantine with a prescription from the director of the regional health inspection concerned. The proposed amendments aim to reduce the administrative burden of RGIs and to ensure the proper and lawful application of isolation and quarantine measures, propose the establishment of a regulatory possibility for the provision of prescriptions for placing under isolation or quarantine of the persons concerned by oral notification or digital communications. In this way, the activities of inspections will be supported and the workload of health inspectors will be reduced in carrying out their duties and responsibilities in the field of surveillance and control of anti-epidemic measures in the context of the coronavirus epidemic. Normal changes are proposed in view of the fact that the registered on average per day newly infected with coronavirus individuals in the country are increasing dramatically and at the same time the chronic personnel deficiency in RZI accumulated in recent years hinders the timely application of anti-epidemic measures. We know that even fellow Members of the National Assembly have volunteered to allow for the timely spread of quarantine regulations among citizens. In relation to the wording of the provision of art. 61 of the Health Act and the Final Regulations the necessary amendments to the relevant laws shall be made. The Bill also proposes amendments and additions to the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, creating a legal possibility in the event of a declared emergency or declared an emergency epidemic situation, the Minister of Health ordered to prohibit the export of medicinal products for which a shortage has been established... [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u45	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u46	...in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. This is due to the fact that so far we have only signed such a norm in the Law, which relates to the state of emergency on the occasion of the COVID-19. We believe that a durable regulation that guarantees in the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine security in sufficient quantities of medicines in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria allows for a response even in other crises, not only in relation to this epidemic crisis, but also others, to guarantee sufficient quantities by prohibiting the export of medicines found to be insufficient. The expected results of the implementation of the proposed legislation are related to ensuring timely protection of the citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria from the spread of the COVID-19 virus, as well as to overcome the consequences of the deteriorating epidemic situation in the country in recent months. I count on the support of the reasonable MPs in plenary for this legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u47	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor for speeches, colleagues. Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u48	Madam President, honourable Members! First of all, I'd like to say that the acoustics in the auditorium are not good at all, and there's nothing in the back row that you can hear. Perhaps you, Madam President, should do what is necessary to improve acoustics.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u49	Yeah, yeah. Please see what we can do.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u50	Dear colleagues, today we are being proposed to make a change in the Health Act and in some other laws on the grounds that we are so involved in the general idea of dealing with the Kovid pandemic. Is that really true? Today we need to think about whether patients with acute infectious diseases, with severe infectious diseases with high mortality, should have mandatory hospital treatment. Today we are not just talking about a horse, today we are talking about, and by the way Dr Daritkova rightly said, about diseases such as cholera, such as plague, like smallpox, where it is obvious that the sick cannot be isolated and are not subject to mandatory hospital treatment. Yeah, a few months ago, a very mechanical mold was added to this group, maybe because there wasn't enough time and because we didn't know him enough. But today, if we have another opinion about a horse and we believe that there may not be mandatory hospital treatment there, it is not for other diseases, because a breed in a series of dozen diseases is the last disease, so we cannot cancel the mandatory hospital treatment for all these diseases. Because if a cholera patient comes to us tomorrow from Africa, which is an option, and he refuses hospital treatment, we won't have the basis for him to be on mandatory hospital treatment. Secondly, mandatory insulation is offered. The obligation of isolation in Bulgarian healthcare over the years, at least as far as I know it, went with mandatory hospital treatment, because when it came to the necessary isolation, there the patient was admitted to infectious wards, and in these infectious wards conditions were created for this mandatory isolation. They met a regulation, criteria, building permits and so on. Today, when we introduce the term "mandatory isolation" without hospital treatment, we do not know what criteria, what parameters this mandatory isolation meets. And if the patient decides to be isolated at home, we don't know if he has the capacity to actually carry out his mandatory isolation, because the mandatory isolation of acute infectious diseases, and I repeat, today we are talking not only about a horse, we are also talking about other diseases who will be in contact with him, how will he be cared for, how will the treatment be carried out? After all, you are all aware that in my opinion more than 50% of Bulgarian citizens cannot fulfil the parameters of these conditions, which meet the mandatory isolation in their homes. And we have to admit that they do not have the financial opportunity to carry out this mandatory isolation. Therefore, I think that the proposal, which is a meaningful proposal, has not been made simply in the right way. But even today, even in advance, it had to be done so that we could separate into a separate group of COVID-19 and take the necessary legislative initiatives and decisions that need to be followed. This is also the case with the second proposal to ease the work of regional health inspections and to turn them into..., that is, to use the possibilities of a call centre. This can be accepted under the conditions of a horse pandemic, because a head of RZI, for example in Plovdiv, today has to sign 500, 600 or 1000 prescriptions, which is practically very difficult to implement. But tomorrow, when we won't have a pandemic, that will apply to other infections, that will also apply to the plague, to cholera, to all those prescriptions that are issued when we, for God's sake, don't have patients with these diseases. It is simply here that the principle should apply that we separate the acute contagious, severe and socially significant infectious diseases of the species and adopt solutions that are for the pandemic with the COVID-19. As for the proposal for medicines, yes, this is a meaningful proposal that we cannot fail to support. But in principle, we would like the Law to be selected, proposals and solutions for authorisations, which concern dealing with the pandemic with CIVID-19, to be separated from other significant infectious diseases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u51	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Chakarov, come in for a statement. Are there any other requests to make a statement? Yes, Mr. Popovski will have a statement after that.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u52	Madam President, honourable Members! We of the DPS will not support the proposed changes to the Health Act. We have our serious arguments for this, and we are not opposed simply by the position of opposition. We will not support the proposal to drop the words for mandatory hospital treatment after the listing of a series of dangerous infectious diseases, including COVID-19, in art. 61, because that means putting public health at risk. This article lists persons who are subject to mandatory isolation and/or hospital treatment because they are sick or are contagious to such dangerous infectious diseases, such as cholera, plague, smallpox, yellow fever, viral haemorrhagic fever, diphtheria, typhoid typhus, poliomyelitis, brucellosis, anthrax, malaria and so on, and finally recorded COVID-19. In our view, there is no strong argument for the proposed change, apart from the purely formal sentence, that this is done in order to clarify the wording of the provision with regard to the existing requirement for mandatory hospital treatment of people with CIVID-19. Yes, when we recorded COVID-19, we were still at the beginning of the pandemic, and there was no information on both the mechanisms of spreading this virus infection and its treatment. Now we know that patients with coronavirus can be treated at home, at home, not necessarily in a hospital. But from the so proposed change of art. 61 it follows that the Director of the relevant regional health inspection, on a proposal from the treating physician with a prescription, is almost entirely unable to direct for mandatory hospital treatment a person suffering from contagious disease under art. 61, para. 1 or para. 3. Since the adoption of this law in 2004 until today, the state's right through the director of the regional health inspection concerned has never been questioned to give a mandatory prescription for the hospital treatment of a person suffering from any of these diseases. This text is a guarantee of the protection of public interest and of the health of society. Second, this article is also bound by art. 215, which currently regulates the possibility of imposing a sanction on a person suffering from contagious disease under art. 61, para. 1 or para. 3 if he refuses his prescribed hospital treatment and also the possibility of forced delivery with the assistance of the authorities of the Ministry of Interior of a person who refused to volunteer for his prescribed hospital treatment. I note that COVID-19 is only one of the contagious diseases in those paragraphs, certainly not the scariest of them. We must not jeopardize public interest and put public health at risk. We must not allow there to be a legal option when the doctor considers that hospital treatment is necessary for a person suffering from cholera or from the already listed infectious diseases, he may refuse to apply for hospital treatment and the state does not have legal means to force him to do so. There should be no legal possibility in the other direction, namely when a doctor considers that a person suffering from these diseases needs hospital treatment, the state should abdicate its obligations to provide it with one. The prescription of the Director of the relevant RGI is now mandatory for both the sick and the state in terms of precisely providing such an opportunity for hospital treatment as is considered necessary. With the withdrawal of the hospital treatment, the state and hospitals are exempt from taking responsibility for not applying hospital treatment from these diseases if necessary and thus will not be able to qualify as withdrawal of treatment, respectively patients will not be able to sue the state or hospitals for refusing treatment. We cannot, under the pretext of clarifying a provision, give up a guaranteed hospital provision for patients with already listed infectious diseases. In practice, we will legalize the refusal of treatment, and it will be dangerous infectious diseases, not only in cases such as the basically vegetative, but along with them and others. Third, if we approve the proposed change of art. 61, we will provoke doubts in society that we are doing this on a conjunctural basis, given the difficulties our health system is currently experiencing because of the CoVID-19 pandemic. In view of the current pandemic of COVID-19 and the enormous pressure on our health system, overcrowded with Coronavirus patients or wards intended for this purpose, and the difficulties for those who received hospital treatments due to lack of accommodation in the free bed compartments, especially due to lack of doctors and medical staff with the so proposed change in art. 61 we will leave doubts in society that in this way the state will almost abdicate from its responsibilities for the treatment of the sick of a horse when I stress this......................................................................................... With regard to the proposed changes, the RI should be able to quarantine over the phone by text or electronic means, it is a good idea that deserves to be supported between first and second readings after the relevant changes that will be made and the control that must necessarily be traced and contact persons should be quarantined. I would like to present the official position of the World Health Organisation yesterday that the situation with the spread of the cod epidemic in Europe is so serious that new measures are needed. Unfortunately, this also applies to our country. I hardly need to point out a bad statistic. In Europe, we are already in third place on mortality, and we really need to assess, analyse and take, if necessary, new measures so as to overcome this situation. I would like to express the position of our parliamentary group that, between first and second readings, following the clarification of the text with a clear outline of the scope, the framework and the objectives that we set with these changes, we would support them and we would be involved with relevant proposals. If there is a working group, we would be constructively involved in achieving working texts that are right to society in this situation, and we would not want to leave any doubt that the state can abdicate its responsibilities. The situation is serious and in view of this perhaps it is good to hear the voice of experienced colleagues such as Professor Kostov and Dr. Simidchiev for a mass testing and the means that would go for such a purpose would hardly be in more than the money and funds that need to be spent and provided for hospital treatment. And that would be a good prevention in order for those who are positive to be quarantined, isolated in order to stop this wave that should bother us all and be concerned absolutely all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u53	Thank you, dear Mr. Chakarov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Popovski, come in for a statement. Do we have any other comments? I can't see.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u54	Madam President, honourable Members! The Group of the United Patriarchs will support this law, in which some additional measures can be put in place for the second reading. It comes wisely and on time in a new situation facing Bulgaria in the last 30, 40, 50 days. Firstly, the eight-month experience that the state already has in the treatment of this disease really requires these new measures. Two things are very important that clinical experts from colleagues understand them. First of all, it really isn't a particularly dangerous infection, like cholera, plague and some others. But this infection, although not particularly dangerous, has a very high infectious index. In other words, one patient infects others very quickly and really sensitive increases in hospitalized patients and in general the sick in the last 40 days are dramatically endangering the health system. Therefore, these new measures are being imposed. Second, 5600 patients are currently in the hospital, 50 days ago they were under 500. Now the number of hospitalizations has increased about 10 times. At exactly the same time in late September and early October, the patients in intensive care ward were 50 people, now 313 and growing every day, and these 320 controlled ventilation machines, which the government purchased as early as spring, are on the verge of exhaustion at the present time. This requires a change in the Law, to really be at the level of our responsibility and to make really reasonable decisions what adjustments we should make for second reading, and also to stop parallel drug exports, so that these situations do not occur in the pharmacies that we have at this time do not reach medication, to give the Minister the right to quickly, expertly stop parallel exports in order not to have this situation. The other is the new technical means with the messages to control the patients in quarantine, because the quarantine of the people is very important so that they do not infect new patients. I'm going back to the situation without being a particularly dangerous infection, this infection has a very high contingent index. You see the rapid spread that requires us to take these measures, so we will support the Bill at first reading with possible additional amendments to the second if necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u55	Thank you, Dr. Popovski. Colleagues, any other speeches? Mrs. Naydenova! [[Relations from the National Representative Milko Nedyalkov.]] Nobody's in a hurry to leave, Mr. Nedyalkov. We still have six more points.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u56	Madam President, honourable Members! I'll be brief. In the current situation, we need to think very carefully about whether hospital treatment should be abandoned, because some of the people who have nowhere to go are not talking about those who do not have a home, I am not talking about those who have young children and are endangering the lives of others, they should be admitted to the hospital, so very carefully in the next discussion we need to assess in which cases the patient is for hospital treatment and in which case it is not. This, aside. We need to be careful when we change the law. But I think we're wrong in principle. If by now COVID-19 is the lighter form, tomorrow or the day after can hit us something even more severe than these infectious diseases that you see and are mentioned. Then what are we doing? We must, together with the event from which we cannot escape and fight from all sides, both below and above, must go things in a slightly different way. It's to limit the spread, because disaster can always happen. But for the distribution, we must have the rules already laid down. It was a kind of exercise. We need to divide the patients into contactants, to the sick, to those who are infectious, and hence, by these groups, we need to assess who, where, how, what should be done and this should be written by the specialists, then see where the Law will be broken, what should change the National Assembly, and we should already have this gross network, which can undoubtedly not be that network 30 or 40 years ago, when the sanitary inspector came, was glued with a sticky sticky sticky! and we need to update this system, but we are now trying with legislative measures to save the situation in the state. There's nothing wrong with that. We don't have a choice! But now we have to be done with the corresponding directions I told you about. Therefore, the idea of a working group is very good, although we are a little late. But perhaps from the experience that those who encounter and are on the front, including the Ministry of Health, we will be able to channel things now and in one subsequent blow it can be tomorrow, it can be the day after tomorrow, don't let God happen, right away to know what. And, secondly, this should not be information that should be hidden, as it has been in the previous 30 years, when there were people for whom, for their silence and keeping these plans, they received additional rewards. On the contrary, it must be known by the population to be prepared. At the very least, it should be known by medical professionals. These are the three directions I wanted to tell you about. Let's take our time, see what situations the hospital's treatment remains in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u57	Thank you, dear Mrs. Naydenova. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Nedyalkov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u58	Thank you, Madam President. It's a very brief procedure. In the good spirit of today's discussion, let me remind you to upload the Program for the Work of the National Assembly, which is up-to-date, to the website of the National Assembly. Because I got calls saying there's a confusing program for our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u59	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. I'll check right away and remove the pass. Mr. Ivanov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u60	Madam President, honourable Members! I take the floor because at least I have contacts with a lot of doctors, including in my family, and this topic is being seriously commented. I have been chosen from an area where this problem is extremely serious and where things are almost out of control. I'm very interested in the subject, although I'm not with medical education, which someone might criticize me here for taking the floor on this subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u61	They won't criticize you, Mr. Ivanov. Everyone can speak from here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u62	Thank you, Madam President. I can only remind my colleagues that when they adopted the amendments to the Health Act and the Law on Electronic Communications, where there was also some attitude, I was also quite active in March when the Law on Measures was adopted during the emergency situation, then the discussion was extremely severe and serious about what should be done, how it should be acted. What I want to do to you as a note and to which my attention was directed after conversations, after complaints, if you will, from patients, from doctors, are the vague motives for dropping the wording of the hospital treatment in the Health Act, where only the text remains the mandatory isolation. If there is no specific explanation or more precise precision between first and second readings precisely these texts, the concern remains mostly in patients that the state abdicates the problem. What do I mean? Patients, especially in the region from which I am elected, expressed concern people who are currently sick and have patients around them that thus avoid their treatment in a hospital. Understand me, it's not my job here to cause panic among the population, I just want a logical, normal explanation: what's next? This isolation, which remains in the Law, and it is understandable to remain in such infectious diseases, why is it dropping out of the hospital treatment? Because here, apart from the COVID-19, there are a number of other diseases that are infectious, for which we had a very severe debate in March, when we adopted the Law on Measures during the emergency situation. People are worried about whether this is one attempt not to have any more reports about people dying on the stairs about these problems that are happening with the transportation of patients in severe condition from one medical facility to another with ambulances of Understand, these concerns are justified, really justified, and must be made clear here and now what is being done, what is being done and what will be the result, whether there will be an improvement of this version already in force in the Law, or whether it will remain so I quite well-intentionedly... with all due respect to you, and to the importer, I appeal to do so, and to speak in such a way that people are calm, to be sure that the medical facilities will be open to them. Otherwise, I don't want to say it here, but we will come to the hypothesis when, being standing on the threshold of a breakdown of the health system, I will not accept patients. I hope that is not the purpose of this bill and what we are going to vote on right now. Understand, the topic is extremely important here and now is the place to discuss and then the Health Commission, because I also heard Mrs Daritkova comment to the media that between first and second reading the texts will be refined. Does this mean that a new text will be submitted to you more accurately, with precise and clear criteria for who will be hospitalized, or will this hospital treatment not return to the Law at all? Finally, in conclusion, as I say again, I do not want to go deeper into the subject matter in which I am not a specialist, but I only expressed my concerns to my constituents from the area where the situation is extremely severe at the moment..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Constitutional Court also had to rule on the unconstitutionality of what was adopted now, and now we are changing the Law. My request is that you listen more to the opposition's voice, because then we didn't do it with any intent to be you vulnerable and so on, but only with the thought of preserving the rights of Bulgarian citizens, something that was obviously broken and violated for months, so the Constitutional Court had to rule. So that this remains a note for the future in such changes not to work in a way that violates the rights of Bulgarian citizens, but to work in a way that protects them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u63	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mrs. Daritkova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u64	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear colleagues of the opposition, please do not speculate on the proposals. I do not assume that this is from a misunderstanding of the texts, because you have been in the National Assembly for four years now and you need to know how to read laws. Once again, I will repeat that the text of art. 61 is located in the head of the Health Act, which concerns the supervision of infectious diseases. Here are described the anti-epidemic measures in particularly dangerous infections, such as plague, cholera, deferitis, polio and others, and isolation and anti-epidemic measures go with mandatory hospital treatment. This was the case in this text, which was introduced in the Law from 2004 to March this year, and there was only the Union....................................... and the isolation involved mandatory hospital treatment. This law does not explain the indications of hospitalization and there are no laws, and there is no disease in which to describe the indications of hospitalization, it is subject to a completely different regulation. And since COVID-19 as a emerging disease also required quarantine measures, we March recorded it along with the particularly dangerous infections. Indeed, at the time we did not know the nature of the disease and there were many objections from colleagues on the left that this is not a particularly dangerous infection, I hope that at least that is what you remember, only that there was no other mechanism to introduce anti-epidemic measures. Then, apart from the Union, we recorded the "or" because we were convinced that the quarantine could also take place at home and a large percentage of the colleagues were quarantined and are currently quarantined at home. Once again, I repeat that any patient for whom hospital treatment is required, and this is in the opinion of the treating physician, can rely on one and are speculation all statements that claim that this is the way the state abdicates. Please, colleagues, really in the battle with the coronavirus, with the epidemic we must be united and give messages that really soothe the Bulgarian society. This must not politicise the problem and I stress that this is the point of my proposal. I hope that the texts will really be refined because you see that when the Union is written, it is not clear when we have indications of mandatory hospital treatment and this cannot be signed. I therefore believe that, in the course of the discussion, we can truly unite and take into account all the opinions and between first and second readings to differentiate diseases. Those who are particularly dangerous infections can also be updated because, for example, there is no disease such as ebola, which is also relevant, why it should not reach Bulgaria, and at the same time there is smallpox, which has long been eradicated. Once again, the 2004 text has not been changed. In these diseases isolation as a way of anti-epidemic measure will go with mandatory hospital treatment, but in CIVID-19 isolation may be sufficient in patients because the facts are clear that 80% of patients with COVID-19 do not need hospital treatment. Colleagues, let us once again be united in the messages, especially in the complex epidemic environment, and look for this legislative framework that allows people who work on the ground to carry out their activities calmly. I appeal for support to this bill by reasonable MPs. All reasonable opinions and proposals between first and second readings, I guarantee that they will be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u65	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. - What's the line? Mr. Ivanov has a line. Come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u66	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Daritkova, perhaps you didn't understand in my speech what the accent was. I listened carefully to your presentation, though my superficial knowledge, if I may say, on infectious diseases mostly as a patient in the past, when, when I have suffered such a thing, I do not wish anyone to be ill, I do not understand, and my colleagues also, I suppose, the need to drop out of this particular word........................................................................ In practice, everyone, reading the text as you suggest it to remain, not only the CIVID-19, but for all other infectious diseases should be dropped for them as well,.................................. and only isolation. That's how we understand it. The request in my speech was to explain exactly what the idea is, what will follow, how the text will be refined. Yes, you are right that other regulations describe the order in which it is, but when this thing is done in law, you claim that until March 2020 it was mandatory Understand it, we are doing it well and we are talking it here to make it clear why it is done. Because the questions I ask you are asked by other people, I don't ask them. I am a conductor of the concerns of a wide range of Bulgarian society who are both victims and working on the first line with this disease for these conversations. By no means accuse us of any political bias, because with this disease we are all struggling, and you are suffering. I hope as little as possible to suffer from this disease, and in my family there are people who have gone through this disease. So we expect from you these concerns that I have expressed here on behalf of those who are victims who are struggling with the disease...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u67	The weather, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u68	...to be somehow disproved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u69	Thank you. Second line? Will there be a hole? Mrs. Daritkova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u70	Dear Mr. Ivanov, I hope with our joint efforts to dispel the concerns of those who closely monitor the activities of the Bulgarian Parliament and all legislative initiatives, because I am really committed to clarifying the texts. If the Ministry of Health and experts tell me exactly what are the diseases where mandatory hospital treatment is an element of the anti-epidemic measure, I have some ideas, but we still need an expert opinion, we will make a division of the texts because it will be more precise. In a disease like the plague to have mandatory isolation and hospital treatment. The Union is a problem even in these diseases. Even with these diseases, there can now be a turning interpretation of when one measure is taken or the other, as we have written it now in the Law, and at the same time I continue to argue that all patients with a coronavirus who need hospital treatment at the discretion of a doctor go to a hospital for hospital care. Yet these patients are about 20% of all those who have a coronavirus infection. The higher percentage of patients can only remain isolated at home, so hospital treatment can not be mandatory and cannot be an element of the anti-epidemic measure. Once again, fellow Members, I would like to repeat in order to dispel the speculation that we are talking about surveillance of infectious diseases, anti-epidemic measures, and not indications of one or another treatment, we are discussing this at the moment and that is what we have proposed. I really ask for a correct understanding, a correct representation of society, because it is very important that the messages be one-way and not cause panic.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u71	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I put to the first vote the bill amending and supplementing the Health Act. Importer Daniela Daritkova, on 13 November 2020 Please vote mode and colleagues who are remotely involved in the vote. Mrs. Alexandrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u72	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u73	Mr. Rashidov? I don't see him. Mr. Kasabov? I can't see him either. Georgi Kolev? I don't see him. Daniela Dimitrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u74	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u75	Please turn on your microphones. Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u76	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u77	Mr. Apostolov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u78	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u79	Mr. Popov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u80	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u81	Mr. Shishkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u82	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u83	Mr. Nunev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u84	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u85	I see Mr. Rashidov is on the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u86	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u87	Abort the vote and announce the result. Eight voted remotely and 156 in the Chamber, became a total vote of 164 MPs: 98 in the House plus 8 in the House, became 106, against 4, abstention 54. The motion is accepted. Mr. Ivanov, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u88	Madam President, honourable Members! I am doing a procedure to extend the return bill of the Code of Commercial Shipping by one week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u89	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. We are voting on the procedure Mr. Ivanov just did. Colleagues who are remote, please join us. Mrs. Alexandrova? I don't see her. Mr. Kasabov, I don't see him. Mr. Rashidov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u90	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u91	Mr. Kolev? I don't see him. Mrs. Dimitrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u92	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u93	Ivelina Vassileva? I can't see. Yordan Apostolov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u94	(OP, via internet conference platform) : For.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u95	Konstantin Popov? I don't see him. Mr. Shishkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u96	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u97	Mr. Popov says it is. Mr. Nunev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u98	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u99	Thank you. They voted remotely 6 MPs. They voted 130 in the Chamber and 6 online.. became 136: for 120 in the Chamber and 6 remote.. 126, not against, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. Moving on to point two: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR SAFEGUARDING THE ENVIRONMENT. Importers were Ivelina Vassileva and a group of MPs on 23 October 2020. Adopted at first vote on 13 November 2020. Since it's a second reading, let's thank our colleagues who are remotely voting. Perhaps only Mrs. Vasileva will want to be included in this bill so that she can vote, as she is the chairman of this committee. Mr. Tsvetkov, please report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u100	Madam President, honourable Members! I present to you: "Project for amendment and supplement of the Law on the Protection of the Environment" (prom., SG No. ...)??...................................................................... The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes the following version of the name of the Law: The Law on the Protection of the Environment is amended and supplemented by the Law on the Protection of the Environment. According to paragraph, the only one has a proposal from the MPs Manol Genov and Rumen Georgiev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Vasil Tsvetkov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of paragraph only, which shall become § 1: ................................................................................... In § 41 of the transitional and final provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the Environment (Art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget 1. In para. 1 words within two years of the entry into force of this law shall be replaced by an application in the respective pool directorate for the entry into force of this law by the relevant pool directorate by 28 November 2022. 2. Paragraph 7 is amended as follows: . (7) The owners of wells for meeting the citizens' own needs located within the boundaries of settlements and settlements for which no applications for entry have been submitted until 27 November 2018 in the register under art. 118d, para. 3, p. 5 of the Water Act, submit an application by 28 November 2022 in the respective pool directorate for the entry of facilities in the register. The application shall contain the information for the registration of a well defined in the ordinance under art. 135, para. 1, t. 2 of the Water Act. 3. The creation of para. 8. . (8) The application under para. 7 can also be submitted through the respective mayor of the municipality, mayor of the district, mayor of the town hall or mayor's deputy at the location of the well. Mayors and mayors issue an entry number for each application received and every 14 days transmit to the respective pool directorate the applications received in that period. The Commission proposes to establish a name "Concluding provision: § 2. The Law shall enter into force from 27 November 2020
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u101	Statements, coworkers? Mr. Chakarov and Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u102	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We in the parliamentary group of.................. the movement for rights and freedoms............................and at first reading we supported these changes to the proposed.... of the Law........................... It is really appropriate to have such registration, to know the picture with regard to groundwater, to have statistics to keep, to provide, to plan and predict the destruction of these waters. But it is good to be clear that these changes have started and from the delays, the changes come with a view to achieving these objectives, from 1999 to now this registration has been postponed several times. This is another delay in achieving the goals we are putting in front of us. In view of this, our view is that there should be activity on both the part of citizens who use such wells and wells, it is good to have activity on the part of the state, the administration, respectively by the representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Water. I said that we support the proposal of BSP colleagues, mayors of mayors and municipalities to assist citizens, but our idea is, in fact, and that is why I am speaking, it is good when organizing these campaigns or activities in the settlements, to have mobile groups from the Ministry of Environment and Water to support this activity, because both mayors and citizens are not hydroengineers, hydrologists and they do not know this matter, to assist and expertly so as to properly shape their documentation and to be registered, charged and then have traceability. On the part of the Ministry of Environment and Water expressed such readiness and said it was a matter of organisation. I also believe that this is a question of a good will organisation, and citizens would be very strongly helped to achieve this goal and we would be correct and we would fulfil the conditions and framework that are laid down in the Water Framework Directive, so we hope that in the future, once these texts are voted again today, respectively, the extension of the deadline for another two years, in this time frame, all the joint citizens and a state in the face of administration, mainly the MOEW, will be active and that this objective will be realized. But it is very important to be helped, I stress, and this is our proposal on behalf of the DPS parliamentary group, because many people called us from the villages to receive such assistance and we rely on active position and assistance from the structures of the Ministry of Environment and Water, respectively the Basin Directorates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. - What's the line? Continue with your speech. Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u104	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! We from the BSP for Bulgaria and we will support this bill, but we are witnessing once again that the Kovid crisis is being used again to extend the deadline for one of the dozens of already bills in this mandate, which we extend the term and this has become a kind of tradition and practice in adopting and developing legislation. Count it, there may be dozens of laws. What does that say? That says someone didn't do their job. This period, which we are now moving two years ahead, has been hanging for several years, and apparently someone from the Ministry of Environment and Water, who is personalized with responsibilities for the implementation of this law and the administration of these texts, whether for registration of drilling for personal needs or business purposes, has not done his job. I haven't heard any explanatory, informational campaign that Dr. Chakarov was talking about before. Money is being given by the Ministry for future and other information campaigns on operational programs, on other explanatory events, but nothing has been done by the Ministry in this particular matter so far. That is why we want the work to be so organized on the implementation of this law, because in the last settlement people should know that they need to declare their bucket in the bunker or pump in the drilling, and they should be aware of how, how and how it is done. Until now, there has been extremely little interaction to implement these provisions with local authorities. Our proposals, which we have made and I hope you will support them, are precisely in this direction, increasing this interaction, we have borrowed some texts from the Veterinary Activity Act, where really the effectiveness of the work of mayors of settlements, mayors of mayors and mayors of municipalities is extremely effective and this gives positive results. We therefore hope that by 28 November 2022, the provisions of this law will indeed be implemented, that this period will not have to be extended again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u105	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Are there any lines? I won't. Is there a statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u106	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will make a procedural proposal to vote separately. Since the paragraph is the only one, let's vote separate para. 1 and para. 7, since I would like to express a particular attitude towards para. 1 and allow me to motivate myself why. Alinea 1 concerns the economic consumption of groundwater until para. 7 is about the bit. And if we can already be sure that the Bulgarians are referring to the registration of wells exactly as most of them also relate to the compliance with epidemiological measures, that is, extremely irresponsible, for quite a long time the delay in the registration of underground consumption. I would like a separate vote, since in my opinion, the term under para. One in two years is pretty long. I'd like to provide you with some data and let you know what they are. The Ministry of Environment and Water has currently submitted 343 requests for water use for economic use, of which 241 such water sources are registered for underground water for business purposes. The permits issued, colleagues, so far, are only 13. And their volume by reference to the MOEW, their total cube is 567 thousand. 555 cube. I'm just... [[GERB lines.]] No, I'm making an offer. If you do, do a line for me. There is a chairman of the National Assembly. According to expert information, the unregistered wells are about 1300. Let's do the following account with you: if for 13 permits currently issued the volume of water use from groundwater is 567 thousand. Cube. M per year, is it logical for 1300 to be around 57 million. Cube. - Mm-hmm. - Mm-hmm. Yeah, that makes sense. That is why I am proposing in para. 1 the term to be replaced from 2022 to 2021 only under para. 1. I believe that one project resource of 57 million. Cube. m per year should be managed much more sustainablely. Secondly, any self-respecting company may take action within one year to make a request, obtain a water permit and, respectively, enter into regulation. That's my offer, and that was my motive, 57 million. Cube. m are subject to your attention to their sustainable management. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u107	Mr. Kostadinov, just a moment to clarify. In § 1, t. 1 You are now proposing that, instead of the "28 November 2022" it be "28 November 2021."
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u108	Yeah. I also asked for a separate vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u109	Separate vote on § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u110	Alinea 1 and para. 7, if we can vote them separately.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u111	There's something there. 3, where the creation of para. 8. So I have to put them all to a separate vote. Okay. Are there any lines? I won't. Statements? Mr. Tsvetkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u112	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to thank you for the support of the entire Committee on Environment and Water, which supported our proposals. We received many signals from citizens who were concerned by the deadline. I think an extension for two years is absolutely normal, in line with anti-epidemic measures, and we must support this proposal. Once again, I would like to thank and appeal for the support of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u113	Thank you. Mr. Kostadinov, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u114	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm making a cue to my previous colleague because it seems to me that I may have been misunderstanded. We will support by para. 7 citizens will still be exempt from the obligation to register for two years, but under para. 1, as far as business is concerned, I propose that this period be one year. That's my line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u115	In order for there to be no confusion, I will tell you that § 1 consists of three points In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 is para. 7 a t. 3 is for the creation of para. 8. Since it's gotten a little complicated, I'm going to ask everyone to focus on the vote. Are there any other statements? I'm closing the debate. I will put to the vote the amendment proposed by the Commission for the name of the Law. Mrs. Vassileva?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u116	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u117	Mr. Shishkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u118	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u119	Mrs. Alexandrova? She's gone. Mr. Kasabov? He's gone. Mr. Rashidov? He's gone. Mr. Kolev? He's gone. Mrs. Dimitrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u120	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u121	Mr. Apostolov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u122	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u123	Mr. Popov? Mr. Shishkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u124	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u125	Mr. Nunev? Yeah. 98 voted in the Chamber and 5 online " 103" MPs in total: for in Hall 98 and 5 online............................................................................................................... The motion is accepted. Moving on to the vote on § 1. We will vote first on the proposed amendment by Mr. Kostadinov. I'll remind you that he's proposing in point. 1 of § 1 to be "November 28, 2021." Mrs. Dimitrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u126	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u127	Mrs. Vassileva?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u128	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u129	Mr. Apostolov? He's gone. Mr. Shishkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u130	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u131	Mr. Nunev? He's not here. They voted 91 in Hall and 3 online "94" MPs: for 12 in Hall, against 12 in Hall and 3 online "15" abstentioned 67. The offer is not accepted. We're going to vote on the dots under § 1. I'm voting on it. 1 of § 1 supposed by the Commission. Mrs. Dimitrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u132	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u133	Mrs. Vassileva?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u134	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u135	Mr. Apostolov? He's gone. Mr. Shishkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u136	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u137	Mr. Nunev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u138	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u139	Mr. Rashidov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u140	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u141	Thank you. They voted 93 in the Chamber and 5 online "98 MPs: for 85 in the Chamber and 5 online "90" against 2, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. We vote on it. 2 as proposed by the Commission. Mr. Rashidov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u142	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u143	Mrs. Dimitrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u144	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u145	Mrs. Vassileva?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u146	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u147	Mr. Shishkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u148	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u149	Mr. Nunev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u150	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u151	Thank you. They voted 96 in the Chamber and 5 online "101" MPs: for 96 in the Chamber plus 5 online "101," there is no objection and no abstention. The motion is accepted. We vote on it. 3 of § 1 as amended by the Commission. Mr. Rashidov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u152	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u153	Mrs. Dimitrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u154	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u155	Mrs. Vassileva?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u156	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u157	Mr. Shishkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u158	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u159	Mr. Nunev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u160	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u161	Thank you. They voted 86 in the Chambers plus 5 online " 91 MPs: for 85 in the Chambers plus 5 online. 90 for, not against, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I am now voting on the Commission's proposal for the creation of the name "Concluding provision" with § 2 and § 2 with a text on the Commission Report. Mr. Rashidov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u162	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u163	Mrs. Dimitrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u164	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u165	Mrs. Vassileva?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u166	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u167	Mr. Shishkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u168	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u169	Mr. Nunev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u170	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u171	Thank you. Voted in the House 89 MPs: 86, none, abstention 3. With 5 MPs voted online, the total votes were 94: for 91, against no, abstention 3 The motion is accepted. Thank you, fellow Members, who voted online. Let's continue with: LEGISLATION OF THE LAW ON THE REPRESENTATIVES AND THE AGREEMENTS, No 054-01-56, PUT ON 25 June 2020 BY ICCRAL VASSILEV VESELIN AND GROUP OF PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVES I'm gonna take a look at this, okay? Mr. Mitev, you have the floor to present the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u172	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! On 25 June 2020, submitted by Iskren Vasilev and a group of MPs, No 054-01-56, adopted at the first vote on 22 July 2020. The Act for Supplement to the Debts and Contracts Act. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. Under § 1, there is a proposal of the National Representative Christian Mitev in accordance with Article 1. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 112: Art. 112. (1) With the expiration of a ten-year limitation, cash claims against natural persons shall be repaid, irrespective of its interruption, unless the obligation is deferred or deferred. (2) The limitation under para. 1 shall not apply to claims: 1. of the commercial activity of sole traders or natural persons suppliers in a company under art. 357; 2. for unauthorised damage; 3. for unjustified enrichment; 4. for maintenance; 5. for remuneration; 6. for benefits under the Labour Code. (3) For the limitation under para. Article 1 shall apply. 115 and 118. 'Concluding provision'. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that the name of the division be amended as follows: Proposal of the National Representative Hristian Mitev: The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Hristian Mitev under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 2: ..................................................... In the case of welded cases, the limitation under art. 112 shall begin on the day on which the claim has become due. In the case of pending enforcement proceedings, the limitation period shall begin to run from the day of its formation and, where not established, from the day of the entry into force of the claim. Under § 2 there is a proposal of the National Representative Christian Mitev in accordance with Article 2. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2, which shall become § 3: .................................................. The law shall enter into force within three months of its promulgation in the Official Journal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u173	Thank you. Statements? Mr. Mitev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u174	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First, allow me to thank all my colleagues from the Legal Commission for their constructive attitude and behaviour on this bill. I believe that with it we will actually put an end to a problem that has been harassing Bulgarian society for tens of years and affecting hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens, namely the termination of the figure of the so-called eternal debtor, even more for many years we have constantly criticised by the European Parliament. Last Monday, a meeting of the Commission on Complaints and Petitions was held, which again raised the question that in Bulgaria there is in no way any protection of debtors in insolvency. And, unfortunately, we remain the only Member State of the European Union where there is no such regulation so far. I believe that with the Bill that we have developed and adopted together with our colleagues from GERB, we have received support even from the opposition in the face of BSP, this problem will be solved. Allow me only to make a proposal for an amendment in § 1, in the newly created art. 112, para. 2, to create new t. 7 and so on. 8............................................................................................................. 8 On the occasion of property restitution in accordance with the order of the act. We propose that, in these cases, in these claims, the limitation period should not run in such a way that society and the State are not harmed when there are claims of this kind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u175	Thank you. Are there any lines? I can't see. Mr. Veselinov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u176	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Let me, on behalf of the importers, thank all MPs from all parliamentary groups who supported this amendment to the Law. Indeed, there are rare times in a single term when the National Assembly solves the problem that is vital to hundreds of thousands of people, a problem that arises due not only to thoughtless decisions in taking credit, but also by virtue of insurmountable circumstances, and which causes hundreds of thousands of Bulgarians to work without employment contracts or to emigrate from the country, because there is no ray of hope that this long slavery that they have come into will end. I want to respond to multiple publications that are trying to attack this text as text in favour of debtors. In the context of the debate, which has been quite lengthy, almost five months since the initial proposal was tabled, we have heard all the opinions, including those that have been quite radically opposed to the proposed changes. More than that. I believe that the Legal Commission and the working groups before it have complied with the main part of these objections. The question is that there must be a balance between the interests of the debtor and the interests of the creditor. This is not a law that will allow the debtor to never repay the loans on the contrary, it ensures that the creditor is able, by all means, to recover the claim, but sets a reasonable period of time within which this execution is to run. This reasonable period is 10 years, and from these 10 years we explicitly exclude time for lawsuits because we know that our judicial system sometimes has paradoxically long cases. That is, we, as a legislator, believe that we are taking a good and balanced decision that protects the interests of the creditor, but also gives hope to debtors. I, too, will allow myself to make an editorial proposal, as the Commission, led by pure motives with good intentions for the wording of § 2, in my opinion, allows a loophole for abuse by creditors. It is about the part in pending enforcement proceedings and the limitation period starts from the day of its formation. This would allow the creditor, in the context of the transitional period of the Law, to suspend the enforcement proceedings, to start a new and, in fact, to extend the limitation period by 10 years. My proposal is that I know the intention of my colleagues from the Commission, just more precisely to write this idea and to obtain § 2 the following kind: 112 shall begin on the day on which the claim has become due. In the case of pending enforcement proceedings, the limitation period shall begin to run from the first enforcement action and, where not initiated, from the day of entry into force of the claim. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u177	Thank you. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I put the name of the Import Act to the vote. Vote 88 MPs: 87, no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote Mr. Mitev's proposal for an addition to art. 112, para. 2 to create points 7 and 8, by Mr. Mitev. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 1 with the additions adopted. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote for a change of the division. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. The Commission proposes to create a new § 2 with a text on the Report, but Mr. Veselinov proposed an editorial amendment in § 2. That is why I am voting on the editorial amendment for § 2, proposed by Mr. Veselinov. Vote 88 MPs: 87, no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote § 2 by importer, by the version of the Commission § 2 to become § 3. Vote 97 MPs: 9 against no, 88 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. Now I will put to the vote the text of the importer for § 2, which becomes § 3. Vote 98 MPs: 90, none, abstention 8. The offer is accepted. That concludes the Law. [[Applause from OP.]] Let's continue with: THE SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE CALLED PROCEEDING CODEX. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Report of the Committee on Legal Affairs. You have the floor to present the report, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Council of Ministers submitted a report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, No 002-01-52, adopted by the Council of Ministers on 16 October 2020, adopted on the first vote on 29 October 2020. The application for amendment and supplement of the Criminal Code. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 2, para. Council Regulation (EU) 2017/1939 of 12 October 2017 establishing enhanced cooperation for the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office (OJ L 283, 31 October 2017) , hereinafter referred to as the Regulation (EU) 2017/1939
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u179	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law and the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 1. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u180	§ 2 has an importer's proposal. Proposal of MP Krum Zarkov and group of MPs. The following amendments shall be made in § 2: "1." In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 in the created para. 6 after the word "procurators" a point shall be placed and the text by the end of the sentence shall be removed. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4 words when they perform functions under Regulation (EU) 2017/1939 The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 46 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 3: . (3) The functions of the prosecutor provided for in this Code shall also be carried out by the European Prosecutor and the European Delegated Prosecutors in accordance with their competence under Regulation (EU) 2017/1939. 2. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 4. 3. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 5 and in it the words are said. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): 4. The creation of para. 6: The provisions of para. 4 and 5 shall not apply to the orders and procedural actions of the European Prosecutor and European Delegated Prosecutors when they perform functions under Regulation (EU) 2017/1939. 5. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 7 and finally added to it, with the exception of the activities of the European Prosecutor and European Delegated Prosecutors when they perform functions under Regulation (EU) 2017/1939.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u181	Thank you. Statements? Mr. Zarkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u182	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) supported and continues to support the introduction of the figure of European Delegated Prosecutor in Bulgarian legislation so that this new European office can actively start its work in Europe and in Bulgaria. I wish this would be done clearly and competently enough, and in this sense we have proposed several improvements to the Bill that we had promised you at first reading. The first of them is what we are looking at now, and it has to do with exactly what the European Delegated Prosecutor will do in Bulgaria. The regulation, which Mrs. Atanasova mentioned several times, provides for the possibility for European delegated prosecutors to work in the exercise of the functions of the regulation, i.e. the competence specific to that regulation, but also in other competences in the countries concerned. We consider, given the specifics of the Bulgarian system, given the way it operates, that the idea of introducing a special figure to deal only with the abuse of EU funds and to be separated from the normal hierarchy, which is imposed in the Code of Criminal Procedure, is key. That is why we propose with our law and the regulation allows it, to say that this prosecutor will only deal with crimes and investigations of crimes related to the Regulation, i.e. the absorption of EU funds. There are two arguments for this. The first argument, ladies and gentlemen, is that there is a lot of work on this issue in Bulgaria, many signals, many doubts about violations that need to be investigated, and will fill the working hours of these two, three I hope billions will come to Bulgaria, but the fact that billions will come is only the first condition. The second is to spend them so that they really benefit people and the economy, rather than go to several companies or a few close pockets. Therefore, these prosecutors will have a lot of work to do. Second, a special attitude has been taken in the Regulation. The steps have been taken in this direction with the proposed bill to be independent, including the prosecutor's hierarchy, that is to say that it should not be subject to the normal functioning of the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office. Agree that this principle will be quite seriously violated when we are working on cases of the jurisdiction of the European Prosecutor's Office and it is completely independent, but at the same time it can also be awarded cases in which it will be a hierarchically subordinate to the respective hierarchy of directors. You can't be on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays independent, and Tuesdays and Thursdays in another situation. You understand that you don't have to be a lawyer to realize that it doesn't make any sense. In the Legal Committee there was a debate on this issue, there were also questions raised by colleagues about how such exclusive competence would be combined with these difficult cases, where sometimes the investigation of one crime leads to another and so on. However, these are not new questions for our legal system and practice has found solutions every time we have created specialized units and structures. I do not think that they can prevent this European Delegated Prosecutor from being recorded with the current changes, that he will deal exclusively with the functions replaced by Regulation (EU) 2017/1939. This, I think, will be an additional guarantee, among other things, for the good and sincere will of the majority to solve the problem of law enforcement in the area of abuse of EU funds. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u183	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Are there any lines? Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm calling off the debate. I put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal of MP Krum Zarkov and a group of MPs. They voted 103 MPs: 33, Against 47, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 2. They voted 106 MPs: 88, none, abstention 18. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u184	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u185	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the texts of the importer for paragraphs 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10. Vote 104 MPs: for 103, there is no abstention 1. All proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u186	The Commission supports the text of the importer for the name of the division. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11: ..................................................... This Law and Article 253, para. 3, p. 5 of the Criminal Code introduces the requirements of Directive (EU) 2018/1673 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2018 on combating criminal money laundering (OB, L 284/22 of 12 November 2018). .?.......................................................................................................... The Commission supports the text of the importer for the name of the division. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u187	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u188	Separately, let's vote #12!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u189	Okay, I get it. I get it. I get it. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for the name of the division: the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 11: the text of the importer for the name of the division. They voted 102 MPs: 100, none, abstention 2. The proposed texts have been adopted. I am now putting the text of the importer to the vote for § 12. Vote 92 MPs: 91 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 13. They voted 102 MPs: 75 against 1, abstention 26. The motion is accepted. Please continue, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u190	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Under Paragraph 14, there is a proposal of the MP Krasimir Yankov and a group of MPs: In § 14 a new item is created. 1: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The second sentence is created: "In accordance with the terms and conditions of this section of the General Assembly of Prosecutors, candidates for appointment as European Delegated Prosecutors' are also elected. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of MP Krum Zarkov and group of MPs: The following amendments and additions shall be made in § 14: 1. point 1 is amended as follows: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 30, para. 2 is created t. 6a: 6a. carry out the selection of candidates for European Delegated Prosecutors and, through the Minister of Justice, inform the European Chief Prosecutor of the broadcast candidates; 2. A t is created. 1a: 1a. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 33, para. 3 words................................................................................. 2 and 6' are replaced by. 2, 6 and 6a 3. point 2 is amended as follows: "2." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 136 is created. 7 and 8: The European Prosecutors and the European Delegated Prosecutors shall participate in the proceedings in the cases of jurisdiction of the European Prosecutor's Office. The provisions of para. 3 " 5" shall not apply to their activities. (8) European Delegated Prosecutors shall only perform the functions of Regulation (EU) 2017/1939. They have the powers of prosecutors under this law, according to their competence. 4. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4 in the created para. 8 after the word "procurators" a point shall be placed and the text by the end of the sentence shall be removed. 5. A t is created. 4a: 4a. In Chapter 9, the name of Section I is amended as follows: Selection of candidates for European Delegated Prosecutors 6. A t is created. 4b: 4b. Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 174a and 174b: Art. 174a. (1) Candidates for European Delegated Prosecutors may be judges, investigators or prosecutors who have at least 8 years of experience. (2) The candidates under para. 1 submit an application accompanied by an up-to-date copy of a template approved by the relevant College of the Supreme Judicial Council. (3) All documents submitted under para. 2 shall be published on the website of the Supreme Judicial Council no later than 14 days before the public hearing. Art. 174b. (1) The Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council shall open a procedure for the selection of candidates for European Delegated Prosecutors and shall declare a deadline for the submission of applications under 174a, para. 2. (2) The Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council shall declare the date, time and place of hearing for candidates meeting the requirements of 174a, para. 1. The hearing shall be conducted in alphabetical order. It is public and is broadcast in real time through the website of the Supreme Judicial Council. (3) Non-profit legal entities designated for carrying out public service activities, professional organisations of judges, prosecutors and investigators, higher schools and scientific organisations may submit opinions to the plenary of the Supreme Judicial Council on candidates, including questions to be put to them. The opinions and questions submitted shall be published on the website of the Supreme Judicial Council, subject to the requirements for the protection of personal data. (4) The Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council shall select candidates for European Delegated Prosecutors and shall adopt the decisions for the selection of candidates by a majority of no less than seventeen votes from its members by a clear vote and shall send them to the Minister of Justice. (5) Where applicants receiving seventeen or more of the votes of the plenary of the Supreme Judicial Council are less than the number of European Delegated Prosecutors for which the procedure has been opened, a new selection procedure shall be carried out until the remaining seats are completed. (6) If the College of the European Public Prosecutor's Office rejects a candidate for a European Delegated Prosecutor elected by a decision of the plenary of the Supreme Judicial Council, a new procedure shall be held. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, i.e. 2 concerning Art. Paragraph 136. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the purchase, hire, maintenance, maintenance and repair of buildings, buildings and buildings. , hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) 2017/1939'.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u191	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Mr. Zarkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u192	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Our proposal consists of two parts. The first of them is the one we talked about just now, only in the Law on the Judiciary. You have one more chance, we all have one more chance to guarantee the independence of this prosecutor by making it work only on cases where the supervision of legality and methodical leadership by the above-mentioned attorney general does not apply. The other part of our proposal relates to the way in which Bulgarian delegated prosecutors will be selected. Selected because they will only be applications sent to Brussels to the European office of prosecutors, where their applications will be validated. We have bitter experience in our country with forensic scandals. We very much hope that the first euro delegated Bulgarian prosecutors will not also be the subject of a scandal. We must do everything possible to ensure that the procedure is such that when our candidates arrive at Mrs. Koveshi's office, she has absolutely no argument to return these candidates, because she has such a right under a regulation, and that will be another stain on our country, no less than the heavy resolutions and reports we receive. What can we do for this purpose? Firstly, selection is not sufficient to be carried out by the Prosecutor's College of the Supreme Judicial Council. We propose that this be done by the plenary of the Supreme Judicial Council, and by qualified majority. Yes, this can make the selection more difficult, but this will be an additional guarantee that not only one area of justice is represented, all the more so that both by law and by regulation this magistrate does not need to be a prosecutor. He will become one with his choice, but before that he may be a judge, an investigator. At first reading, I drew your attention to the fact that our representative in the College of the European Prosecutor's Office is a judge. In the end, it does not matter, the point is that all presented guilds in the Supreme Judicial Council, which are there under the law and the Constitution, must be relevant to this matter. Moreover, the procedure must be open to a sufficient number of candidates. Currently, the text proposed by the importers by the Ministry of Justice does not answer the question: where do the applications originally come from, which the prosecutors' college will discuss? We propose to introduce a clear requirement in the Law, namely, an eight-year professional service. Those who meet this requirement and enjoy the appropriate good name and competences in this area can, of course, talk about magistrates, be able to declare their wish to the plenary of the Supreme Judicial Council and its candidacy to be discussed. This must become transparent and public. We propose to provide for deadlines for these applications to be announced in order for someone to react to any of the stakeholders, civil society and so on, to ask their questions, to get acquainted with the biography and the vision of the candidate concerned. We offer this publicity, transparency and competition precisely as guarantees that another scandal will not happen that will inflame public opinion and disrupt our country's image. You understand yourself, and you know that here practically all people elected by the National Assembly are subject to this type of procedure. We hold hearings, upload the rules and applications within certain deadlines on the website of the National Assembly. It's a normal procedure. We cannot have such an important figure, which is introduced for the first time in our legislation and to which there are such great expectations, mentioned here with only one half-spoken sentence: the Prosecutor's College carries out the selection of applicants. We offer and have signed these rules that are nothing different from normal standards in such cases. And, yes, in itself, this will not guarantee success, but it will make it much more possible. I'm afraid that if you continue to persist in all of this becoming somewhat silent...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u193	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Finish your thought.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u194	...closed between a few people in the DA's office, we are confidently walking towards another judicial chamber drama.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u195	- What's the line? Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Krasimir Yankov and a group of MPs. They voted 93 MPs: 8 against 56, abstention 29. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal of MP Krum Zarkov and a group of MPs. Ninety-nine MPs voted: 29, against 58, abstentioned 12. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 14 by the supplement proposed in the text by the Commission. They voted 92 MPs: 72, none, abstention 20. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u196	Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR PERSONAL AID. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 10 November 2020, adopted on the first vote on 13 November 2020. Mrs. Lecheva, Mr. Milev, please put on your masks! The voters from your constituencies are watching you right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u197	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, before the beginning of the second reading, I am making a procedural proposal in the Chamber to allow the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Andriana Stoimenova, and the expert from the Labour and Social Policy Committee, Mrs. Lyubomira Arshinkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u198	Voting regime for admission in the Chamber of Representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. They voted 83 MPs: 81, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Stoimenova and Mrs. Arshinkova to take their representative seats in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u199	The Council of Ministers submitted a report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Personal Aid Act No 002-01-66, adopted by the Council of Ministers on 10 November 2020, adopted on the first vote on 13 November 2020. The Law on Personal Aid is amended and supplemented by the Law on Personal Aid. The Commission supports the text of the importer for the name of the Law. By § 1 there is a proposal from the MPs Anton Kutev, Milko Nedyalkov, Vessela Lecheva, Violeta Zhelev, Georgi Gokov, Nadia Klisurska, Polina Shishkova and Kristina Sidorova: "Paragraph 1 to fall." The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1 the words "from people with disabilities" are replaced by "in the Republic of Bulgaria."
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u200	Statements on the name of the bill, as well as on the proposed proposal submitted by the MPs Anton Kutev and a group of MPs and the Commission. Mr. Nedyalkov, do you wish to speak? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u201	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Deputy Minister! Although reading was suspended until § 1, I will make a statement to save you both the time and the subsequent three paragraphs.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u202	Within five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u203	Of course, to save time, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u204	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u205	It is worrying to drop the general part of the Law from the General provisions of the concept of the disabled people. The removal of this concept from the general provisions of this law may have been deliberately sought by the importer, but it raises many other questions. In paragraphs 2, 3 and 4, this concept shall be replaced by the concept of personal assistance users and not the disabled person. While the term "Users" itself is defined only in Chapter 3 of the Law, of course, with specific amendments. The removal of the disabled people, especially from art. 1, which is done with § 1, leads to some very interesting things. In § 1, the notion that personal assistance operates in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria is inserted, but right from art. 1 is excluded the circle of people Bulgarians who have the opportunity to fall within the scope of this law and in Articles 2, 3 and 4, they have been replaced by users. There's another paradox, once in art. 1 is inserted in the concept of the Bulgarian State, where the mechanism, conditions and arrangements for providing assistance are applied, further the amendments are made so that personal assistance can also be provided to a person who needs personal assistance when he is also located outside the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. This is in the Law, and you cannot deny it, but more importantly, it is the replacement of the circle of people who can benefit from the Law and their limitation only to users that makes this law half-law. It does not have what is called, if you want me to put it in the modern word........................................................................................ It is limited only to those who are still users of the Law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u206	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. You could have said target group, not target. [[Reply by MP Milko Nedyalkov.]] Foreigner, foreigner! I regret that you are the one I should make a remark to, but stick to the Bulgarian language. Is there anyone who wants a line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. We shall end the debate on the title and § 1. Voting regime first for the name of the Bill. Unfortunately, a re-vote must be carried out, as there is no necessary quorum. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u207	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm doing a re-voting procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u208	It's a rethink mode. Vote 87 MPs: 82, against 2, abstention 3. The name of the bill is accepted. I put to the vote the unacceptable proposal of the MP Anton Kutev and a group of MPs. They voted 99 MPs: 22, against 70, abstention 7. The motion is not accepted, it is rejected. I am now voting on the wording of § 1 as amended by the Commission. They voted 99 MPs: 82 against 14, abstention 3. Paragraph 1 has been adopted by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u209	According to § 2 there is a proposal from the National Representative Anton Kutev and a group of Members of the National Assembly is dismissed. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 2 the words "the disabled person" shall be replaced by "the users of personal According to § 3 there is a proposal from the National Representative Anton Kutev and a group of Members of the National Assembly is dismissed. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. Article 3 is amended as follows: Art. 3. Personal assistance is a mechanism for support for full participation in society, for carrying out activities meeting individual needs of a personal, domestic or social nature, and for overcoming the barriers to functional constraints. Under § 4, there is a proposal from the National Representative Anton Kutev and a group of Members of the National The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4 the words of the disabled are replaced by the users of personal assistance. According to § 5, there is a proposal from the National Representative Anton Kutev and a group of Members of the National Assembly The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u210	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Statements on the second to fifth paragraphs proposed for consideration, including? Mr. Kutev, come in. There's also a desire for a lady. Mr. Kutev, I'm sorry. Mrs. Lecheva, come in, and I apologize again. And now, in this situation, someone to accuse me of sexism.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u211	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would just like to make a few clarifications regarding the changes we have proposed, or rather our attitude towards this bill, namely to drop many of the texts that completely change the philosophy of this law. They also change basic principles based on which this law was created. I dare say that this bill is not going well, and as it goes, we will return to that point of origin, from which the tensions and protests have started precisely to the nationally represented organisations representing the people with disabilities. Thus, the proposed changes actually bring us back to the situation that all people with disabilities struggled from, namely, to have opportunities to benefit from the personal assistance mechanism through the new mechanism for assessing individual needs. I dare once again say that the proposed changes completely replace the spirit, philosophy and principles on which this law was laid. That is why with our proposals we propose to drop these texts, which change the philosophy of this law, namely the most important thing my colleague mentioned, is the notion that the disabled people should fall and be replaced only by the concept of the users. It is precisely the limitation of the scope of this law to be limited only to users within that scope and scope which concerns those with permanent disabilities to whom foreign aid is also granted. I dare say that much of the people who have less than 50% damage remain outside the scope of this law and will not be able to benefit from the personal assistance mechanism because they will fall outside it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u212	Thank you, Mrs. Lecheva. Are there lines? I don't see anyone who wants to. Mr. Kutev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u213	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! The problem in these first few articles and simply dropping out of words is not terminological. It is extremely important and I will try to remind you where this all began. In fact, all this history with the Law on Persons with Disabilities, about personal assistance, the Law on Social Services has been initiated by you, by a previous parliament in which you had a majority and in which, under the pressure of a UN Convention in which the words "Disabled People" participate in the very title of the Convention, you adopted a Plan for the Integration of Persons with Disabilities, a Strategy for Persons with Disabilities. Everywhere in these documents, the disabled people stand in the title and in the texts of the relevant documents. You have adopted the Plan, according to which, as early as 2016, you should have made a Social Services Act that is comprehensive and ensures the ratification of the convention in question within a certain period of time. That is, when we talk about the term "disabled people" it is deeply placed in the legislation and, by the way, this has been done with your personal assistance. Not only cooperation, you have made it this majority in a previous parliament. The issue began in 2017, when I and a few others of my colleagues began to raise the question to you sharply, which raised the organisations of people with disabilities, that you did not comply with your own schedules and plans, and that the law that should have been adopted in 2016 on your plan, you did not accept it in 2017. And then, under the pressure of the people who protest outside, and under the pressure of several deputies inside, this haste happened, with which the Law on Personal Aid actually became a fact. And if this law has any flaws, they are indeed the result of the haste. I agreed that personal assistance was part of the social services and should enter into the other law, only that you had missed all the deadlines. Now that under pressure both on the street and on the internal parliamentary opposition you have passed the Personal Aid Act, you are now beginning with futility. Further, you are deprecating a lot of other things, but the first thing you are doing here is the very concept of a disabled person, and it is in the genesis of this law. And that's why we're telling you that you're deprecating the Law, but the big problem is, as we'll see in the following points, that by deprecating the Law, you're depreciating human lives. You do not allow certain people to come to life because all that is enshrined in the UN Convention, as well as in your plan and strategy, it makes sense. At the moment you are ruining something that you have done one of the few things that you have done well during this term. You're very good at this: one thing to do and you're ruining it with a swing.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u214	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. I would like to draw attention to those who have spoken that, in the second vote, the discussion takes place chapter by chapter, section by section or text by text. The story of events is not told. Are there lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u215	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I think that by trying to get around the basics, the important things that we amend in this law and don't call them by the real names, there are texts that are legal absurd. Please read in the Commission Report the amendment of art. 3, or this is § 3. I respect it to you, and there I can replace in one place those to whom the Law is directed, with the words of the Members of the National Assembly, but I will not do it. Personal assistance is a support mechanism for a full participation in society. For carrying out activities meeting the individual needs of a personal, domestic or social nature, to whom? And to overcome the barriers to functional limitations. From this text, which has finally come out of the Commission's work, the definition of personal aid is meaningless. There isn't, as the chairman told me before, there isn't even where this law is directed.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u216	REPLICA: For the people of the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u217	For all people. Let's put it this way: to all citizens in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria as you have already done in voting in art. 1. That is why I say that this haste to pass this law gives birth to such legal prematures, as a former head of state would say. Read it again. And I ask you, Mr. Chairman, to give the specialists a break and time, Mrs. Arshinkova is here to give at least a reasonable offer for a new article. Three if that's how they decided to do it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u218	Is that a request for a recess?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u219	I can't do it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u220	You can't, yes, that's why I was going to ask the management. [[Reply by MP Milko Nedyalkov.]] I generally very much approve of your speeches, I am almost always on your side, but in this case I will not be able to take your side and interrupt. Are there lines? Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u221	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Nedyalkov, I would not have taken the floor, but since you were concerned with an issue relating to the interpretation of legal rules, the legal rules in each of the legal acts, as well as here, are not interpreted for themselves, separated from the other legal rules in the act, but are systematically interpreted. They have a special kind of interpretation. I don't see anyone here, unfortunately, from colleagues from the Legal Committee of your group, they can explain you. The so-called systematic interpretation means that this text must be interpreted as in relation to the previous, already adopted art. 1, as well as in relation to the overall context of the Law. In this regard, it is clear who it refers to and does not need to be explicitly indicated. This can be taken out in an interpretive way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u222	Second line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u223	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Nedyalkov, I will allow myself in the form of a reply to make a possible answer to your questions I do not know, rhetorical or specific questions were, to whom all the things described in the Law refer. The users are concerned. Chapter 3 of this Law describes who users may be. It is precisely with the word "users" that the term "disabled person" is replaced by the term "disabled person" by the fact that any person who has a medical document that gives him any advantage on the basis of disability, which may be 30, 40%, would have the right to be personally assisted. And right here in Chapter Three, we're describing who users can be. If you read the Law to the end, you will not ask that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u224	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Third line? I won't. Hole, Mr. Nedyalkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u225	Strange legislation, ladies and gentlemen! Strange legislation when the main part of the Law misses the circle of people to which it refers and is transferred to other norms and to general law rules where we need to know who this definition applies to. You can see that this definition is really devoid of meaning in this form. It is devoid of meaning because it does not affect anything but a description of wishes, without saying to whom these norms are addressed, this personal assistance, as defined. It was to avoid even the word "useful" in this third article itself. That's why it's done. If you're editorialally proposing now to the users, it would be a good option. I won't offer it because it's not here. He's gone, and I object to that.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u226	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. Are there any other statements? Go ahead, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u227	Dear Mr. Chairman, my procedure in the manner of conduct is with you in relation to my previous speech and your intervention. Since we will probably have another 30 minutes to speak under this law, and we will probably often enter some form of communication with you, I would like to ask you to strictly follow the Rules. There is no way to justify dropping the term "disabled people" without explaining where he started. It's historical legislation. So, first of all, I don't think you were right to make a comment at all. Secondly, if you have a remark on my speech, according to our rules, you should make a statement from the stand and give me a reply, not make it from the seat of the President of the National Assembly. The President of the National Assembly is one of us. He's been temporarily elected chairman. Just because you're chairman means two things. Firstly, that you must regulate the process of how the sitting is going and secondly that you should have, how to say, the moral qualities to put yourself above how the dialogue is going and whether you like a thesis or not, in order to properly conduct the meeting, in the right direction. [[Reply from MP Petar Petrov.]] And when someone there yells, like a guy with a mustache, I can't recognize him, stop him, because that's not right. I am returning to you: so that we do not go into conflict from here on in the next 40 minutes, I ask you not to comment on my speeches or, if you do so, do them in the form of a line from the stands as you should. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u228	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. As presiding and leading the meeting and in the absence of other leaders, if I make a reply, we must call off the sitting, because I have no one else to hold the meeting. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] On the other hand, as chairman, I am obliged to follow the Rules. And what I have actually done after your speech to remind you of the wording of art. 84, I will allow myself once again to recall it in my right to two minutes' respect for your speech: Art. 84 (1) The National Assembly shall discuss and vote on bills for the second vote chapter by chapter, section by section, text by text. From your speech, which was a little more than 3 minutes, 2 minutes you were telling the story of the introduction of bills, social issues, unrest and so on. It's a preamble, it's a preamble, but... I don't see what this has contributed to the essence of your speech to tell all these stories? Here you are, Mr. Stoinev, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u229	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Simeonov, in the manner of conduct. Mr. Simeonov, you as the host have no right to comment on the speeches of MPs. Understand it! If you want to comment, then go down, take the floor, come to the stand, comment, then we have the right to object. You, when you are the host, you simply give the floor or take it away, but you have no right to express your opinion, you have no right to comment, and you no longer have the right to give an assessment to the Members of the National Assembly of the way they speak. It's none of your business, it's not your job! You are to organise a real debate in this Chamber, to follow the rules, but not to comment and give your opinion. If you want to give your opinion, please sit with us and give your opinion. When you lead Parliament, please stick to the Rules and do not comment. Already in several debates you allow yourself to express opinions, to argue with MPs. You, as the leading sitting, is not your job! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u230	Mr. Stoinev, I am obliged to ensure the order of the meetings and as such I have the right to respect the Rules, not to comment, especially when it comes to people who, in my view, often violate it. Since you insist so much, from now on I will do what you advised me to do. That I have made a friendly recommendation so accept it, I do not think it would violate the business order and the work of the Assembly. On the contrary, I'm doing it right this way to keep the job going. Any other speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm calling off the debate. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the National Representative Anton Kutev under § 2 and a group of Members of Parliament, not supported by the Commission. Vote 94 MPs: 22, against 67, abstention 5. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 2 in the version of the Commission. Vote 95 MPs: 75 against 16, abstention 4. Paragraph 2 in the version of the Commission has been adopted. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Anton Kutev and a group of MPs for § 3 not supported by the Commission. Vote 95 MPs: 24, Against 62, abstention 9. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 3 in the version of the Commission. Vote 96 MPs: 76 against 17, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Anton Kutev and a group of MPs for § 4, not supported by the Commission. Vote 98 MPs: 26, against 67, abstention 5. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 4 in the version of the Commission. Vote 97 MPs: 75, against 20, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Anton Kutev and a group of MPs for § 5, not supported by the Commission. Vote 98 MPs: 25, against 71, abstention 2. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of § 5 by importer. Vote 96 MPs: 78 against 17, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Ademov, with § 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u231	According to § 6 there is a proposal from the National Representative Anton Kutev and a group of Members of the National The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6. According to § 7 there is a proposal from the National Representative Anton Kutev and a group of Members of the National Assembly is dismissed. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: s (1) the user of personal assistance shall be: 1. a person with permanent disability with an identified type and degree of disability or a degree of permanent disability with a certain foreign aid; 2. a child with 90 and over 90 per cent species and a degree of disability or a degree of permanently reduced performance without certain foreign assistance. 2. In para. 3: (a) point 3 is amended as follows: "3." participate in the management and control of the provision of personal assistance, including the type and duration of the assistance; (b) point 4 is repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u232	Statements on the read paragraphs? Mrs. Jeleva, come in. Are there any other people out there? There is.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u233	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Deputy Minister, I will take note of our proposal to dismiss...................................................................................................... This is the change you propose for art. 8, which changed significantly, as my colleagues previously said, the philosophy of the Law. She was in the elementary definition. The goal was for every person with disability to receive support that he needed, not in the way that you are cutting the Law. We cannot agree and allow the proposal you are making to provide personal assistance only to those with permanent disabilities with certain foreign assistance. This completely contradicts the idea that was enshrined in the creation of the Personal Aid Act, which we have been fighting for for for many years. The NGOs fought and the mothers of the System killed us, but so did you. This was said by the colleague before me because we all remember the initial adoption of the Law, which was adopted with applause on both your part and on your right, colleagues. We are now demanding that personal assistance be determined in relation to the individual need and such support be given to him, which he needs and not to be linked to the percentage determined by TelK. By limiting the scope of the Personal Aid Act permanently and solely for people with permanent disabilities with the right to foreign assistance, we are once again going back to the original principle, or the one you prefer for an approach to distribute some money to a person, to a mudbag, without really determining his need for support, and his individual assessment of this person is depreciated by this proposal. In addition, there remain many people who need support, namely to participate effectively in the public process and life, to develop, to study, to work and to be full citizens. With the change, one part of the people will fall out of the scope of the mechanism and create the risk that they will be left without the necessary support, because we all know how the rate of incapacity from medical expertise is determined. She's been slowing down a lot. There are periods about five or six months, and in this period the person does not have a certain percentage of incapacity and disability by TELLK. In this period, such a person will not be able to benefit from assistant support. Here the reasons of the government are that we are transferring to a law that has also been mutilated and will be likely to be the Social Services Act where they can receive additional assistant support. I would like to point out that in this law in art. There are only five activities there that can support the disabled person. These activities, however, are mostly in a home environment. When a person needs to go to work, to an institution, he will not be able to receive such support as we want. Because you are making it possible for personal help to receive only those with permanent disabilities, and not in the real sense of the word, because in the following paragraphs we will also see that those hours that are needed to support the most severely ill are significantly cut. I will go back to this paragraph that we are looking at now and in the motives to it by the Ministry. They say that such an approach for Bulgaria, as we had decided, and we want, and we continue to insist that it be the scope in the full sense, as it was at the beginning of the adoption of the Law... [[People's representatives are talking to each other.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u234	Guys, stop talking! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u235	Let's get back to it, folks.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u236	So far, you've been talking, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u237	The motives say that human resources are lacking and there are no budgetary opportunities to fully implement the Law. That's what's most important is the lack of human resources. What we see today in the health care system is in collapse mainly because there is no human resource. You cannot say that these budget funds, which will be needed to implement in whole with the Law, will not support these people because they need them. Giving now public resources and a little more money to enable these disabled people to develop, what we give for them will eventually come back, and they are involved in economic and social life. Personal assistance is an investment in the right of a disabled person to be like everyone else, like all of you. I'd like to say a word to you. It was used by the social minister days ago. That's the word empathy. This means empathy, an opportunity to empathize with people's feelings, thoughts, and emotions.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u238	Get it over with, Mrs. Jeleva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u239	Please, I appeal to you, to my colleagues from GERB, to the ministers who are responsible for this. Please enter the emotions, the thoughts of people with disabilities when creating such regulations. Thank you. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u240	Thank you. Are there lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u241	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm taking the floor on these two paragraphs because they said a lot of untruths both now and by the non-negotiables. There is an incorrect presentation of the facts of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Personal Aid. Specifically for § 7, which we are currently looking at. In § 7, importers clearly and specifically determine who are entitled persons for access to the mechanism of personal assistance. It is these that are: the people with permanent disabilities, with an established degree of disability and a degree of permanently reduced performance, a certain foreign assistance, a child of 90 and over 90 per cent and a degree of disability or a degree of permanent disability, without a certain foreign assistance. Not only will those persons who received the assistance mechanism in 2020, which are 33 196 people, be able to receive personal assistance in 2021 in the same order as in the future. With these changes, we allow and extend the scissors to persons who are more than 70% reduced performance, type and degree of disability with foreign help to be able to receive personal help next year. Absolutely not correct the facts that have been presented by the non-negotiables. Is such an approach justified, namely to receive personal assistance from persons with disabilities who do not have any foreign assistance or from persons who do not have permanent disabilities? Any person in need of the assistance mechanism shall submit an application to the Social Assistance Directorate at the current address. It completes a survey and evaluates itself whether it wants to receive the assistance mechanism. For this year alone, out of 650 thousand people with permanent disabilities, only 40 thousand people with permanent disabilities have indicated that they want to benefit from the assistance mechanism, provided that there is an opportunity to receive others. This means that not all persons with permanent disabilities want to benefit from the assistance mechanism. There's no refusal that's not legitimate. For the entire year 2020, I have not heard of a person with permanent disability who wants to use personal assistance under the Personal Aid Act not having received such personal assistance under the Personal Aid Act. So this is incorrect information. Don't speculate, don't draw apocalyptic paintings, don't scare people! That doesn't make you more convincing!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u242	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Are there lines? Mrs. Lecheva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u243	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My line to Mrs. Angelova is related to the apocalyptic paintings we create. Ms. Angelova, in your motives you created the feeling and apocalyptic picture that you see, 670 thousand people who are disabled will want to take advantage of this mechanism, and see that it will cost billions of dollars of the budget - billions to be taken by Bulgarian taxpayers. So apocalyptic paintings you create them in your motives and based on them you make these changes today in the Personal Aid Act. Yours are the facts that you have presented that only 30,000 have so far taken advantage of and that 40 thousand have applied so far and have been approved to take advantage of this mechanism. First read the reasons by which you submit this bill, and then reproach our proposals for dropping these texts! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u244	Thank you, Mrs. Lecheva. Mr. Ademov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u245	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Angelova, what is the principle difference between the current Personal Aid Act and what is proposed? This principle difference is recorded exactly in this paragraph. What's this about? You said nearly 40,000 have applied and so on. That's true. What is done with this law is that there is an increase in the circle of the rightful persons of the mechanism with the group that has TELK solutions between 70 and 90% with foreign assistance. That's the only difference. The circle of these individuals taken out of the register is 80 thousand, i.e. 80 thousand can benefit from the assistance mechanism, and whether they will do so is now a completely different topic, and whether they will find assistants is a third topic. But what's the big problem now? The big problem is that those who are not permanently disabled who do not have TELM solutions that have TELM solutions that are below 50% of the type and degree of disability or loss of performance, what do we do with them? The answer is that these people go to the other Social Services Act so that they can benefit from assistant support. Yeah, but what if they want to benefit from personal help? What's the problem? The problem is that these multifunctional teams, which are to "Social assistance" by doing the needs assessment, you have no information on how many hours will be provided, regardless of the fact that there is a Methodology, despite the fact that there are criteria for determining these hours. Since you don't have that information and it's not gonna work out, what are you doing? You determine the financial resources.. 214 million 600 thousand and 85 million in the other Law and according to the money and according to the financial resources, we determine access to personal assistance. That's the big problem. That is why our parliamentary group does not support it. If the Law had remained as recorded in the Convention on Persons with Disabilities, that all people with disabilities should have the right to overcome the functional deficit,...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u246	Get it over with.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u247	I'm done. ...to adapt to this. That's another topic. Now, under the motto, we increase the number of beneficiaries, in fact we isolate a large part.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u248	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Mrs. Jeleva, can you get a third line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u249	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Angelova, when you talk about my speech in your speech, it would be more appropriate for you to do it as a line. Replicate me and then talk like that. Because what do you mean, me or the coworkers are incorrect? We said what was written in the motives. And if we have to say that someone is incorrect, then turn to the people who have drafted the motives. Because it is said that the scope, if it is to be implemented in full the mechanism for personal assistance, does not have enough budget resources and does not have human resources. First of all, about the budget funds, which Mr. Ademov said. Yeah, I said that, and in my statement, there's money that's being handed out to a dick. That's all we got. That's all we're gonna give you. The other thing you speculate about, and the motives are that if it has to be done in full, it is necessary for 670 thousand disabled people to receive personal help, but that is not the case. This can also be regulated by the Methodology with the individual assessment carried out by the social worker. However, if there is no control over this social worker, the individual assessment will then be incorrect. So anything you say can be transferred to the people who have drawn up the Law. And the second, which is important for what I also said, that the scope is being reduced because people who have a 40% definition of TelK will need to go to work, as mentioned, and I said it, what is incorrect about it, in an hour of personal help to reach an institution or to a job, he will not be able to get it. So, if you please, don't speak like this, because you yourself said, condemning colleagues, saying that they do not speak correctly, will be given to the Ethics Commission. I hope it's not you. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u250	Thank you, Mrs. Jeleva. Mrs. Angelova, can you use your coat? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u251	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Taking an approach in which to provide unmitigated assistant support to all persons with permanent disabilities, regardless of the extent of the damage, including those with 30 and 40% reduced performance and type and degree of disability, I believe that it is incorrect and irrational, and practically irrelevant, because those persons with permanent disabilities who are of over 90%, lonely elderly people with over 90% foreign aid, cannot compare them with a person with permanent disability of 30, 40 and 50%. So I would also like to stress that personal assistance is provided on the basis of individual needs assessment and directionalisation. The number of hours of personal assistance shall be determined in the direction and in accordance with the Methodology for the preparation of individual assessment according to the needs of disabled persons. If there is no clearly written limit on the number of hours and which to use this assistant support, this can lead to subjective evaluation and chaos in the system itself. There is nothing wrong with being defined in the Methodicals. There are hours there. Any person with a disability can make a self-assessment, but the social worker is the one who, through the Methodology for carrying out an individual assessment of needs, by supporting people with disabilities, determines the hours in the direction. So your talk about my speeches, Mrs. Zhekova, is absolutely unfounded.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u252	Jelly.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u253	Because when you don't have the arguments, when your arguments don't weigh, then you include emotions, personal insults to the MPs. [[(shouting, noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria: "Which insults?")(See Annex I, Section I.1, to Directive 2008/68/EC)]] I would like to tell you that it does not make you more convincing, on the contrary it shows your frustration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u254	Thank you. Mrs. Klisurska, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u255	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! What I am going to expose will be essentially and on the proposals that have been made. What we're offered in art. Article 8, amendment of Art. 8 8 is related to the creation of an absolute prerequisite for people with disabilities to be covered by this mechanism. With the change of the word, a person with permanent disability, we are forced to enter the hypothesis that only those who have medical expertise should be covered by the Personal Aid Act. I do not know when you are sincere, honourable ladies and gentlemen ruling, because the date was 9 October 2018. "Boyko Borisov, Maya Manolova, Bisser Petkov and the mothers of children with disabilities signed an Action Plan. In this Action Plan, a commitment was made to all Bulgarian citizens to be permanently settled the issues of people with disabilities. And today, when we discuss these proposals, we see at the heart of them that there is some money. At that time, the idea was that the scope of the private aid mechanism should be for all people who need such personal assistance. And then it was explicitly stated that not the people with permanent disabilities but the people with disabilities, as is the Convention that you have ratified 2012 will have this support. I'm going to return you to the ordinance, which is for medical expertise, Art. 62, and I'll read only art. 62. The Regulation on Medical Expertise: The type and extent of damage is determined on the basis of medical documentation giving an idea of the functional state of the diseased and the body as a whole. This is done through clinical-expert history, thorough clinical examination, laboratory, functional data studies, medical documentation of the patient. Nowhere in art. 62, and right now what we're doing under art. 8 is to refer only and only to the decision taken for this medical expertise, nowhere, absolutely nowhere is this so necessary and in the Convention regulated individual needs assessment. Just think about it: there are many cases where people with a type and degree of disability above 50%, according to the concept in the Law on Persons with Disabilities, who are absolutely self-sufficient and do not need personal help, but there are people who are in such need and who do not have a 50% degree of disability. And I'll give you an example: a man falls, breaks a femur, needs someone to take him to his work. He doesn't have anyone in his family to support him. For this man, we suggest the inability to benefit from assistant support. [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u256	Please remain silent in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u257	And I do not see, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling majority, why do you not accept that the Personal Aid Act... [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP.]] Dear Mr. Chairman, please extend my time!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u258	What extension, are we at second reading?!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u259	Please provide order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u260	Why don't you accept the fact that it is not TELK's decision that is fundamental in the mechanism for personal assistance and the individual assessment of needs? And I do not know, dear lady Angelova, when you are sincere, because when you spoke, you said that many untruths were told. The truths and contradictions are still in your motives for this bill...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u261	Don't engage in dialogue! Under the bill, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u262	...who says that almost people's range will be over 600,000. Well, it can't be more than 600,000, because the individual needs assessment will determine how many users will be. Right now with what you're doing, you're maiming the law by referring to medical expertise and individual needs assessment goes into the trash can. So I call on you all to pay attention to the proposals that are made under art. 8, review your position and accept our proposal to drop this proposal so that people with disabilities have the opportunity to have the opportunity to use it as appropriate, to use it as it will help them so that they can be equal to each Bulgarian citizen. Thank you. [[Applause and cheering "Bravo!" by the National Representative Dragomir Stoynev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u263	Thank you. Are there lines? I don't see anyone who wants to. Mr. Kutev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u264	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I thank my colleagues who said most of the things. I just want to... Unfortunately, we can't go without historical returns because, unfortunately, they matter to this law. It's not random, it's just a product of actions and history. Everything in this mechanism started with several key demands of disabled organisations, including those nationally represented. And the current Deputy Minister Mrs. Stoimenova was then part of these demands. And I think it would confirm that one of the key demands of disabled people back then was not even the money, they did not put as a key request for money for personal help or for anything else. Mr. Petrov, I'm not going to define what you're doing, but I could. Don't push me. So the question was that they didn't want money, they wanted a few basic things, but the key of them was not to define a TELK dropper, but to have an assessment of each person's individual needs so that with this individual needs assessment, they could decide what was needed. That was the most important thing for them. And the fact is that you, with this paragraph, are canceling exactly that with § 6. In fact, you remove or reduce the role of individual evaluation, in fact you are already basing everything, as Mr. Ademov said, on the old position of the TelK, on all the doubts that your majority had towards TelK. You've had huge doubts and accusations about how Telks work and which people have been given Tells or not. And now, with this article, you are returning the resolution of who needs personal assistance and how much personal assistance there is back to the TelK committees and not to the Committees for assessing individual needs, for which the colleague Klisurska said very clearly that they have quite serious grounds created in this way. And at least during a discussion of the Law we did not find a better way to assess the individual needs of these committees, and certainly the TELM is not a better way. That's why I'm telling you this is a treachery and a derogation of the current law, because the key thing that users of this law... And by the way, when the Personal Aid Act was adopted, which we are now changing, we had a public consensus on what should happen. There was! And people supported people with disabilities so that this law could be obtained. Now you just dismantled achieved... You are currently discrediting achievements in the social sphere! It will be very difficult for them to be caught up later. And I'm telling you again, it's gonna cost lives!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u265	Thank you. Are there lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. I terminate the deliberations referred to in paragraphs 6 and 7. Let's move on to the vote. First, I put to the vote the proposal under § 6 of the National Representative Anton Kutev and a group of Members of Parliament, the non-discrimination of the Commission. Vote 96 MPs: 27, against 58, abstention 11. The offer is not accepted. Now I'm voting § 6 by importer. Vote 95 MPs: 70, against 23, abstention 2. The proposal for § 6 by importer is accepted. I put to the vote the proposal by the Commission of the Parliamentary Representative Anton Kutev and a group of MPs. Vote 97 MPs: 26, Against 62, abstention 9. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the wording of Paragraph 7 in the version of the Commission. Vote 92 MPs: 71, against 20, abstention 1. The proposal for the wording of Paragraph 7 as amended by the Commission has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u266	Negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u267	By which paragraph do you want to take a negative vote under § 6 or § 7?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u268	§ 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u269	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u270	Dear Mr. President, I voted against it because of the ambiguity of the new text which changed the old article. 8 " Who Is Using Personal Aid. In order to limit the circle of people, and as part of the speeches that were before, we understand that this must be a person over 70% with foreign help. However, when we read here, it turns out that he is a person with permanent disability with identified species and degree of disability. That's one option. According to the Law on Persons with Disabilities, it is a person with permanent disability who is 50 and over 50%. The other option is: a degree of permanently reduced capacity with a certain foreign assistance. This is the second species. The foreign assistance, ladies and gentlemen, is only in the second kind, at the second opportunity of the Law, when there is a permanently reduced capacity with an escort, so to call it, with foreign help. This ambiguity, which we are betting here in the Law, cannot be what is said: over 70%, as stated by the rulers. There's no such thing! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u271	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. Mr. Ademov, please come in for the next paragraphs.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u272	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 8 and shall propose the following version of § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced 1. In para. 1 the words "damages' that receive monthly benefits shall be replaced by "damaged' for which monthly assistance is received. 2. In para. 2 words in the community, excluding social services in the community of resident type and in specialized institutions, shall be replaced by the exception of social or integrated health-social services for resident care. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10 all over the words "foreigner with disabilities" shall be replaced by "foreigner with permanent disability" and shall be added and shall comply with the requirements of art. 8 and 9 According to § 10 of the importer there is a proposal from the MPs Anton Kutev and a group of MPs: In § 10, a point shall be placed after the word "Personal" and the text shall be deleted until the end of the sentence. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 11 after the words..........................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u273	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Statements under paragraphs 8, 9 and 10 are there any willing? I can't see. I'm calling off the debate. I shall put to the vote § 8 by the version of the Commission and § 9 by the version of the Commission..................................................................................................... both Vote 95 MPs: 75 against 15, abstention 5. Paragraphs 8 and 9 in the version of the Commission have been adopted. By § 10, I first put to the vote the proposal of Anton Kutev and a group of MPs, not by the Commission. They voted 99 MPs: 26, against 67, abstentioned 6. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting § 10 with the text edited by the Commission. Vote 97 MPs: 75, against 20, abstention 2. The text of § 10 in the version of the Commission has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u274	According to § 11, there is a proposal from the MPs Anton Kutev and a group of The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 12 2 is amended (2) The number of hours of personal assistance shall be determined in the direction of art. 25, para. 2 of the Law on Persons with Disabilities, according to the Methodology for carrying out an individual assessment of the needs of support for people with disabilities, based on four levels of dependence on intensive support: 1. the first degree of dependence of up to 15 hours per month of right to personal assistance; 2. second degree of dependence "up to 42 hours per month's right to personal assistance; 3. third degree of dependence sup to 84 hours per month of right to personal assistance; 4. 4th degree of dependence up to 168 hours per month of right to personal assistance.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u275	Thank you. Debates under § 11. Are there any speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u276	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! As we announced at the debates for first reading, we support the Bill and, in view of the progress of time, I will try to be as concrete and brief as possible. We fully support the definition of a specific circle of rights, and this, after the changes that we will support and are offered in the Law, will be those who actually have real needs. Naturally, this can be done by clarifying the levels of dependence and, respectively, determining the required number of hours of personal assistance. At first reading I had mentioned the analysis of the Ministry, which fixed two main problems... which are the rightful persons and what is the maximum hours of personal assistance. [[Noise.]] For information, everyone...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u277	Please, colleagues, be quiet! Please stop laughing and laughing and yelling.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u278	If nothing changes in this law, since January 1st, the limits for the number of hours per month should be dropped. Currently, as has already been mentioned, the number of users is just over 32 thousand, the number of assistants for personal assistance is similar. What would happen after January 1st? As the number 670 000 people have been used here several times, if we have to be more precise, 669 200 people to the 31st are people with disabilities, no matter how heavy they use some support under the Law for people with disabilities. So all of these around 670,000 people will theoretically be entitled to personal help, and for an indefinite number of hours. By this logic, only personal assistants should be 670,000 on the 8-hour day of the personal assistant. It is clear to everyone that this is virtually impossible. That's why we need the precision of consumers. The Bill proposes determining the degree of dependence on support and therefore the number of hours on the basis of the individual assessment made according to the Methodology for carrying out individual needs assessment, and not as it is now written in the current text of the Law, determining some degree of dependence, which implies a purely subjective approach. Because in the criteria of the Personal Aid Act, there are several uncertain and unspecific terms, for example, about the moderately severe degree of dependence, there, I quote, several times a month, then the very criteria for severe and very severe, it is not clear what they mean. Not to mention that they do not imply a specific number of hours of personal assistance, but to provide unmitigated assistant support to all persons with medical documents for the existence of a certain disability is contrary to the principle of targeting this aid, the budget funds. That is, we strongly support the revision of the levels of dependence so that support is effective and not pro-forma and that it is a degree of dependence related to needs, but it is very important to note that, together with this, the limits of the four levels of dependence in force and the maximum number of hours to 168 hours that are still active. In other words, the amendments to the Law do not in any way take away or restrict anyone's rights in relation to all previous speculative statements and all the terms that BSP colleagues very much like to use:.. cut the Law, cripple the Law.................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u279	Thank you, Mr. Genov. The line, Mr. Kutev. Any other lines? I don't see anyone who wants to.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u280	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Genov, now I really understand the situation in which you have been written some texts and you are reading them, but it is good to see what you are reading. Because actually, a lot of the texts you've read don't concern this article. [[Replications of MP Rumen Genov.]] Because this article does not determine the volume of people who are concerned with the Law, but the amount of aid that will be granted to them. That is, half of your speech, where you say that you are pleased that it was specifically determined that it was 760,000 or 730,000, or 740,000, this simply does not concern this article. And Mr. President has repeatedly stressed the idea that, since we are at second reading, we should work as a member and each one should speak on the text that we are all currently working on, regardless of who wrote the words and whether he understands them or not! In this regard, I have a severe problem with your thesis on how you did not limit the number of hours to 168. Yes, they were in the interim because before that, this distribution of 168 maximum numbers, they were in the Transitional and Final of the previous bill, because they were a temporary solution until full. And now, to date, all the regulations should be in place and the other thing that doesn't work, where there's no limit to 168 hours. I'm going to stop here because I'm going to take the floor in a moment to go deeper into 168 hours and what you're doing, but I'm paying attention to you read more carefully. A MP is a very high place higher than the ridge.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u281	Thank you. Any other lines? Mr. Gokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u282	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Dr. Genov, this figure is 625 or 640 or I don't even know how much, I don't even remember it anymore, you turned it around at the beginning when we started talking about this law. I don't know where you get it from, though, from the statistics. Because there had to be an established register of people with disabilities who had it, but no one could pretend to be full, or that it was accurate, or anything at all, like any single register, of course. So the figure is speculation. Secondly, you say that potentially all people can ask for such help, only that they can ask for it if their individual assessment states that they need such help, so what's stopping you, now I can't understand. Therefore, I do not accept all that you say and those restrictions that you do with the Law. Do them if you want to have any restrictions on this, for example, with individual evaluation, by putting there different criteria for who is entitled to personal help, but do not do them so mechanically because you irritate people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u283	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Is there a third line? I don't see anyone who wants to. Hole, Mr. Genov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u284	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Kutev, I'm going to pass a generous attempt to try to offend me with the fact that someone is writing my texts and I have to read them. I, without trying to offend anyone, would pass this remark on to the second replicator. [[Laughter and applause from GERB.]] As to whether I have spoken in substance in this paragraph, on the contrary, you have not listened to me well. I have spoken precisely about determining the degrees of dependence and I have set the example of this large number of things that can happen if these degrees of dependence are not correctly done. That is why I have said that the Bill proposes that these rates of dependence in the determined percentages proposed be based on the methodology for carrying out an individual assessment of the needs and not as it has so far been in purely subjective terms. That was what I wanted to say and stress. Thanks for giving me a line so I can say it one more time. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u285	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u286	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Now, basically, the cock that's pretty important to me. So I'm going to start with whether this term determines exactly what the degrees of dependence are. In my opinion, anyone who has read the Law and the amendments you are making cannot agree that the levels of dependence are determined. I will only read the first degree briefly. In the old law, in the current law, the definition is: The first degree of moderate dependence on difficulties in need of help to realize various activities in everyday life from several times a month or the need for limited support for personal use. This is written in the current law. In the Law which you propose and claim that it does not determine the volume of the user is undeniable, there is no conversation at all, but you claim that at least it has determined the degree of dependence. The same point that I read, in your version of the Bill is: The first degree of dependence is up to 15 hours per month of personal assistance. What do you define with this "up to 15 hours" and how, in what way, does this relate to individual needs assessment? Well, if the individual assessment of the needs and going now into the fourth degree of dependence, which is the huge part, there are tens of thousands of people at the moment, I don't know what part of those 33 thousand who are using the Law are now, but one of the objectives of my struggle all the time in this law is: what do we do with those who need 24/7? How in some way do we get these people into this action? With this article and with the determination of 168 hours a week we draw them out of this law because they receive the corresponding support they need For them nighttime, holiday days, weekdays don't exist, only they can't live like this. What happens if we accept this text you're giving? The result is that they will actually be relatives, whether they will be neighbors, whether they will be someone else, should separate their weekdays to take care of them, respectively, to change diapers, feed them with a spoon, take them out, pick them up and take them out of bed and any other such activities. This, by the way, leads to addiction. This person with disability falls under severe dependence on his surroundings, and the meaning of the Personal Aid Act is to eliminate the addictions of people with disabilities, they want an independent life. This is the most important thing they want, and that is why personal assistants serve, because they must provide them with the severe fate they have, in the way they exist, the only way that modern society, European and civilized, has figured out how to give them independence. This independence is given through these personal assistants and through personal assistance, and that is exactly what you charge them with the last part of the Law. And it is not true that you do not restrict them, you restrict them obviously in both texts of the Law, and it cannot be challenged. So for me this point, how do I put it, it is the hardest point in what you do, because it actually drops the opportunity to support exactly those who need the sickest, the sickest, the ones who need two or three hours a day, they'll sort of covet on what you do, but those who need 24/7, and I, again, talked to you a few days ago again, I'm convinced that many of you have met with this because I've talked to many colleagues and I know that not only I, many people have gone through this care 24/7 years ago. And after all, everyone who has done it realizes that the MP can pay for a babysitter, only that there is no way to pay for it, and sometimes it becomes dependent for years and dramas in families. Drama not only for people with disabilities, but for those who take care of them, because they start losing work, they start leaving, they start taking care of it. And most importantly, I turn to you again because here I see that Mr. Petrov gets very nervous every time we talk about...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u287	Leave it. Do not engage in dialogue with other MPs!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u288	No, no, on the contrary. I'm responding to a dialogue you didn't respond to just now. But leaving people who are the hardest addict to care eight hours a day only weekdays is a matter of morality, colleagues! And now here I heard: our group was going to arrange to go to the hospital to help with the Kovid. I recommend to you: a few people go to these people, if you haven't done it, stand by to watch an old man around the clock for two days, while his personal assistant at this time can't be paid under current legislation, and come back to finish the Law. [[(Unique applause from BSP for Bulgaria.) Replies from the National Representative Manoil Manev.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u289	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Mr. Petrov, line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u290	It's a personal explanation. Mr. Kutev pointed the finger at me as the bad MP who here does not want to listen to his outbursts. Mr. Kutev, I went bankrupt watching my mother, and I watched her personally for three years, and I went bankrupt. So I am very aware of what you are talking about, but it is not clear to me why, as a social party, as a party that cares for the weak, for the sick in this extremely important issue, you have 15 colleagues in this House?! I can't explain it to myself, and I'm asking you to explain it to me next time you leave. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u291	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Are there any lines on Mr. Kutev's statement? I don't see anyone who wants to. Any other speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm calling off the debate. We're going to vote on § 11. I put to the vote the unacceptable proposal of the MP Anton Kutev and a group of MPs. They voted 98 MPs: 26, against 65, abstentioned 7. The offer is not accepted. I am now putting to the vote § 11 in the version of the Commission. Voted 103 MPs: 78, against 20, abstention 5. The text of Paragraph 11 as amended by the Commission has been adopted. I am making the following procedural proposal that the time of the plenary be extended to the conclusion of the legislative part of the Programme for today, 20 November 2020, and that parliamentary control be removed. Is there a counteroffer? I won't. Voting mode. They voted 93 MPs: 67, against 20, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Mr. Nedyalkov, you? [[Reply by MP Milko Nedyalkov.]] Negative? I won't give you any.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u292	Why?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u293	Because I get up and the next chairman comes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u294	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u295	Here you go, Mr. Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u296	Dear Mr. Chairman! [[GERB lines.]] Aren't you happy? Come on, look at what we're doing as legislators! That is why I am voting negative. Look at the lyrics and see what we're doing! [[GERB lines.]] I'm speaking under art. 12, para. 2, where we define things as they were in the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Act in force until 31 December. We take the paragraph from the transitional provisions and put it here where the exponents need to be determined. And we refer to Methodics. So far, in the Methodology, the determination of grades is one to one as written in the current law: the first degree is moderate, the second degree is heavy, very heavy, the fourth degree is extremely heavy. They're rewritten one-to-one in Methodics. The methodology is one of the sub-normative acts adopted by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. Now we refuse to determine what degrees are and turn to Methodics. In what state is it now in, or when we assign it with Transitional and Final Provisions to be rewritten again? Such legislation does not make permanent legislation in the Republic of Bulgaria, ladies and gentlemen! [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u297	Negative vote!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u298	Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u299	Mr President, honourable Members, I voted against the proposal that has been made to drop Parliamentary control for the following reason. The reduction of parliamentary control to a set of formal procedures is not at the service of the ruling majority, including the government. Five of my colleagues and I had submitted a question to the Prime Minister about the course of negotiations with the Republic of Northern Macedonia a month ago. He was diverted by the President of the National Assembly and was submitted again to Deputy Prime Minister Zaharieva. In the meantime, several hearings were held on the topic of both Deputy Prime Minister Zaharieva and Deputy Prime Minister Karakachanov, of which neither the logic of the negotiations led by Bulgaria...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u300	I don't understand the negative vote!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u301	...or the decision that was proposed.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u302	Mr. Zablyanov, please explain the negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u303	I'm explaining my negative vote. Parliamentary control has a clear constitutional and legislative direction to control the executive in the decisions it makes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u304	I can't find Mr. Zablyanov in any way...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u305	In essence, removing parliamentary control from the National Assembly's agenda, you leave the executive power to take decisions outside the control of the National Assembly that affect the fate of the Bulgarian state and the interstate relations. Today's decision to abolish parliamentary control from the National Assembly's agenda essentially sends the question of the decision that was taken about the Bulgarian-Macedonian relations and the position of the Republic of Bulgaria after the New Year, when the meaning of this decision is questionable.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u306	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u307	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u308	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u309	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm solidarizing what Mr. Zablyanov said, but to suggest that there is no negative vote on procedural matters. Maybe in other cases you can stop a procedure like this. Thank you. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u310	Right. You have the word.. a statement on behalf of a group.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u311	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The topic of today's declaration is the support expressed by the European Commission for the BSP initiative to participate in the planning and control of the management of the funds that the Member States will receive within the framework of the Recovery and Sustainability Mechanism. As President of the Parliamentary Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds, I proposed that the National Recovery Plans, which are part of the Recovery and Sustainability Mechanism, be discussed and approved by the national parliaments before being sent to the European Commission within the framework of the Conference of the Committees on European Affairs of the European Union. In a subsequent institutional dialogue behind the proposal were united representatives of the Bundestra and Bundestag, as well as Lithuanian Sale. A week ago, the official position of European Commission Vice-President Maros Šefčović was also received. Here is the official position addressed to me and to my colleagues in the upper and lower House of the German Parliament and to the Lithuanian Parliament. [[Shows document.]] It says: The recovery and sustainability mechanism is a top priority for the Commission, and I welcome your interest in this new instrument, which aims to repair the damage from the COVID-19 crisis and prepare a better future for future generations. National parliaments are key partners in preparing the European Union recovery plan. The Commission will be able to borrow in the markets for the purposes of the Recovery and Sustainability Mechanism and other programmes only after the ratification of the Council's decision on the European Union's own resources. In many countries, this includes a parliamentary process, and the Commission believes that national parliaments will act effectively to allow the new financial structure to enter into force on 1 January 2021. And more: The commitment of national parliaments to the Recovery and Sustainability Mechanism plan is key to effective implementation from the Commission's point of view. Progress in terms of plans will often be measured in relation to the milestones that may include the adoption of legislative acts. The implementation of these milestones will be important to ensure that these plans are both timely and high-quality. The Commission strongly encourages national authorities to engage in broad consultations and to involve all stakeholders in the development of national recovery and sustainability plans. National parliaments are among the main stakeholders to ensure that these recovery and sustainability plans are targeted at relevant policies and investments. Honourable Members, allow me in just a few words to explain to you about the Recovery and Sustainability Mechanism, because through it, the European Union will invest 672 billion. EUR loans and grants in the form of priority funding to help Europe emerge stronger and more sustainable than the current economic crisis caused by the CoVID-19 pandemic. The financial framework for Bulgaria is 6.2 billion. EUR grants and 4,5 billion Euro loans. The Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev presented a draft of the National Plan for Reconstruction and Sustainability. Its real content is an administrative compilation created by portfolio ministries, with EU guidance policies being used more formally. The way in which the European Commission reacts, through this letter, which it has addressed to me and to my colleagues, there is a clear political subtext to the BSP's initiative for a sanction of parliament, that this composition of the government will program, manage and ensure efficiency and transparency in the spending of billions of euros of public resources. Unfortunately, the Commission has once again signalled that there is a high risk management and administrative environment in our country. I would also add an absolute lack of economic policy and strategic planning. We risk billions in support of the economy and people leaking out without creating social and economic stability and sustainability. And so are many other billions before them. A high-risk management and administrative environment means corruption at high management levels, registered mainly in the allocation of European public resources. It also means a complete refusal of essential, meaningful and structural reforms in the education and health systems, and not only in them, and replacing them with sanctifiers, construction and technical improvements. But most of all, it means 10-year domination of a management philosophy built around obtaining and distributing a ready-made public resource, which does not support an effective economy and competitive business environment, but a limited range of political-corporative dependencies. Therefore, the BSP insists on the National Recovery and Sustainability Plan to go through a discussion and supplement in the portfolio committees and then to be seen in plenary. Parliament has clearly defined mechanisms for including expert, professional, scientific and potential of branch and non-governmental organisations in its work. In a political context, the parliamentary sanction on planning and then control over the implementation of the Plan through the mechanisms of parliamentary control would make it sustainable in the next mandates of the executive and legislative powers. I recall that the funds under the Recovery and Sustainability Mechanism have a temporary nature and we can make use of them by 31 December 2024 at the latest, and they must be planned and approved by 31 December 2020. We still have time to hold a thorough political and expert debate and come up with a really quality national recovery plan. BSP insists on bringing the Project into parliament and makes this request to Deputy Prime Minister Donchev, who is responsible for its preparation and to the President of the National Assembly. Maros Šefčovič's position will be given to them on the appropriate administrative path. A copy of the correspondence with the European Commission will also receive the chairmen of the parliamentary groups. The parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria is ready to specify the deadlines for discussing the draft National Plan in the committees and in the hall. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u312	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u313	Under § 12, there is a proposal of the MPs Anton Kutev and a group of MPs: In § 12 t. 1 is out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 sentence first, after the words.............................................................................................................. 2. Alinei 2, 3 and 4 are amended as follows: . (2) Where the personal assistance is a child with permanent disability for which monthly assistance under art. 8d, para. 5, t. 2 of the Family Aid Act for children, in the application declaration under para. 1 The applicant gives written consent up to 380 BGN. from the aid, with the specific amount corresponding to the specified number of hours in the individual needs assessment, to be translated into the budget of the municipality by the Social Assistance Agency after the appointment of an assistant and the conclusion of the employment contract. The funds are at the expense of the annual determined by the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria amount of the monthly aid under art. 8d, para. 5, t. 2 of the Family Aid Act for children and for the hours determined in the direction of art. 25, para. 2 of the Law on Persons with Disabilities. A copy of the application shall be sent by service to the Agency for Social Assistance. On the basis of the consent in the application, the Agency for Social Assistance shall transfer the amount to the municipality's budget. (3) When a user of personal assistance receives a supplement for foreign assistance under art. 103 of the Social Security Code, in the application declaration under para. 1 The applicant shall give written consent to transfer the supplement to the Agency for Social Assistance from the National Insurance Institute after the appointment of the assistant and the conclusion of the employment contract. A copy of the application shall be sent by service to the National Insurance Institute. On the basis of the agreement in the application, the Agency for Social Assistance shall transfer the funds received for the addition to the municipality's budget. (4) When the number of hours determined in the direction under art. 25, para. 2 of the Law on People with Disabilities is greater than the number of hours that can be paid with the funds under para. 2 or 3, the provider of personal assistance is obliged to provide and pay the assistant with personal assistance for the full number of hours worked, but not more than the number of hours determined in the course.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u314	I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Anton Kutev and a group of MPs. 90 MPs voted: 18, against 70, abstention 2. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 12. They voted 93 MPs: 73, against 17, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u315	Under § 13, there is a proposal from the MP Anton Kutev and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 14 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 everywhere after the words of the person with........................................... is added................................................... 2. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: . (3) Within 7 days of receipt of the documents under para. 1 or expiry of the term under para. 2, after verification of compliance with the requirements of the law, the mayor of the municipality: 1. prepare the conclusion of an agreement between the user, assistant and the provider of personal assistance; 2. conclude the agreement between the user, assistant and the provider of personal assistance; 3. inform the applicant if it is not possible to provide personal assistance due to the lack of candidates for assistants.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u316	Are there any speeches? Mr. Kutev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u317	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! For me, this paragraph is key because it collects and I mean, in particular, the third point of the subparagraph three, it includes all the shortcomings that we have been talking about so far under this law. Because at the moment when we give the mayors the right not to comply with the Law for the reason that there are no candidates for personal assistants, we are in fact absolutely depreciating the Law, that is to say, by this point, allowing the Law not to be implemented for any reason. Frankly, the probability of not reaching the candidates for personal assistants does not depend, as has been said, on whether or not 760 people will appear, because we have talked about it a lot, but it has a bearing on this point, because the assessment of individual needs should contain these 760, it is no accident that 40 have now appeared. But whether there will be 40, 60 or 80 thousand people who need a personal assistant, we have much more unemployment, even at the moment. Separately we have tens of thousands of Bulgarians who work as personal assistants all around Bulgaria, but mainly in Greece. The main difference why they work in Greece and not in Bulgaria is because the normal payment in Bulgaria is 1200 BGN. per month, while in Greece is 800 euros, i.e. 1600 BGN, and perhaps more with additional things, and now tens of thousands of Bulgarians are working there. Can we, if we make the Law regime such that we guarantee these people the opportunity to work adequately and do the same work in Bulgaria, ensure the need for assistants? I definitely think we can. What's stopping us? The texts in the Law, including those to which we will be leaning shortly, where 1.4 becomes 1.2.. it is about the ratio compared to the minimum wage. At the same time, I would like to remind you that when we adopted this law, my proposals at the time were not for 1.4, they were for more. If those odds were accepted, which we proposed when the Law was adopted two years ago, then perhaps the payment would have been adequate. And, yes, it would have cost the state more money, only the result is that we would have been one of the few countries in Europe where there is adequate personal assistance and which provides assistants. We'd have 60, 70 or 30,000. people, as they submitted the applications, more personal assistants to work in Bulgaria and from the point of view of the treatment of this law this country would have looked quite different. The money she would have needed would have been probably several hundred million, but they probably wouldn't have gone to renovation blocks, which means for some plastic panels. Maybe they wouldn't have gone for the highway for three kilometers off the highway. Maybe they wouldn't have gone for something else they're spending on, like airplanes at the American Treasury, but they would have changed Bulgaria's social landscape. That's what happens here. Now we say, what if the assistants don't come, what do we do with them? Because the mayors are really worried and they say, "You're forcing me by law to have assistants and provide them, but when no one comes to apply, what am I supposed to do?" That's a valid question. The answer to all of us is to raise the pay and make the terms of the Law such that there are assistants. That's the answer. That's exactly what we're not doing. With these repairs we're making right now, we're going in the opposite direction, and we're killing this as an idea. This is the result of our work.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u318	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. Procedure? Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u319	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My procedure is for you, Mr. Chairman, and the leader of today's session because you are not following the debate, because the speaker did not speak specifically under art. 14 or § 13. At second reading, the speakers spoke text by text, not in general throughout the bill. So, I ask that you, as chairman and host of today's sitting, keep an eye on and strictly follow the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u320	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u321	I want a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u322	[[Calls MP Anton Kutev.]] No, it was a procedure and you were also not mentioned by name. The way you're leading it?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u323	Dear Mr. Chairman, I have taken the procedure in the manner of conduct. What if I were to say a bunch of things against you right now? Do you have the right to answer me? I'm in mode of conduct. Can you imagine, knowing what a sweet talker I am, what can I say about you? It doesn't make any sense when someone talks against a colleague in the manner of conduct, that you don't give me the personal explanation. Because she was talking about me specifically.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u324	I've kept the rules, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u325	And he was saying things that were pointless because I was talking right on par. 3... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u326	You can't insult your colleagues by saying that they say meaningless things.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u327	I was talking about it quite specifically. 3, p. 3, I specifically talked about it, my whole speech was focused there. That someone is hungry right now and for him the problems of his stomach are more important than the problems of people with disabilities is none of my business. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u328	Okay, Mr. Kutev, thank you. You've already lost... I'm calling off the debate. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Anton Kutev and a group of MPs. They voted 99 MPs: 22, against 68, abstentioned 9. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 13. Vote 100 MPs: 80 against 19, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u329	Under Paragraph 14, there is a proposal from the MP Anton Kutev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15 is created. In conducting treatment abroad and/or performing a rehabilitation service to a user, the assistant may continue to provide personal assistance after notification under para. 1 if accompanying the user. Under § 15 there is a proposal from the MP Anton Kutev and a group of MPs: suppl. 15 is out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 16 is "4." in the case of failure to continue to provide personal assistance due to the lack of candidates for assistants. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 16: supposed to In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Finally, chapter 8 is added. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 17: Seventeen. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 18 the following amendments shall be made: 1.In para. 1 the word "Personal' is replaced by "Personal'. 2.Al. 2 is amended as follows: (2) The mayor of the municipality with a contract may assign to a social service provider with a license to provide social service assistant support under the Social Services Act, the activities of a personal assistance provider. The award shall be carried out under the terms and conditions of the Social Services Act. 3.Alinei 3, 4, 5 and 6 are cancelled.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u330	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 14. Cancel the vote. I shall put to the vote the amendment proposed for § 14. Vote 96 MPs: 91, against 3, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Anton Kutev and a group of MPs. 100 MPs voted: 17 against 76, abstention 7. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the texts of paragraphs 15, 16 and 17. Vote 95 MPs: 82 against 8, abstention 5. The proposals have been accepted. Mr. Kutev's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u331	Dear Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry that apparently people are worried that maybe we could have stayed for another two hours. I have to! But I ask you to vote on them one by one, because, frankly, there were two or three paragraphs in this law where I took a vote on the 15th is not the same and I am against it, but for paragraphs 16 and 17, I am for the 16th and 17th. By putting the three together to vote, I have no choice but to vote against. Just vote them one by one.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u332	Moving on, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u333	Under § 18, there is a proposal from the MPs Anton Kutev and a group of MPs: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18. The Commission proposes to create a new § 19: "Seriously, I'm In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 20 words "suppliers" and "suppliers" shall be replaced by "suppliers" and "suppliers" shall be replaced by "suppliers" and
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u334	Statements? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Anton Kutev and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Vote 98 MPs: 17 against 71, abstention 10. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 18 and the Commission proposal to create a new § 19 with a text on the Commission Report. Vote 98 MPs: 82, against 12, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u335	Under § 19 there is a proposal from the MPs Anton Kutev and a group of MPs: I'm sorry, but I'm sorry, but I'm The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 19, which shall become § 20: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 21 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Alinea One is canceled. 2. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: . (3) The personal assistance provider shall ensure the provision and payment of the personal assistance to the assistant for the full number of hours worked, but not more than the number of hours determined in the field under art. 25, para. 2 of the Law on People with Disabilities.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u336	Statements? I can't see. I will put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MPs Anton Kutev and a group of MPs. 100 MPs voted: 21, against 73, abstention 6. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the version of § 19, which becomes § 20. They voted 93 MPs: 78, against 10, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u337	Under § 20, there is a proposal from the MP Anton Kutev and a group of MPs: 20 is out of the question. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20, which shall become § 21.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u338	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Anton Kutev and a group of MPs. Vote 97 MPs: 18, against 73, abstention 6. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 20, which shall become § 21. Vote 97 MPs: 82, against 13, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u339	Under § 21, there is a proposal from the MP Anton Kutev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 21 be rejected. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 25 the following additions are made: 1. The current text becomes para. 1 et c. 2 After the words........................................................................................................... 2. The creation of para. 2: The applicant of personal assistance may also set other requirements for assistants at his discretion depending on the needs of the user. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 23: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 26 para. 1 is amended as (1) The applicant for an assistant shall submit to a provider of personal assistance under art. 18, para. 1 or 2 application on a template to which it applies: 1. CV; 2. a copy of a contract of employment, if the applicant for assistant work, or a declaration that there is no contract of employment; 3. a statement that no measures have been imposed on him as a perpetrator of the Law on Protection against Domestic Violence; 4. a document certifying professional experience in providing assistant care and/or a document certifying professional qualification, where available; 5. medical document for taking up work. Under § 24, there is a proposal from the MP Anton Kutev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 24 be rejected. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 25, which shall become § 24.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u340	Statements? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the Commission proposal to reject the text of the importer of § 21; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 22; the version proposed for § 23; the Commission proposal to reject § 24 by importer and the text of the importer for § 25, which shall become § 24. Vote 89 MPs: 82 against 6, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u341	Under § 26, there is a proposal from the MP Anton Kutev and a group of MPs: In Paragraph 26, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 26, which shall become § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 32 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. The second sentence of the sentence is replaced by the following: In this case, the words "In case the explanations are relevant" and a third sentence is created: "The refusal to accept the explanations is motivated." 2. The creation of para. 4. (4) In the cases referred to in art. 15, para. 3 The assistant shall provide a report on the hours worked in the first three working days of the month following the month of treatment and/or the provided rehabilitation service and a document certifying their performance. The payment of the due remuneration shall be made in the order of para. 2 for the period concerned. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 27, which shall become § 26.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u342	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal by the Commission of the Parliamentary Representative Anton Kutev and a group of MPs for the dropping of the item. 1 of § 26. 90 MPs voted: 18, against 68, abstention 4. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for § 26, which shall become § 25, as well as the text of the importer for § 27, which shall become § 26. Vote 87 MPs: 75 against 9, abstention 3. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u343	Under § 28 there is a proposal from the National Representative Anton Kutev and a group of MPs: In § 28 the words "Art. 8, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 8, para. 3s and the comma after them is dropped out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 28, which shall become § 27: "The Bible says: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 34 the word "supplied" is replaced by "coordinated with the assistant." The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 29, which shall become § 28: ....... 28........................................... 28 In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 35 shall be added at the end, including the funds under art. 33, para. The following points are inserted after point 2 (Commission Implementing The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 30, which shall become § 29.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u344	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Anton Kutev and a group of MPs. They voted 91 MPs: 19 against 72, no abstentions. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for paragraphs 28 and 29 which shall become paragraphs 27 and 28, as well as the text of the importer for § 30 which shall become § 29. Vote 89 MPs: 73 against 8, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u345	Paragraph 31? a proposal from the National Representative Anton Kutev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 31 be rejected. Under § 32, there is a proposal from the MP Anton Kutev and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 32, which shall become § 30. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 33, which shall become § 31.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u346	Thank you. Statements? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject § 31 by importer. Vote 92 MPs: 87, against 4, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Anton Kutev and a group of MPs. Vote 92 MPs: 22, against 68, abstention 2. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 32, which shall become 30, and the text of the importer for § 33, which shall become § 31. Vote 89 MPs: 72 against 13, abstention 4. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u347	Under § 34, there is a proposal from the MP Anton Kutev and a group of MPs: supposed to be a member of the Board of The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 34, which shall become § 32.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u348	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Anton Kutev and a group of MPs. They voted 93 MPs: 15 against 76 abstentions 2. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 34, which shall become § 32. Vote 88 MPs: 72 against 15, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u349	Under § 35 there is a proposal from the MP Anton Kutev and a group of MPs: supposed to meet the requirements of The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 35, which shall become § 33: ................................................ In the transitional and final provisions of § 5 the words
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u350	Statements? Mr. Kutev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u351	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Clearly aware of the frustration of some of the honourable MPs, I am obliged to draw your attention to this paragraph because this is a one-year delay in transferring the activities to the Agency for Persons with Disabilities, respectively its functioning. This thing had it, i.e. the point of having to start working had it in the previous law. In practice, delaying becomes for one simple reason. Someone has not done their job until now, if there is no other logic. So far, no one in the ruling majority or the Ministry has ever told me any other logic. I heard there might be some money on some programs looking for them. If that's true, I don't know. [[Heckling]] Yeah, from the World Bank. In any case, delaying the functioning of the agency slows down the operation of the Law and is problematic in how the entire system works. Personally, I don't excuse it, if it's really about money, to postpone the Agency by one year. I even less justify it if the occasion is not any money, it's just unfinished business. In both cases there is a problem of majority, i.e. government, and there is unfinished business. Why the unfinished business? Maybe I shouldn't ask, but you should ask, because in the end, no matter how much I talk here, you as a majority are responsible for all this politics. In my opinion, you should be asking yourself why this is happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u352	Thank you. Second speech you have the floor, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u353	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! With the proposal made under § 35 the establishment of the State Agency for Persons with Disabilities, which was to take place from 1 January 2021, has been postponed to 2022. I'm going to return the subject to a few days ago, we were looking at amendments to the Law on Disabled People. If you recall, the debate on the establishment of the State Agency for People with Disabilities was also under this law. I would like to express my concern, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling majority, that the Law was adopted on 5 December 2018. Within two years this State Agency for Persons with Disabilities had to be institutionalised. Now, two years later, exactly two years later, we say that such an agency cannot manage to create. We will create it within two years, possibly by the end of next year. The law on administration has clearly defined how a state agency is created, with a principal there always being the Prime Minister. If we read the speeches of Minister Sacheva and of people from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, we will see that at the moment the issues related to the State Agency for Disabilities are extremely many, there have been serious debates, including the World Bank, will attract us to help us, such as how to make it this state agency, since we all know how to institutionalize how a similar state body is constituted. You are most likely running away from responsibility and again you want to transfer responsibility only and only to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy because we have heard in comments that this state agency for people with disabilities, you know, would be a committee, would not be a state agency, but a committee. What we are doing with delaying this government agency for an infinitely long time is three years, for three years we cannot construct such a body, is extremely dangerous and shows the neglect of the management of the problems of people with disabilities. If we read the Law on Persons with Disabilities, we will see what the role of this government agency is. It is coordinating on all issues, but it is also responsible for coordinating the process of preparing individual needs assessment. How long will we postpone the entry of these social laws into force, because we in the Law on Persons with Disabilities, and in the Law on Social Services, and in this Law on Personal Aid, are delaying back in the years of the Second, Third Year, the Sub-Law, the establishment of the relevant structures, so that the problems of people with disabilities can be resolved effectively? So my appeal is: let's pay attention to what is currently being offered to us and call on your administrative and all other guides to work a little bit more really for the benefit of the disabled. That is why we propose from this year on 1 January that such a state agency for people with disabilities will begin to exist and operate. We gave you two years off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u354	Thank you. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u355	Mr. Chairman, I'm addressing you. We in the group of the United patriots are concerned about the fact that Mr. Ademov has borrowed a ministerial chair in the consideration of this item on the agenda. If it is in the light of the fact that we are following some kind of pandemic measures, the distance of stenographers, debaters and so on, we agree, but if Mr. Ademov is preparing again to take up the post of Minister, we strongly oppose. [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) Single applause from OP.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u356	Mr. Angelov, you're intriguing with Mr. Gokov, as far as I understand. Are there any other statements? I can't see. Mr. Ademov, we will proceed with the vote. I will put to the vote the unsupported proposal by the MPs Anton Kutev and a group of MPs. They voted 99 MPs: 20, against 76, abstention 3. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for § 35, which shall become § 33. Vote 98 MPs: 80 against 14, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u357	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. Under § 36, there is a proposal from the MPs Anton Kutev and a group of MPs: supposed to meet the requirements of The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 36, which shall become § 34: ................. Until 31 December 2021, under Article 31 of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 37, which shall become § 35. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 38, which shall become § 36. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 39, which shall become § 37. The Commission proposes to create a new § 38: ....38........................................................................... Until the regulatory acts are carried out in accordance with that law, the regulatory acts in force shall apply. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 40, which shall become § 39.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u358	Thank you. Statements? Mrs. Klisurska, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u359	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I take note of the proposal made under § 36, namely where the coefficient is frozen on the basis of which the remuneration of the personal assistants is calculated. Once again, the year is 2018, again I say, there was one action plan in which all interested parties agreed from 2021 that the remuneration ratio for personal assistants should be 1.4, to be frozen at 1.2 of the minimum wage only within 2020. At the moment, from all public institutions where you can say it, you say that the increase in the minimum wage will reflect on the remuneration of personal assistants and that is the basis of your proposal to freeze the coefficient. On top of that, you mislead Bulgarian citizens with writings that you understand the remuneration of personal assistants would become BGN 930. I remember that you made this statement during the first reading of BGN 930. personal assistants. So take out your calculators and figure out what is 650 times 1, 2, 780 BGN, not 930 BGN. And after deduction of the necessary insurance that the personal assistant owes, the tax that the personal assistant owes will eventually receive somewhere in the order of about 600 leva. Do you think that a person who performs this work is extremely specific and heavy, can take the commitment to work for 600 BGN. This job? And here we are talking about the adequacy of remuneration for personal assistants. How do we want the mayor to find a personal assistant, and we'll resort to the hypothesis when there's no one willing to have one? Exactly because we are currently betting this extremely low, ridiculous level of remuneration. One that would act from 2021 will actually allow if you calculate 650 times 1.4, makes 910 BGN. After deduction of insurance and taxes, personal assistants will receive a little more with 100 BGN. More, but more. That is what you are doing with your proposal to freeze the coefficient. Why? Is your money in focus again when we talk about solving a problem of that group of Bulgarian society, which is most affected, which is most disadvantaged and needs our protection? Therefore, review this proposal of yours. Do not vote on it, but accept what we want, to remain the current coefficient of 1.4, and I believe that this will be a more adequate and fair proposal that should happen today in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u360	Thank you. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u361	I suppose this will be the last statement under the Law. I hear the discontent in the right hand grows, if it is the right hand, of course. Colleagues, on this ratio, we had disputes when we first introduced the Law. The law was passed two years ago, roughly the way it was introduced for the most part, except for a few points in which you then made changes. And one of the changes was by this coefficient. According to your change since then, we should now have had from January 1st - 1.4 odds. You're now saying that one more year is going to be 1.2, and then it's going to be 1.4. I would like to remind you that the proposal we made at the time I do not remember how much it was, but it was certainly at least two more on top, i.e. 1.6 or 1.8, I have no accurate memory because there were graphs, but certainly my proposal, if we really have to solve problems with this law, not just not to cut 1.2 for another year, but to be at least 1.5 for the simple reason that only then can real assistants be provided. Here this issue is not a bargain for the coefficient, it is not even a question of the money that we will allocate, here the question is about the meaning of everything we do and with the whole, not just with the Personal Aid Act, but with the whole range of laws for people with disabilities. Because the main thing that I am saying again, we were aiming as legislators when we wrote this whole legislative assembly of laws with social services, with people disabilities and so on, there was something very clear, clear European belief that these laws and this support should ensure independent lives for disabled people. When the assistant's salary is 600 leva. Or 800 leva, she's such that he can't hire an outsider to do his job. That he can't hire him for 24/7 is clear, but he can't even find him for those notorious eight hours and so on, and he can't hire an outside assistant, which is what we're offering here?! By the way, it works for some of the disabled, those who care for their relatives. Because this will enable relatives who are still caring for someone with disabilities to get some 600 leva, which is still something. But it is something, and it is not a solution to what we wanted to do with these bills, namely an independent life for people with disabilities, precisely to achieve European normal legislation in this area. And the reason for everything we've done in the last two hours, this whole change of the Law thing, it's actually rooted here, it's about money! It is said that we are currently not asking the state budget to allocate some 200 or 300 million. lv. depending on which digit we change, so that we can provide the process of personal assistance for people with disabilities that it works. And to save that money, we're going to cripple him again. That's why I'm telling you we're maiming the law. Because with these amendments that we are putting into place, it simply cannot work or work partially, but it does not achieve the goal that we have, and at the same time there is money in the state and the money goes for the most amazing things Again, I say to you: everything we have done today, I continue to claim that it is a matter of morality and conscience. It's not that I haven't had to be in a majority and vote on things that I don't agree with them very much, I know how a person feels about this situation, but there are things that I wouldn't vote on that is one of them.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u362	Thank you. - What's the line? Statements? Mr. Nedyalkov and Mr. Sirakov will be the last.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u363	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I wish to look at the issue of the coefficient on the other side and here, for example, people who many times during the discussion of social laws plead to enter the family more money, let them turn things around so that they say that too much money is given to a foster family, to foster mothers and so on. Under the Personal Aid Act, disabled people often have their closest relatives as assistants. Here is a philosophical question in the field of social assistance: should the closest relatives of mothers and relatives take full care of a person with disabilities who is in severe condition? But in the end, increasing the odds makes it possible to preserve the family, to preserve the relationships that are created in a family where there is a disabled person. Look at this issue on this human side and then reach for the board so you know how to vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u364	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Sirakov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u365	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Yeah, it's really about money here. In the previous two debates, it was about how much the services under this law could be used, and in the first debate it was about who could use this law. The three of them unite one thing. I will agree with everything the BSP has said so far. And this is their left philosophy regarding personal help. The right-wing philosophy laid down in this law means that there must be parameters, there must be criteria that determine who to use the service, what volume to use the service and what means the service should use. The left approach reads: to everyone as much as they want, if it can be more. The answer of the leftist opposition is: how to do that? Well, deal with it, because you're in charge, and it's your responsibility. People who understand social policy did not support this law in the first vote in 2018. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u366	Thank you, Mr. Sirakov. - What's the line? Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u367	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Sirakov, the people who supported this law in 2018, as I recall, is the full majority of this House. Personally, whether you were in this majority or not, I can't know. That's what you know better than I do. But you supported him, in the sense GERB, and all who were in the Chamber. It was adopted with full unanimity, as I recall, so these are the people who supported it. But beyond that remark, which is not the most important point, I think, is the other point - are we talking about left and right in this case? Yes, there is a left-hand point of view, especially when it comes to groups that are in a difficult situation in society. There's the left dot, there's the right dot. Only what I'm talking about on this point with 1.4 is not the left-hand side, but how does it work? If a law works, the right ones should be okay with it. This isn't about fighting for more money for some groups of people. I explained it to you clearly when you give them 600 leva, you can't get the assistants together. When you don't get the assistants together, you put in the last one, I don't remember what paragraph it was, which says the mayors don't have to comply with the law if they don't have assistants. And when mayors don't have to do it, the law doesn't work and people don't get personal help. Is that right? If that's right, then I already understand why I'm so left.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u368	Second line? Mr. Syracuse? I won't. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the division. They voted 86 MPs: 71, against 8, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Anton Kutev and a group of MPs. 90 MPs voted: 21, against 59, abstention 10. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the following texts: the version proposed for the text of § 36, which becomes § 37; the text of the importer for § 37, which becomes § 35; for § 38, which becomes § 36; and for § 39, which becomes § 37; the Commission's proposal to create a new § 38 with a text on the Commission Report; and the text of the importer for § 40, which becomes § 39. Vote 91 MPs: 74 against 15, abstention 2. All proposals are accepted. Dear Members of Parliament, I propose that we return to the second reading of the Draft Law on Supplement to the Law on Obligations and Contracts, since after the vote on editorial amendments of the Parliamentary Representative Iskren Veselinov is not put to the vote the text under § 2, which is actually a replacement text. [[Heckling]] By § 2, we vote on the proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Iskren Veselinov for amendments to the text of the Commission. This proposal is accepted. Vote 84 MPs: 78, against 4, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. I will now put to the vote the text of § 2 on the Commission, together with the amendments adopted so far. The text I am putting to the vote is: ..................................................... In the case of welded cases, the limitation under art. 112 shall begin on the day on which the claim has become due. In the case of pending enforcement proceedings, the limitation period shall begin to run from the first enforcement action and, where such action has not been initiated, from the day of the entry into force of the claim. Vote 84 MPs: for 83, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Let's continue with: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR HELPING EARTH PRODUCERS. He was brought in by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u369	Report on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Assistance Act No 002-01-65, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 10 November 2020. Adopted in the first vote on 13 November 2020 for a second vote. "Repair for amendment and supplement of the Agricultural Support Act'. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 30 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2 is created t. 6: It's six. e-service system. 2. In para. 4 t. 1 words................................................................................. 1, 4 and 5 1, 4, 5 and 6 The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 32 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 is finally added, which is approved annually by the Executive Director of the State Fund...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2. In para. 2 sentence 2 is finally added to the system under art. 30, para. 2, p. 6.................................................................................. 3. Paragraph 5 is amended as follows: (5) The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall lay down, by regulation, the conditions and procedures for submitting applications. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 33 the following 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: s (1) The system of identification of agricultural parcels is a geographical information system with a layered data structure that is created on the basis of orthoimages and acts at the level of a reference plot of physical block. The structure of the data shall be determined by the ordinance under art. 30, para. 6................................................ 2. Alinei 3 and 4 are amended as follows: In the system for identification of agricultural parcels shall be: 1. create and maintain digital geographical and attribute data for boundaries, identification codes and a way of lasting use of physical blocks; 2. create and maintain other digital geographical and attribute data for certain territories and areas of the country that are relevant for the administration of support schemes and measures; 3. use digital and attribute data created and updated by other state and municipal authorities, including land estate data. (4) To reflect the actual status and use of the areas, the data in the system for identification of agricultural parcels shall be updated annually by: 1. decipher (computer assisted reading) of the current digital orthophoto card and/or 2. coverage of the results of the specialized field inspections of reference parcels, which shall be carried out after notification to the beneficiaries under conditions and in order determined by the ordinance under art. 30, para. 6, and/or 3. reporting of the results of on-the-spot checks under art. 37; 4. other sources of orthogonal images and digital data for the relevant year, to which the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry has access and may use in the absence of information under point 4. 1.... 3.............................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 33b The 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The ploughing, conversion and/or use of the areas included in the layer shall be prohibited. 2. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: (4) In the case of persons under the order of para. 3 unlawful ploughing, transformation and/or use of an area under para. 1 The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry issued an order to restore the area. The recovery shall be made within 6 months by the intruder and, where this is not established, by the holder on a legal basis of the area or by the owner. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u370	Thank you, Mrs. Belova. Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the text of the importer for the name of the Law; the text of the importer for § 1; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 2; the version proposed for the text of § 3; the version proposed for § 4; the text of the importer for § 5; the version proposed for § 6; and the text of the importer for § 7. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The texts put to the vote have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u371	Under § 8 there is a proposal of the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the National Representative Maria Belova, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 41 the following 1. In para. the fourth sentence of the third sentence is deleted; 2. Paragraph 5 is amended as follows: . (5) The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall grade, summarize and transmit to the Paying Agency once or at stages data on registered legal grounds for the use of agricultural land. No legal basis shall be considered to support leases or leases for: 1. properties for which the user has obligations under art. 34, para. Art. 6, Art. 37c, para. 7 for the lands under art. 37c, para. 3, p. 2 and under art. 37g, para. 12 of the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land; 2. properties from the state and municipal land fund of users who have obligations under leases or leases of agricultural land from the state and municipal land fund; 3. the parts of properties left outside the arrays for use under art. Art. 37c. 37g of the Law on Property and Use of Agricultural Land. 3. In para. 6: (a) in the second sentence after the word (b) in the third sentence, the words The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 43 the following 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 2 a dash shall be placed at the end and added to the areas which have not been subject to checks under art. 37, para. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. (b) To be created t. 4. "4." The areas requested for support shall be assessed as eligible for support in checks carried out under art. 37, para. 3 and 4. 2. In para. 3: (a) c. 6 after the words. 33a, para. A dash shall be placed and added for areas which have not been subject to checks under art. 37, para. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. (b) To be created t. 10: ..10. The areas requested for support shall be assessed as non-compliant with the eligibility conditions for support in checks carried out under art. 37, para. 3 and 4 The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 47a The following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 2, the words 2. In para. 3 the words The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u372	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 8; the version proposed for § 9; the version proposed for § 10 and the text of the importer for § 11. Vote 78 MPs: 73, none, abstention 5. The texts put to the vote have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u373	'Concluding provisions'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. According to § 12 there is a proposal of the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Bürhan Abase, made in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12: The Commission supports the proposal. ................................................................................... (1) Within 5 years from 23 December 2020, the lands under art. 19th para. 1 of the Law on the ownership and use of agricultural land shall be provided by the municipal councils only under the conditions of § 27, para. 2 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Property and Use of Agricultural Land (prom., SG No. ...) as well as for: 1. the implementation of technical infrastructure sites, the implementation of activities under the Law on Underground Treasures and other projects for which forced alienation is permitted under law; 2. the creation of new or extension of the construction boundaries of existing urbanised territories (populations and settlements) for the construction of municipal infrastructure sites and upon the entry into force of a common spatial plan; 3. implementation of projects for the construction of agricultural land for the land of the municipality under art. 37f and 37h of the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land; 4. investment projects which received a Class A Investment Certificate under the Investment Promotion Act, where this is stated in the certification of the project; 5. energy objects within the meaning of § 1, t. 23 of the additional provisions of the Energy Act; 6. construction or expansion of establishments outside the urbanized territories, where the same are movable objects within the meaning of the Law on Construction of the territory and the requirements of the ordinance under art. 137, para. 10 of the Animal Health Act. (2) The arrangements with the lands under para. 1 may be carried out by decision of the municipal council, adopted by a majority of two thirds of the total number of advisers, where: 1. in the cases under para. 1, t. 2 this is provided for by the entry into force of a common planning plan for the respective territory of the municipality; 2. in the cases under para. 1, t. 4 and 5 are exhausted the lands of the municipal land fund on the territory of the municipality. (3) For energy objects under para. 1, t. 5 when the lands of the municipal land fund have not been exhausted, management transactions with the lands under para. 1 may be carried out after a decision of the municipal council adopted by a majority of two thirds of the total number of advisers and the provision of equivalent property by the municipal land fund according to assessment prepared by an independent valuer under the ordinance under art. 36, para. 2 of the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land. (4) Within the term under para. 1 the lands under art. 19th para. 1 of the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land shall not be subject to other authorising transactions other than those referred to in para. 1. (5) Persons granted land under para. 1, t. 4 may not transfer the use or ownership of them for a period of 10 years from the granting. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u374	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Abase.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u375	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My proposal is under § 12 of the Final Provisions of this Law concerning Art. 19. Article 19 is the residual municipal land fund, residual because this fund, these lands are not owned by natural and legal persons, are not owned by the State, are not owned by the municipality. They were granted to the municipality under the Use Act, for management until citizens with judicial decisions for a restored right of land are present, which they must implement from this fund. For this reason, the legislator in the previous five-year period had banned, put a moratorium on the disposition of this fund by the municipalities, but only to manage them with short-term contracts for one year. The idea of the legislator this time is also to ban the disposal of these lands for the next five years, but with five exceptions. The five exceptions concern infrastructure objects, energy objects, linear objects and so on. My suggestion is that the municipalities should have the right to dispose of the residual municipal land fund in the few cases where the appropriate place for an establishment is on land of art. 19 and in minimum quantities, in accordance with the Animal Treatment Act for number of animals and the size of the establishment, so that they do not have this obstacle which appeared before them when the establishments were registered a month ago under art. 137 of the Animal Health Act. Although the legislator has granted a number of reliefs to farmers to build agricultural buildings on agricultural land, they cannot benefit from this relief because when they fall into art. 19, they don't have a property certificate. With this decision, colleagues, we will help many of our farmers, farmers to register as livestock farmers and get out into the light, as they say. Please support the proposal, which will support the few remaining people who still want to deal with livestock in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-20.u376	Thank you, Mr. Abase. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for the name of the subdivision; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 12 and the text of the importer for § 13. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The texts put to the vote have been adopted. Dear Members of Parliament, the next plenary session is on 24 November, Tuesday, at 12:00 in accordance with the adopted agenda. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
