ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that it be included in the Programme for Work of the National Assembly the following additional point: Please vote. They voted 179 MPs: 159 against 1, abstention 19. The motion is accepted. Message: Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria in implementation of art. 65, para. 1 of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that by order he has authorised the dispatch of a military ship with his statutory arms and crew servicemen outside the territory of the country to participate in the anti-subsidical exercise of the Romanian Navy with international participation, which will take place in the western Black Sea, the territorial waters of Romania and the port of Constanta from 26 March to 5 April 2020, including. The notification was received on 22 January 2020. No 003-09-9 and granted to the Defence Committee. We move on to the first item of today's agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR ANIMAL TREATMENT. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 20 January 2020. The report from the Committee on Agriculture and Food will introduce us to Mrs. Dimova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, honourable Members! On the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly I ask for a procedure for the admission of associate Dr. Janko Ivanov Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, Prof. Pascal Zhelyazkov, Executive Director of the Bulgarian Agency for Food Safety, Silvia Vasileva, Director of the Department of Animal Economy and Emil Krastev Head of the Executive Agency.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u3	Please vote on the procedure so made for admission. Vote 172 MPs: for 167, against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u4	Madam President, honourable Members! I present to your attention. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Animal Health Act, No 002-01-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 January 2020. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held an extraordinary meeting on 21 January 2020, discussing the quoted bill. In the meeting of the Commission took part from the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests: Associate Professor Dr. Janko Ivanov Deputy Minister, Dr. Petya Petkova Director of the Department of Agriculture and Forestry, and Ms. Diana Fileva Executive Director of the Department of Legal Activities and Law of the European Union; from the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency: Prof. Dr. Pascal Zhelyazkov Executive Director, and Mr. Emil Krastev Head of the Department of Legal and Normal Services at the Agency. The bill and the reasons for it were presented by Deputy Minister Ivanov. The bill proposes several major groups of changes. [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u5	Quiet, please, colleagues! It's very noisy in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u6	The texts relating to official controls shall be reviewed in cases where no veterinary measures on prevention, disease eradication measures and follow-up of unregistered establishments or unidentified animals have been applied. An opportunity is created to award the measures to limit and eradicate diseases to a contractor other than the employees of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. Additional obligations shall be laid down for owners and users of establishments related to compliance with animal identification and health requirements; compliance with requirements [[noise]] for their welfare; documenting the movement of...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u7	Stop for a moment, Mrs. Dimova, a little quiet, because it's really loud. Please keep the bilateral talks quiet. They can't hear the coworkers in the back for sure. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u8	the movement from and to establishments; the establishment and implementation of disease control programmes; compliance with certain requirements for the settlement of establishments and the application of emergency measures in the event of the detection of contagious disease at sites. Additional obligations shall also be laid down for mayors and mayors who should take measures to reduce the risk of the occurrence and spread of infectious animal diseases and, in the event of such occurrence, to assist in the implementation of measures to limit and eradicate them. A light, free regime for registration of personal holdings shall be established. The texts relating to the organisation of animal veterinary care carried out by registered veterinarians shall be reviewed. A territorial principle shall be introduced when concluding the contracts for the implementation of the measures under the programme for the prevention, surveillance, control and eradication of animal diseases and of registered veterinarians. Registered veterinarians who have entered into contracts for the prevention, treatment and diagnosis of animal diseases and for the implementation of measures under the programme for the prevention, surveillance, control and eradication of animal diseases, and with owners or owners of farms, shall not be allowed to conclude such contracts with owners or users of personal holdings. The frequency of site visits is envisaged to be defined in a special procedure. The text regulating the order of compensation for the animal owners affected by epizootic risks shall be reviewed, supplementing the grounds for refusing to pay benefits and the way in which they determine the cost of benefits. The order for issuing authorisations for the use of animals in scientific trials shall be completed. A new ground for withdrawal of authorisation has also been added where the use of animals in trials is not carried out in accordance with the authorisation obtained. The assumptions for the deletion of registration and for the nullification of the issued certificate of means of transport for the transport of raw materials and foodstuffs of animal origin, animal by-products and products derived thereof are detailed. An obligation of owners or users of mobile installations for disposal of animal by-products is introduced to inform the authorities of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency of the time and place where they will carry out their activities. The procedures and documentation relating to licensing of the use, production, wholesale and retail of veterinary medicinal products shall be revised. Minimum requirements for the production of active substances entering their composition shall be introduced. Some of the administrative criminal provisions of the Law are supplemented and refined. The Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law make changes to the Law on State Reserves and Wartime Stocks, with which disinfectants, means of deratization and disinsecting, and protective clothing in cases of limitation and eradication of animal diseases and are to become part of the State Reserve in crisis situations. In the subsequent discussion by the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, the envisaged requirements for registration of personal holdings are too high and will be difficult to fulfil. In conclusion, they said they would refrain from supporting the Bill. After the discussion, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 9 votes for the European Commission, without the opposition, and 4 votes for abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill for amendment and supplement to the Law on Veterinary Practice, No 002-01-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 January 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u9	Thank you, dear Mrs. Dimova. The report of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order follows. You're welcome to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u10	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'd like to offer your attention. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Animal Health Act No 002-01-6 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 January 2020. At its regular meeting on 22 January 2020, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Animal Health Act, No 002-01-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 January 2020. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Deputy Minister Prof. Dr. Janko Ivanov and the Ministry of Interior Rositsa Grudeva Director of Legal and Normal Activities. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Ivanov. In his statement, he noted that the proposed amendments to the Veterinary Activity Act were the result of the incompleteness found in the regulation relating to the implementation of this activity. It is also imperative to provide for specific measures and actions to prevent the new exotic and particularly dangerous diseases that can lead to economic losses and have a negative impact on our national security. He underlined that in most part cross-border and exotic animal diseases are also passed on to man. It quotes statistics that out of 1615 people's diseases 865 are of animal origin. This implies enhanced measures and good coordination and interaction between institutions. The bill removes gaps in the legal framework which hinders the activities of the competent authorities, creates the possibility to award measures for the limitation and eradication of diseases and of a contractor other than the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. The obligations of the local authorities shall also be defined in order to establish a disease in order to better coordinate and take measures to limit and eradicate the spread and eradication of diseases in a timely manner. The size of some of the fines and penalty payments provided for in the current law is increased and new administrative criminal provisions are set up in order to cause a disciplinary effect and to respond to the relevant infringement. The staff of the Regional Food Safety Directorates shall, where necessary, request assistance from the authorities of the Ministry of Interior in preventing access to a controlled establishment or in refusing to provide animals. An opinion was also presented by the Ministry of Interior, according to which they support the Bill. People's representatives Manoil Manev and Ivan Ivanov took part in the debates. It was noted that the cooperation of the Ministry of Interior should be carried out in severe cases where there is a danger of disorder of public order. On the basis of the discussion held, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 11 votes in favour and 7 votes in abstention is proposed by the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Veterinary Activity Act, No 002-01-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 January 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u11	Thank you, Mr. Nunev. I now give the floor to Minister Taneva, as there will be commitments later in the Council of Ministers. Here you are, Madam Minister, as an importer to present the Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u12	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to present to you both our daily lives in terms of veterinary activity, prevention and prevention in relation to the disease and our main motives for proposing this bill. The bill amending and supplementing the Act on Veterinary Practice with the objectives presented in the Report of the Commission on Agriculture is mainly due to the experience we had last year - the months of July and August - and we have established very clearly all the weaknesses of the current regulation of public relations in this area. All these changes, in order not to repeat what has been said, should lead to a significant improvement in the prevention of the disease in the range of all categories of animals in Bulgaria, including clear regulation, regulation of personal holdings. This whole bill is part of a single action plan adopted after the end of the episode last year, which includes a change in other regulations. Each should lead to a significant improvement in the system of veterinary care, prevention and control. From this whole plan "Regulation No 44 has already been adopted and promulgated in the Official Journal" and it updated the requirements for personal holdings after the adoption of this law, which we are currently presenting, we are ready with the changes of two other legal acts. All this should lead, again I say, to significant improvement and coordination between the various services during the course of veterinary services, as well as in the cases of epizootics. At this time, if anyone is particularly interested in the topic, at the biggest political agricultural event in Europe, a conference was held in Berlin on African swine fever with representatives of more than 70 countries, including all organisations on animal health. What's the data? The world hasn't dealt with this disease yet. It remains a challenge both to science in the veterinary field and to all countries in the world, a disease that does not know national boundaries, which, in the short term, still has no idea of finding a vaccine. What was reported in Berlin by Monique Elois, the CEO of the OIE, over 25% of the world's domestic pig was destroyed by the disease, 51 countries were affected and a minimum of 10 million domestic pigs were affected by the disease. In Europe, there are 12. The intensity of the outbreaks, unfortunately, still has an upward trend throughout Europe. We, of course, with all the changes that aim to improve the system of veterinary services and disease prevention, hope that this year this trend will be reversed. Across Europe, much more, and in the world since 2016 and 2017 there has been an extremely intense upward trend of spread of the disease. It continues 2019, we are at the beginning of 2020. Bulgaria is implementing several plans regarding prevention of diseases according to biotopes. First, the plan to depopulate the wild boar. I can inform you that by the last hunting weekend the facts are as follows: the deposits are nearly 36 thousand. The number outside the bodies found is about 400. This represents about 45% of our plan, drawn up on the basis of a fee of the wild boar, which is now being challenged by many organisations. In this regard, the hunting season continues on the order for the extension of the season following the amendments to the Law that you have voted on. We have now taken measures with external experts for the system of science and foreign experts on the wild boar. We will make a new up-to-date fee that will start at the end of March, beyond that and with systems that work in Germany. With regard to disease control, Germany uses various drones to monitor population in border areas. We are having conversations with the same systems to apply them here as regards the establishment of a more accurate number of wild boars. With regard to the domestic swine. Anything we should apply, we can apply, apart from the changes in Decree No 44, and with the adoption of this bill, which is currently being proposed in the National Assembly. This will lead to the most important for the prevention of this disease, which will increase and reach new levels of biosecurity in all farms, industrial farms, family farms and personal holdings, which by spring should also be registered in due order, which is to be adopted in this amendment to the Animal Health Act... Extremely relieved order for people, and, of course, free of charge, so this will not burden them. But anyone who wants to raise a domestic pig according to the category of holding is obliged and will have to do so with the relevant safety, which is explicitly listed in Regulation No 44. The relevant obligations are specifically stated in this bill. Our plan, announced in the autumn of last year, goes ahead with the opening of all measures to farmers under the Rural Development Programme, with which each of them, according to the category of farm, can be supported and meet the new biosecurity requirements. The total budget to be allocated under this line of the Rural Development Programme is nearly 70 million. EUR supplier only and only for farmers in the direction of biosecurity. In addition, for your information, I can also inform you that at present, the funds that the Bulgarian State has given in dealing with African swine fever are a little over 69 million. BGN, which is to cover the costs and activities for prevention of outbreaks and compensation of the damaged farms. In practice, two outbreaks were recorded in this year, which are industrial, after which the Centre for Risk Assessment conducted research and investigations on the way in. In addition, both pigs are part of a closed cycle for the cultivation of domestic pigs. The conclusions were categorical. The reports were public, for the primary outbreak as the most likely source of penetration, as the pig complex is located in the area of Palamara, in the forest, in the region with one of the highest intensity of African swine fever, among the wild boar, that it has penetrated from there and there are reduced biosecurity measures. I hope and believe that with the adoption of all changes in the regulations, with the strict implementation of all new obligations, Bulgaria will be able to cope significantly more successfully and reduce the damage from this, as this disease affects absolutely everyone, and in the medium term to move towards the eradication of the disease. For everything new that is happening around the world in terms of finding treatment, we will inform you in a timely manner. I want to assure you that we will take a deep look at all the proposals that are in the direction of the objectives of this amendment. Anything that will help us achieve our goals will, of course, be accepted by us. I wish you a successful job.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u13	Thank you, dear Minister. We are moving on to a debate on the bill. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? You have the floor, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u14	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, thank you for informing us of the current situation regarding African swine fever. However, the Bill concerns a change in the Animal Health Act, which decides a much wider range of public relations and they are not only related to the crisis situation since 2019. We know that the plague in Bulgaria is from August 2018. A number of changes are proposed in almost the entire Law. The unpleasant feeling and impression in the Commission was speed and haste with regard to what is being proposed. On Monday afternoon, the Bill was published on the National Assembly website, on Tuesday we should have looked at it in urgent order, provided that the changes are not one and two, but in a much wider range. This has created problems both in terms of understanding what these changes are made for and why this haste and our preparation of the Bill itself. As far as I know, the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forest has been working on the Bill for at least five or six months. The public discussion shows a number of proposals that have been made, but the majority of them have not been accepted anyway. During the Commission there were no opinions either from the Veterinary Union or from the Association of Municipalities. It was important to have these opinions because these are the affected and interested parties with regard to the changes and implementation of a number of measures proposed in the Bill. Just a few disagreements as to how and how we will control the diseases in the country in the sector of "Life" through registration of personal holdings. In the reasons you say that we have a much easier registration of personal holdings in the country. In my opinion, this is not the case, because the Bill now provides for registration in certain steps. The only difference is that the mayor is an intermediary, i.e. he needs to collect the information, applications and from now on to provide them to the district directorates in order to be able to check and register accordingly. In the case of the most accurate implementation of the time limits laid down in the Personal Farm Registration Bill, this will take at least one month. Furthermore, there is something important that Decree No 44 has changed, which means that the biosecurity measures to be implemented are the same, regardless of whether it is an industrial farm or a private farm, which means that personal holdings will have to make a number of significant investments that they will hardly have the opportunity to make. You say the registration itself is free, but the identification is not free. The identification itself is also a financial resource that personal holdings need to provide in order to be able to implement it. These things may seem at first glance details, but these details may interfere with good intentions. Therefore, for us, the way in which the order for registration of personal holdings is laid down, with the agreement that such registration is necessary, should be quite different, much easier and with the possibility of reacting by veterinarians when crisis situations occur. One fact which, during the discussion in the Commission, had eluded me is related to the conclusion of contracts with veterinarians. There is zoning, we welcome it, it has been our thesis for quite some time that this zoning is important to be done for the scope of the areas in which veterinarians work. But you have adopted a preventive program with a very long name 2019 " 2021." Veterinary doctors have three-year contracts concluded in 2019. In the Transitional and Final Regulations you say that all these contracts will be terminated. Consider that in 2020, while you are organizing the entire process of zoning, distribution and selection of veterinarians, this surveillance programme, which is scheduled for 2020. For 2019 there have been problems with the delivery of vaccines, we may have other organisational and structural changes in 2020. I do not know in another bill so far in such an imperative way to declare the suspension of contracts, to terminate them and to start from scratch in carrying out the activities under supervision. This, in our opinion, will create an extremely large chaos, especially in 2020, which also emerges critically, at least since the beginning of the year, and not only African swine fever will be a problem. "There are other diseases in Bulgaria that require special attention. There is a correction in terms of benefits. The new proposals are related to setting out not at market prices but prices of a producer from the National Statistical Institute. There are intended to be evaluators or the Executive Agency for Selection and Reproduction in livestock farming to make assessments for animals under selection control. You are aware that in statistics, first of all, there are no market prices, it does not work at market prices, second, that for many of the categories of animals there are no prices at all. What are those evaluators gonna do with these grades, even though they're on a list? Personally, it seems to me that it will be quite administratively determined the price, without the right to appeal it in any way. A price reduction is also envisaged without any further clarification on what basis there will be a price reduction when it should then be reduced on the basis of a regulation which we have not yet seen. We are against the increase of sanctions - some sanctions have been increased ten times: from 100 BGN. for personal holdings, if they have not done first, second, up to 1000 BGN. a minimum penalty for them. In general, sanctions are something that in this Parliament constantly appears as an opportunity to resolve a crisis situation. But when everyone's doing their job, when, I suppose, and all those involved in the business sector, including private holdings, have the opportunity to take steps to work in a normal environment, to have the appropriate permits, it seems to me that then they will. But when they are unable to work in this direction, the only motive and the only possibility to do so are sanctions, sanctions and sanctions. In this regard, we believe that the correction in times. Five, six, seven, ten times increase in sanctions will not solve the issue, but will rather raise the question: will personal holdings exist at all? In my view, in the short term, with such an action plan, personal holdings will disappear from the map of the business sector in Bulgaria. And something that also came to my attention after the Commission, which I do not have an answer for, and if there is a chance that someone will answer me, it is the Veterinarian Products Section. The changes at first glance seem uniform, but there are 43 times delegation of powers from the Executive Director to a third party. In this section, delegation of powers is the main task of the Food Agency. By this logic, we can take this section out of the Executive Agency's competence at all if we are to delegate powers. But 43 times, if you make the effort to see what it is about, there must be some explanation, but in the end it clears the responsibility, and you know that there are problems in terms of permits, licenses that need to be realized. We abstained in the Commission, we will abstain in this House with regard to the Bill, but between first and second readings, when providing enough time and opportunity, we will make our proposals, given that when changes are made that affect many and large groups of people, especially private farms, especially industrial farms and farm farms, really must be measured and implemented in practice. Otherwise, with wishes only, we will limit the diseases with these steps, it seems to me that we will not reach a positive result that we all want to achieve in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u15	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. Do you think there's any lines? I can't see. Here you are, Madam Minister, if you'd like to take the floor now. You're right at any time, you know.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u16	Thank you for giving me the floor again, as I will leave for a meeting of the Council of Ministers. I'd like to clarify a few things. I, of course, have not been present in the Committee on Agriculture and Food, but the Bill has been working since August when the intensity and peak of the disease ended. We've pulled all the weaknesses in the system and coordination. We had a clear vision of what changes we should make. He's been up for public consultation for over three months. There are many working meetings held. On the contrary, there is no haste with this bill. We are already in fun as this annual peak of this disease is coming. In this context, I would like to say that all possible meetings with stakeholders have been held. Undoubtedly, some of them do not accept the hypotheses that are proposed, and the texts that give them more obligations are the most normal ones. However, we should know that diseases affect the whole society and finally every taxpayer, as the benefits for everything are paid by the taxes of every citizen. In this order of thought, everyone on this chain of public relations must strictly fulfil all their obligations. I'm going to go to the last point on the fact that there's going to be a reduction. Yes, there will be, because the Bulgarian taxpayer cannot pay compensation to everyone, and the operators themselves have not implemented all possible bio-security measures! And it's the most normal. However, this can happen.. there is a regulation drawn up with clearly written rules if the present amendment of the Law is adopted. We've had a very long debate about private veterinarian practitioners, and I can also be very specific, yes, they will have more obligations and need to have more of them! And these new obligations, which are outside the territorial scope, are obligations that still have to fulfil them! I can talk a lot about where they were on the field, where they were with people's trainings, who knew I wouldn't go into that detail. The point is that in this country anyone who wants to benefit from its goods must also do the work, no matter what programs there are and what they give you money for! They can only be received against labor! No, personal holdings will not be reduced, because I can now tell you what the biosecurity measures are, with only own work being put into place, clearly scheduled, including flyers for the training campaign. Thank you for giving me the floor. I wish for a constructive debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u17	Thank you, dear Minister. Any other statements on the bill? I see the interest is more on the left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! What Minister Taneva said about African plague is a huge problem worldwide. Unfortunately, however, we are somehow always putting out fires. That's what happened last week, remember when we passed the Oil Rose Act here? You remember two years ago when the rose producers went out to protest and the prime minister ordered a law to be signed. We're kind of going after things in this direction. At the same time, in GERB's Management Programme, on page 71, Objective 153 - Continuing the policies of balanced and differentiated agriculture, Measure 612, is written: Since Professor Bachvarova spoke shortly before specifically on the bill itself, we are still at first reading and it is good to see what are the reasons that led to these problems. For two years of the then Minister Porozhanov and Dr. Damian Iliev, the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, we have repeatedly made comments and have signaled about the problems that will lead to the entry of the African plague. Unfortunately, for several months Minister Taneva has really put out fires, but all that has been missed is now no way to catch up. In a moment, I'm going to give some data to be more objective. In the 2017 Agrarian Report, notice, pigs total 616 thousand. No., forecast for 2017 630 thousand. No., female pigs for breeding. 64 thousand. In the agricultural report of 2018, forecasts have already decreased by about 37 thousand. No., or with minus 3.8%. And today they are 593 thousand by 2018, and at the same time we must very clearly and categorically state where the problems started. In one of the changes proposed in the Law on Regionalisation, you remember that in 2011, when the Minister of Agriculture Miroslav Naydenov, of course, was here under the donation of the European Commission, but two extremely working services were joined together. If you open some of the stenograms of the Ministry of Agriculture from the beginning of the 1990s, you will see that there even French statesmen said and gave an example of the Bulgarian veterinary and plant protection services as an example of extremely well organized, even militaryized. You remember that we were a leading agricultural country and as a protected area in the European Union. Perhaps the experience and desire was in 2011 for this union to be good, unfortunately, you see that the results lead to a decrease in the trend of the development of the sectors of both the plant and the plant industry, as well as the data I have read you about the business sector. Next, let's also see in the Prime Minister's motives of the Report what are some of the concerns: The organisation of veterinary care for animals carried out by registered veterinarians should be improved, the introduction of a territorial principle in the conclusion of a contract with registered veterinarians with the implementation of the measures under the Prevention Programme................................................................................................................................ Unfortunately, this thing has disappeared over the years and we cannot fail to get to what is happening now and with the African plague in Bulgaria. It is envisaged that the frequency of visits to sites will be determined by a special procedure, as well as other conditions under which veterinary services will be organised and carried out. And now we get to the point of compensation. To date, compensation for dead, destroyed and forced slaughtered animals must be calculated on the basis of market prices, which makes it very difficult for the authorities of the Bulgarian Food Safety Association to fulfil the obligation to determine the amount of compensation. The National Statistical Institute does not collect data on all farm animals and products seen and produced in Bulgaria, but only on those with a significant share. I do not know whether or not the Prime Minister has misunderstood what he is signing, but there is no way that the sector of swine farming is a sector with a negligible share so that we cannot determine the prices for benefits. We had a meeting with large producers of pig complexes who complained precisely about the low prices with which they were compensated. Next, I would also like to draw attention to the development of the sector..................... since we have to give with the Bill a hope in the sector and the people who decided to deal with pig production, where was Bulgaria before 1989? We had over 4 million pig production, in 1989 they were 4 million. $150,000. In 2009 the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The amount of aid is estimated to be EUR 593 For meat, carcase weight 413 thousand. Ton; 74 thousand Tonnes of 2009; in 2017 It's already 75. Notice, for a pound of meat per person, 1989. 48 kg, we've already reached 10 kg per capita. To satisfy the modest consumer needs, we are now forced to import huge quantities of pork. Since 2011, imports have reached over 111 thousand annually. the tone. Note that Denmark by territory is 2.5 times smaller than Bulgaria, produces 10 million annually. tons of grain as much as we do. By the way, we are bragging that we are exporting grain, I have repeatedly said from this tribune that this grain we are exporting is a primary product with no added value, instead of the grain turning it into meat. Denmark produces milk.. 320 liters, and meat over 100 kg.. 10 times more than in Bulgaria. The Netherlands by territory is three times smaller than Bulgaria, which is also not known as a grain producer, produces more than 3 million annually. tons of meat, of which 49% pork. Note, in Bulgaria, however, the currency balance of livestock farming in 2017. According to the Agrarian reports, it is negative and amounts to 259 million. EUR and the last of the above-mentioned imports of pigmeat of 111 thousand. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty, EUR, or this is more than 80% negative. All these data I export them so that the National Assembly as a political body and you as governors can be scared and what Professor Bachvarova said that between first and second reading our proposals, which we will make, should be in the direction of development and preservation of the sector of swine farming. Recently ironically, a German journalist found that he had visited a Bulgarian meat processing company and there he saw how they produced Bulgarian salami with Bavarian pigs. Dear Members of Parliament, the problems I have quoted here and the African plague must give us that charge so that the development of the sectors of agriculture, in the case of the sector of Life, the pig sector, can find that place in which Bulgaria was located until 1989. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u19	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. - What's the line? I can't see. Are there any other statements on the bill, colleagues? I can't see. I'm closing the debate on the bill. I put to the first vote the bill amending and supplementing the Animal Health Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. They voted 145 MPs: 110 against 1, abstention 34. The bill was passed at first reading. Here you go, Mr. Burgeev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u20	Dear Mr. Vigenin, dear colleagues! I ask for a re-vote procedure because there was a technical problem, and I, and some of my colleagues, have failed to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u21	I'm announcing a bill re-voting. They voted 142 MPs: 108, against 2, abstention 32. The bill was passed at first reading. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE COURT OF JUSTICE. Importer is the Council of Ministers. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova, to report the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I present to your attention a report on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary, No 902-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 September 2019. It was adopted on the first vote on 27 September 2019. Project for a second vote. The Law on the Judiciary was amended and supplemented by the Law on the Judiciary. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u23	I put to the vote the name of the Law supported by the Commission. They voted 119 MPs: 111, against 1, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u24	There is a proposal from MP Hamid Hamid Hamid under art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure The Commission supports in principle the proposal, which is reflected in its systematic place in a new art. 214. Proposal of MP Hamid Hamid Hamid under art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of The Commission supports the proposal, which is reflected in its systematic place in art. 12, para. 1. Proposal of MP Hamid Hamid Hamid under art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9, para. 1 after the word "supplied" shall be added equally and shall be added in accordance with the requirements of art. 360
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u25	I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 1. They voted 109 MPs: 91, none, abstention 18. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u26	The Commission proposes to create a new § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12, para. 1 shall be added at the end by the use of a threat, insulting or obscene words or qualifiers.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u27	I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 2. Vote 112 MPs: for 108, no objection, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u28	Proposal of the MPs Krasimir Tsipov and Emil Dimitrov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 18, para. 1, t. 9 after the word "supplier', the corresponding College to which it is a member shall be added.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u29	I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 3. They voted 108 MPs: 94, none, abstention 14. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u30	Proposal of the MP Anna Alexandrova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: On expiry of the term of office or early termination of the term of office on the basis of art. 130, para. 8, p. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, the elected member of the Supreme Judicial Council, who applied to the College concerned within 14 days of the date of expiry or early termination of the term of office, shall be restored to the post of Judge, Prosecutor or Investigator held before the election, equal to or one degree higher than the post held before the election in the judicial authorities. The time during which the person was a member of the Supreme Judicial Council shall be regarded as an internship under art. 164, para. 1... 7...............................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u31	I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 4. They voted 107 MPs: 88 against 2, abstention 17.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u32	Proposal of the MPs Emil Dimitrov and Hamid Hamid. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 29, para. 2 after the words. 224.A comma is placed and added. 225
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u33	I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 5. They voted 106 MPs: for 103, they won't mind, they abstentioned 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u34	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1, which shall become § 6. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2 which shall become § 7. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 37 the following 1. In para. The second sentence is deleted and the third sentence is amended as follows: Every committee elects from among its members a chairman who is an elected member of the relevant College of the Supreme Judicial Council. 2. In para. 4 and 6 after the word "Chosen" shall be added for a period of one year. 3. In para. The first sentence is deleted and, in the second sentence, the words 4. The creation of para. 9. The Court of Justice of the Supreme Judicial Council of Judges, Prosecutors and Investigators shall take into account the participation in the Committee on the attestations and contests of the relevant College of the Supreme Judicial Council of Judges, Prosecutors and Investigators when preparing an attestation of the judge, prosecutor or investigator concerned.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u35	Statements, coworkers? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put the following texts to the vote: the text of the importer for paragraphs 1 and 2, which shall become paragraphs 6 and 7 respectively, and the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 3, which shall become § 8. 110 MPs voted: 106, none, abstention 4. The proposed texts have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u36	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4, which shall become § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 38 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 t. Four is canceled. 2. A new para is being created. 2 and 3: The panel of the Supreme Judicial Council judges, prosecutors and investigators shall carry out a thorough examination of the complex assessments of the attestations under art. 196 proposed by the relevant auxiliary or permanent attestation committees in the judicial authorities. (3) The committees on the attestations and contests shall propose to the relevant college a draft decision on the conduct of an attestation under art. 196 and adoption of a complex assessment of judge, prosecutor and investigator. 3. Previously on AMC's... 2 " 8" becomes respectively. 4.. 10..... 10............................................................................ The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5 which shall become § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 39 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1 and in it the words "with the exception of those of the Supreme Court of Cassation, the Supreme Administrative Court, the Supreme Prosecutor's Office, the Supreme Administrative Prosecutor's Office and the National Investigation Service are deleted. 2. They're creating an al. 2? 4: The President of the Supreme Court of Cassation, the President of the Supreme Administrative Court, the Prosecutor General and the Director of the National Investigation Service shall not be subject to an attestation under Section IV of Chapter 9. (3) The alternates of the administrative leaders of the Supreme Court of Cassation, the Supreme Administrative Court, the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office, the Supreme Administrative Prosecutor's Office and the National Investigation Service, as well as the judges, prosecutors and investigators therein shall not be subject to an attestation under art. 196, para. 1, t. 3. (4) Judges, prosecutors and investigators, administrative leaders and alternates of administrative leaders over 60 years of age shall not be subject to an attestation under art. 196, para. 1, t. 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6, which shall become § 11, as para. 9 drops out as it is reflected in its systematic place in art. 37, para. 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u37	Statements, coworkers? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 4, which shall become § 9, the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 5, which shall become § 10; the text of the importer for § 6, which shall become § 11, with the Commission's proposal for the removal of para. 9. Vote 107 MPs: for 104, against none, abstention 3. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u38	The Commission does not support the text of the importer for § 7 and proposes to reject it. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8, which shall become § 12. Proposal of MP Hamid Hamid Hamid under art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 53, para. 1 after the number The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9, which shall become § 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u39	Statements, coworkers? I won't. I shall put the following texts to the vote: the Commission's proposal to reject § 7 by importer; the text of the importer for § 8, which shall become § 12; the Commission's proposal to create a new § 13 by text under the Commission Report; and the importer's text for § 9, which shall become § 14. Vote 110 MPs: for 107, none against abstention 3. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u40	The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 10, which becomes § 15, as in para. 1 the word "recruitment' is replaced by "recruitment'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 16, in c. 4 the word (s) when the word (s) is deleted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12, which shall become § 17. Proposal of MP Hamid Hamid Hamid under art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 18: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 65 shall be added at the end, and shall be represented by the administrative director or any other designated person, and sentences shall be created second and third: "In the performance of the duties of the administrative director, orders shall be issued, orders and rules in accordance with the powers laid down in the law. The General Assembly, the plenary of the Supreme Court of Cassation and the plenary of the Supreme Administrative Court shall be the bodies of the court concerned, shall rule only in the cases laid down in law, give opinions, adopt rules and decisions with a clear vote and a majority of more than half of the Judges present.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u41	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the text of the importer for § 10, which shall become § 15, with the proposals for replacement made by the Commission; the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 16, with the editorial amendment proposed by the Commission; the text of the importer for § 12, which shall become § 17, and the proposal of the Commission to create a new § 18 with a text according to the Commission Report. They voted 104 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 3. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u42	Proposal of the National Representative Hristian Mitev under art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 19: "Seriously, I'm In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 68e the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 2: Where the proposed candidates are less than 50 percent of the defined under art. Number 67, new selection is not made until the candidate list is completed. In this case, the jury's term of office shall be extended until the newly elected jurors take the oath. 2. Previously on AMC's... 2 and 3 become respectively. 3 and 4. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13, which shall become § 20: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 81, para. 1 sentence first, the words "two years' shall be replaced by "one year' and the third sentence shall be deleted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 21. Proposal of the National Representative Anna Alexandrova. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov under art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 164 the following amendments are made: 1. In para. 3 the number 2. In para. 6 the number
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u43	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the following texts: firstly, a proposal by the Commission to create a new § 19 with a text according to the Commission Report; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 13, which becomes 20; the text of the importer for § 14, which becomes § 21; and the Commission's proposal to create a new § 22 with a text according to the Commission Report. They voted 102 MPs: 85, none, abstention 17. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u44	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15, which shall become § 23. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 16, which shall become § 24: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 175b The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 5 after the word "books" shall be added, including those acquired by participating in privatisation transactions outside the cases of bonova (mass) privatization. (b) c. 7 the number (c) c. The second sentence is created: "No property use of the institution in which the person is employed shall be declared. (d) shall be established. 8a: Eight o'clock. collateral provided by them either for their benefit or for the benefit of the persons under para. 4 with their consent; (e) c. 9. (aa) in the preceding letter, the words "instructions" and "instructions" shall be deleted; (bb) a sentence is finally created in the letter (c) a sentence second is finally created in point (d) point (c) is repealed; (f) c. The 10th number 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: In the case of a property declaration, the following shall be indicated: 1. when submitting a declaration under art. 175c, para. 1, t. 1... the property under para. 1 at the date of occurrence of the quality, which is the basis for a declaration; 2. when submitting a declaration under art. 175c, para. 1, t. 2 - Change in property under para. 1 occurred in the previous calendar year, i.e. The remaining amount of the debt as of 31 December of the previous calendar year shall be indicated in the stocks; 3. when submitting a declaration under art. 175c, para. 1, t. 3.. the property under para. 1 at the date of loss of quality, which is the basis for a declaration; 4. when submitting a declaration under art. 175c, para. 1, t. 4 - Change in property under para. 1 occurred in a period of one year after the loss of quality, which is the basis for a declaration, i.e. The remaining amount of the debt calculated on a one-year basis after the loss of quality, which is the basis for the write-down, shall be reported in the stocks. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 17, which shall become § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 175c the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1, t. 4 words after the submission of the declaration under point (c) For the purposes of point (a) of the first subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009, the following definitions shall apply: 2. A new para is being created. 3 and 4: The Declaration on the origin of the funds under art. 175a, para. 1, t. 2 shall be submitted in the event of full early repayment of debt and credit and in the case of part-time repayment if the amount of the funds exceeds BGN 10 000. (4) In the event of a change of office, a person who remains a debtor under this law shall not lodge a declaration under para. 1, t. 1 and 3............................................................................................................ 3. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 5. 4. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 6 And in it the words are said. 1.. 3.. are replaced by............................................................................................. 1, 2 and 5 and a sentence 2 shall be created: the list shall be removed from the website at the end of the calendar year concerned. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18 which shall become § 26.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u45	Statements, coworkers? Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u46	Thank you. I will draw attention to an editorial note by para. 3: The Declaration on the origin of the funds under art. 175a, para. 1, t. 2 shall be submitted upon full early repayment of an obligation and a loan.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Credit is a kind of obligation, and I don't know why it's written down. I think there's a tautology here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u47	Thank you, Mr. Popov. [[Noise and lines.]] I'm just waiting a little bit to clarify the text. Mr. Popov, can you make the text clear again?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u48	I'm not proposing.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u49	Okay, thank you. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. I put to the vote the following texts: the text of the importer for § 15, which becomes § 23; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 16, which becomes § 24; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 17, which becomes § 25, and the text of the importer for § 18, which becomes § 26. Vote 108 MPs: for 104, against none, abstention 4. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u50	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 19, which shall become § 27: "The Bible says: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 175g are made the following additions: 1. In para. 1 sentence first is finally added in amount up to BGN 10 000. 2. In para. 2 a new sentence second and third sentence shall be created: The notice shall be sent to the address indicated by the person, including the e-mail address, and if not received by the person. Where the notification cannot be served, the notification shall be made by means of a communication on the Inspectorate's website to the Supreme Judicial Council for a period of not less than 7 days after the expiry of which the notification is deemed to have been served. 3. In para. A sentence 2 shall be created: The list shall be removed from the website at the end of the calendar year concerned. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 20, which shall become § 28: ....... 28........................................... 28 In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 175h is amended as follows: 1. In para. 1 the number ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. 1 the number ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. 1 the number 2. In para. 3 the number 3. Paragraph 5 is amended as follows: A further check shall also be carried out when in an alert meeting the conditions of art. 175l, para. 5 shall contain evidence of a discrepancy between the property status of a judge, prosecutor or investigator and the declaration under art. 175b, para. 1, which exceeds £10,000. In this case, the additional check shall be carried out simultaneously with the verification of the signal under art. 175m " 175o. " The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21 which shall become § 29. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22 which shall become § 30.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u51	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 19, which shall become § 27; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 20, which shall become § 28; and the texts of the importer for paragraphs 21 and 22, which shall become paragraphs 29 and 30 respectively. Vote 109 MPs: for 108, no objection, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u52	Under § 23, there is a proposal of the MPs Emil Dimitrov and Hamid Hamid. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 23, which shall become § 31: ........................ 31...................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 175n are made the following amendments and additions: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council shall carry out the checks under this section within two months of the completion of the preliminary examination. The verification period may be extended once by up to two months by order of the Chief Inspector. 2. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council may request information, written and physical evidence and documents from the sender of the alert, from the person inspected or from other persons who may confirm the alert or provide other information. 3. They're creating an al. 4 and 5. The persons referred to in paragraph 4 shall be the persons referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article and shall be the persons referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 3 are obliged to provide the requested information, evidence and documents, as well as to appear personally in the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council if they are called. Where personal appearance cannot be carried out for respectable reasons, a time limit shall be set. (5) The provision of information, evidence and documents requested by the Inspector to the Supreme Judicial Council in the course of the checks under this Section shall be mandatory for citizens if this does not jeopardise their rights. Proposal of the MPs Krasimir Tsipov and Emil Dimitrov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 32: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 178 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 the words "up to 10 per cent" shall be deleted. 2. In para. 2 the word "Projects" is replaced by "The number of free posts." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 24, which shall become § 33. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 25, which shall become § 34. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 26, which shall become § 35: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 184 para. 4 after the words the case is added to the file, not less than very
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u53	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 23, which shall become § 31; the Commission's proposal to create a new § 32 with a text under the Commission Report; the text of the importer for paragraphs 24 and 25, which shall become paragraphs 33 and 34 respectively; and the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 26, which shall become § 35. Vote 108 MPs: 91, no objection, abstention 17. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u54	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 27, which shall become § 36. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 28, which shall become § 37: ...... 37........................................................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 186a The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 sentence 3 is created: "In an equal result the competition commission ranked the candidate with a higher overall success than its studies for the acquisition of higher legal education in the specialty of law. 2. In para. 2 the figure Proposal of the MPs Krasimir Tsipov and Emil Dimitrov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 38: ....................... 38........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 188, para. 1 sentence second, the words "not less than 80 percent' are deleted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 29 which shall become § 39. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 30, which shall become § 40.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u55	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 27, which shall become § 36; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 28, which shall become § 37; the proposal of the Commission to create a new § 38 with a text under the Commission Report; the text of the importer for paragraphs 29 and 30, which shall become paragraphs 39 and 40 respectively. They voted 105 MPs: for 104, against 1, no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u56	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 31 which shall become § 41, i.e. 1 Finally, the words "the subsequent cancellation of the same in the case of an appeal' shall be replaced by "the subsequent cancellation' in the case of an appeal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 32, which shall become § 42. Under § 33, there is a proposal of the National Representative Christian Mitev under Article 33 In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 33, which shall become § 43: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 196 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1 and in it: (a) point 1 is amended as follows: "1." in advance: for a three-year period of appointment of a judge, prosecutor or investigator, when participating in a contest or in the case of a proposal for an increase in rank; (b) point 3 is amended as follows: "3." On a regular basis, for a five-year period from the indisputability test of a judge, prosecutor and investigator, of an administrative manager and of an alternate of an administrative officer; 2. The creation of para. 2: A report shall be prepared for their work by the mentor of the second year of their appointment. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 34, which shall become § 44: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 197 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinea 2 is canceled. 2. In para. The second sentence is finally added in cases where prior attestations have been carried out. 3. In para. 5, t. 4 after the words................................................................................................ 4. Alinea 7 is canceled.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u57	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 31, which shall become § 41 with the proposal for replacement made by the Commission; the text of the importer for § 32, which shall become § 42; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 33, which shall become § 43, and the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 34 which shall become § 44. Vote 112 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 10. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u58	According to § 35 there is a proposal of the National Representative Christian Mitev under art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 35, which shall become § 45: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 203 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Allinei 1 and 2 are canceled. 2. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: The proposal for an attestation for the acquisition of non-discriminatoryness and periodic attestation shall be made before the Commission on the attestations and contests to the relevant College of the Supreme Judicial Council not earlier than one month before the end of the five-year period. 3. Allinea 5 is canceled. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 36, which becomes § 46 as para. Four out. The Commission proposes to create a new § 47: ss ss s s s s s In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 204, para. 2 the words "young prosecutors" shall be deleted. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 37, which shall become § 48: ............... 48............................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 204a The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 and 2 after the word "Atestation" the helpers are added. 2. Paragraph 5 is amended as follows: In the case of specific needs or the need to improve the professional skills of the appointed judge, prosecutor or investigator, on his own initiative or on a proposal from the auxiliary or permanent attestation committees, or by official means, the Commission for the attestations and contests at the relevant College of the Supreme Judicial Council shall develop and implement, with the participation of the approved individual plans for his professional development, the implementation of which shall be assisted by the National Institute of Justice.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u59	Are there any speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 35, which shall become § 45; the text of the importer for § 36, which shall become § 46 with the proposal to dismiss para. 4 made by the Commission; the Commission's proposal to create a new § 47 with a text under the Commission Report and the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 37, which becomes § 48. Vote 109 MPs: for 104, against none, abstention 5. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u60	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 38, which shall become § 49. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 39, which shall become § 50. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 40, which shall become § 51. The Commission proposes to create a new § 52: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss A new article shall be created. 214: Art. 214. Judges, prosecutors and investigators in the course of or on the occasion of the performance of their official functions shall not be defendants in administrative proceedings unless provided for by law.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u61	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 38, which shall become § 49; the text of the importer for paragraphs 39 and 40, which shall become paragraphs 50 and 51 respectively, and the Commission's proposal to create a new § 52 with a text according to the Commission Report. They voted 121 MPs: 118, none, abstention 3. The proposals have been accepted. Dear colleagues, as you know, from 11.00 am in the building of the National Assembly in the square of Knyaz Aleksandar I. will be the worship of the academician Blagovest Sendov. In this regard, we interrupt the sitting, and we will resume work at 12:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u62	Colleagues, we are continuing with today's agenda. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u63	There is a proposal of the MPs Volen Siderov, Pavel Shopov, Yavor Notev and Stanislav Stanilov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 217 of the bill the following amendments shall be made: (1) In para. 1: Judges, prosecutors and investigators may not form and belong to professional and non-governmental organisations. (2) Alinea 2 is out. (3) The following paragraphs shall become respectively para. 2, 3 and 4. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Valeri Simeonov, Iskren Veselinov and Christian Mitev: A new § is being created... §... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 217 is created a new para. 3: "Resources of the property of the organizations under para. 1 may be only membership, property contributions and donations from their members, as well as funds from European Union programmes and funds, as well as funds from the Financial Mechanism of the European Economic Area and the Norwegian Financial Mechanism. No other financing or provision of property shall be allowed in any form whatsoever. 2. Previously on AMC's... 3, 4 and 5 become respectively. 4, 5 and 6. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u64	Colleagues, you have a say in this. I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. First, I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. They voted 101 MPs: for 6, against 50, abstention 45. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Valeri Simeonov, Iskren Veselinov and Christian Mitev, which the Commission does not support. They voted 94 MPs: 10, against 33, abstention 51. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u65	Proposal of the MPs Emil Dimitrov and Hamid Hamid. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 53: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 225 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 the word "same time" is deleted. 2. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: In subsequent dismissal, the Judge, the Prosecutor, the Investigator, the Member of the Supreme Judicial Council, the Chief Inspector and the Inspector of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council shall receive compensation in the amount of the difference between the amount of compensation received under para. 1 and the amount of compensation fixed at the date of the subsequent exemption. 3. The creation of para. 6: The order and method of calculating the benefits shall be determined by a decision of the Supreme Judicial Council.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u66	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I put to the vote the creation of a new § 53 proposed by the Commission. 110 MPs voted: 110, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u67	Under § 41, there is a proposal of the National Representative Anna Alexandrova under Article 41. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 41, which becomes § 54: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Article 230 is amended as follows: Art. 230. (1) Where a judge, prosecutor or investigator is involved as accused of a deliberate criminal offence of a general nature, the relevant College of the Supreme Judicial Council may remove him from office until the completion of the criminal proceedings. The Chief Prosecutor shall, on a proposal from the monitoring prosecutor, make a reasoned request for suspension, to which he shall apply sufficient data. (2) The relevant College shall give to the judge, prosecutor or investigator a copy of the request under para. 1 no later than 7 days before the meeting at which it will be considered, giving it the opportunity to be heard or to give a written opinion prior to the decision. (3) The College shall rule within 14 days of receipt of the request under para. 1 by a reasoned decision which is subject to appeal under art. 323. (4) The period of suspension of office in the pre-trial phase of criminal proceedings shall not exceed the period laid down in art. 234, para. 8 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Upon expiry, whether or not criminal proceedings have been suspended, the suspended judge, prosecutor or investigator may request reimbursement of the post held. The decision shall be subject to appeal in accordance with art. 323. (5) For the period of temporary dismissal of the judge, prosecutor and investigator, remuneration shall be paid in the amount of the minimum wage. (6) In the event of a change in circumstances prior to the completion of the criminal proceedings, the suspended Judge, Prosecutor or Investigator may request the College of the Supreme Judicial Council concerned to restore him to the post held. The decision shall be subject to appeal in accordance with art. 323. (7) Where, in respect of a judge, prosecutor or investigator, a measure has been ordered for non-reserved detention or house arrest in respect of the alleged criminal offence of general nature, it shall be deemed to be suspended from office from the date of entry into force of the measure. The authority which issued the non-violation measure shall immediately inform the relevant College of the Supreme Judicial Council. (8) In the event of cancellation or amendment of the measure for non-reflection in less than those referred to in para. 7, within three days of the cancellation or amendment, the Prosecutor General, on a proposal from the monitoring prosecutor, may make a reasoned request to continue the suspension if the period under para. 4th sentence first. The request shall be examined by the relevant College of the Supreme Judicial Council under the order of para. Within 14 days of receipt of the request, the Commission shall submit to the European Parliament and to the Council a draft implementing act to the European Parliament and to the Council. If the request of the Prosecutor General is not respected, the Judge, Prosecutor or Investigator shall be reinstated from the date of the decision of the College of the Supreme Judicial Council. (9) In any case, the total period of suspension in the pre-trial phase of criminal proceedings under para. 7 and 8 cannot be longer than that of para. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u68	Statements, coworkers? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the version of § 41, which shall become § 54 of the Commission Report. Vote 114 MPs: for 113, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u69	The Commission proposes to create a new § 55: ........... 55....................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 231, para. 1 and 2 words................................................................................................ 230, para. The following points are inserted The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 42, which shall become § 56. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 43 which shall become § 57. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 44, which shall become § 58. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 45, which shall become § 59. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 46, which shall become § 60. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 47, which shall become § 61.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u70	Statements? I don't see any speeches. Colleagues, I am voting on the creation of a new § 55 and the wording of the importers for paragraphs 42, 43, 44, 45, 46 and 47, which become paragraphs 56, 57, 58, 59, 60 and 61 respectively, supported by the Commission. Vote 112 MPs: for 111, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u71	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 48, which shall become § 62. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 49, which shall become § 63. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 50, which shall become § 64. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 51, which shall become § 65: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 320 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 Finally, the words together with the case file for their immediate submission to the college concerned shall be replaced by the statement for the timing of its examination. 2. In para. 2 the number 3. In para. 6 after the words "Colegy of the Supreme Judicial Council" is added, which imposes disciplinary punishment. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 52, which shall become § 66. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 53, which shall become § 67. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 54, which shall become § 68. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 55, which shall become § 69.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u72	Statements, coworkers? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for paragraphs 48 to 55, including those which become paragraphs 62 to 69, including those supported by the Commission. Vote 113 MPs: for 112, against none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u73	Proposal of the National Representative Anna Alexandrova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 70: ...... 70......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 391, para. 3 t. 3 is amended as follows: "3." organise and carry out the security of judges under conditions and by order determined by a joint instruction of the Minister of Justice and the Prosecutor General, agreed with the plenary of the Supreme Judicial Council; The Commission proposes to establish § 71: seventy-seventy-seventy-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-six. In the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary (prom., SG No. The following amendments shall be made to the transitional and final provisions: 1. In § 216: (a) in para. 1 text before t. 1 is amended as follows: (b) in para. 2 the words "in a three-year period since its entry into force' shall be replaced by "until 31 December 2020'; (c) in para. 3 the words "In a three-year period since the entry into force of this law" shall be replaced by "until 31 December 2020." 2. In § 229, t. 4 the words "three years after the promulgation of the law in the Official Journal" shall be replaced by "from 1 January 2021."
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u74	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the newly created paragraphs 70 and 71 on a proposal from the Commission. They voted 118 MPs: 118, no opposition and no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u75	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 56, which shall become § 72: ................. 72................................................................. (1) Unfinished before the entry into force of this law disciplinary proceedings, competitions, proceedings under Chapter Three shall be completed in accordance with Chapter Nine, Section I. (2) The files distributed to the members of the Commission on the attestations and contests for the preparation of complex assessments from the attestations until the entry into force of this law shall be completed in the current order. The Commission proposes to establish § 73: .............................................................................. The jury whose term of office has expired until the entry into force of this law shall continue to carry out their duties and duties relating to them until the candidates' list for the court concerned is completed by 50 percent of the members of the Tribunal. 67th issue.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u76	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision supported by the Commission; the version of § 56, which shall become § 72 of the Commission Report; and the new § 73 which shall be newly created on a proposal from the Commission. They voted 121 MPs: 116, none, abstention 5. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u77	Paragraph 57. The Commission supports the text of the importer, but proposes that § 57 be rejected, as it is reflected in its systematic position as § 71. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 58, which shall become § 74. Proposal of the National Representative Anna Alexandrova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 75: ................................................................................... In the Law on the Protection of Persons Threatened in connection with Criminal Procedure (prom., SG No. ...), in art. 14, para. 3 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new t. is created. 4. "4." organise and carry out the security of prosecutors and investigators under conditions and in accordance with a joint instruction of the Minister of Justice and the Prosecutor General, agreed with the plenary of the Supreme Judicial Council; 2. Previously on "T." 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 The Commission does not support the wording of the importer for § 59 and proposes to reject it. The Commission proposes to establish § 76: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Paragraph 71 shall enter into force as of 8 August 2019 and shall apply from 8 August 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u78	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote, first, the rejection of § 57; the text of the importer for § 58; and the creation of a new § 75. Vote 119 MPs: 118, against no, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted. I put to the vote the rejection of § 59 and the creation of a new § 76. They voted 115 MPs: 115, no opposition and no abstentions. The proposals have been adopted, and with this, the Bill. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR AUTOMOBILITY TRANSFERS. With the Report of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Mr. Polychronov will introduce us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u79	Madam President, honourable Members! I present to you: ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Transport Act No 002-01-2 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 January 2020. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 15 January 2020, a Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Road Transport Act was discussed, No 002-01-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 January 2020. The meeting was attended by Mr. Angel Popov Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Mr. Boyko Ranovski Executive Director of the Executive Agency of Automobile Administration and representatives of the branch organizations. The bill was presented by Mr. Angel Popov, who said that the proposed amendments to the Road Transport Act provide for a reduction of carriers that do not meet the conditions for establishment, so-called mailboxes, as well as a reduction of the administrative burden of the persons carrying out taxi activity by creating a single public taxi register. Another part of the changes concerns the creation of conditions for limiting the possibilities for carrying out unregulated transports and improving the quality of the control and administrative criminal activity carried out. The subject of the bill is also the regulation of the transports for attraction purposes, as well as the transports of damaged road vehicles, so-called Road Aid. The texts for proof of financial stability in order to reduce the administrative burden for carriers are revised and it is provided that the requirement for lack of public obligations is met when there is no notification under art. 182, para. 2, p. Art. 2 or art. 221, para. 6 of the Tax Insurance Procedure Code. The provisions of the Law relating to the termination of rights arising from the licence for the carriage of passengers or goods are amended and supplemented, specifying that they are terminated when the carrier has committed systemic infringements. In order to stop the practice of infringement carriers, to cease the rights of their own licence on their own initiative and to apply for a new licence to avoid the initiation of administrative proceedings for the application of compulsory administrative measures, the Bill provides that the rights arising from a licence are not to be suspended at the request of the owner until the end of the proceedings for the revocation of the licence by decision of the licensing authority or when the undertaking has initiated an inspection until its completion. Separate texts of the Law provide for the regulation of the deadline for the return of certified copies of the licence or certificates to the licence to carry passengers or goods in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, respectively, of administrative criminal liability for the carrier for failure to comply with the obligations within that time period, where the carrier is subject to a compulsory administrative measure, by withdrawing the certified copies of the Community licence or certificates of authorisation to carry passengers or goods in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. As regards the taxi transport of passengers, changes related to the reduction of the administrative burden have been proposed by unifying the public register, led by the Executive Agency. An annulment of the provision of art. 24b of the Road Transport Act, which provides for the issuance of a regulation on the functional and technical requirements to be met by the fiscal memory of electronic taxi machines intended for registration and control of turnover from passenger car services for passenger taxi transport, its entry into service, registration and control of technical condition. The importers explained that the repeal of the provision was proposed due to the existence of an existing Regulation on the essential requirements and the assessment of the conformity of measuring instruments in which the requirements for taxi appliances were regulated in accordance with Directive 2004/22/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 31 March 2004 on measuring instruments. In view of the requirement to apply the same criteria by the owners of bus stations to the carriers, the Bill provides for the possibility to differentiate the amount of maximum prices for bus services by means of transport schemes. Provisions providing for penalties for non-compliance with the requirements set out in the methodology governing price formation established by the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications are also proposed on the basis of the classification of bus stations. Separate texts of the Bill provide that in carrying out the transport of disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility, no licence is required if the transport is carried out with vehicles of category M1 by municipalities and non-profit legal entities for public use. The provisions providing that the requirement for safety-belt equipment does not apply to motor vehicles of categories M2 and M3, Class A and Class I as well as categories M2 and M3, Class B and Class II with which specialized carriage and carriage of passengers on regular bus lines is carried out when the carriage has a one-way length of the route up to 30 km, with the exception of specialized carriages of children and/or students. The transitional and final provisions of the Bill provide for a change to the Road Traffic Act concerning the regulation of road traffic rules with individual electric vehicles. A legal definition of the electric vehicles and a self-balanced vehicle shall be introduced, the safety requirements for their use shall be laid down, the places where their movement is permitted, as well as the maximum permissible speed of movement and the minimum age for their drivers. Provisions are also laid down to distinguish between the authority conducting the road transport, civil aviation and port operations policy and the body exercising regulatory, coordination and control functions in the area concerned. In the course of the debates on the Bill, the subject of discussion was the legal regulation and the duties of the drivers of individual electric vehicles and control over them. The provisions relating to the subsidisation of bus and coach lines in inland transport and transport in mountain areas were also debated, as well as the compensation for reduced revenue from the application of travel prices provided for in the regulations for certain categories of passengers. During the discussion the MPs spoke: Halil Letifov, Pavel Hristov, Ivan Valkov, Nikolay Tishev, as well as representatives of the branch organizations. Following the debates held on the Draft Law and the opinions expressed, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, with 14 votes..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u80	Thank you, dear Mr. Polychronov. Go ahead, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u81	Thank you, Madam President. If I may, a procedure for admission in the hall of Mr. Angel Popov Deputy Minister of Transport, and Mr. Boyko Ranovski, Director of the Executive Agency of Automobile Administration.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u82	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Please vote on admission in this Chamber. Vote 89 MPs: 85 against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Invite the guests to the hall. Mr. Kanev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u83	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Transport Act No 002-01-2 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 January 2020. The Commission on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting, held on 22 January 2020, examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Transport Act No 002-01-2. The meeting was attended by Angel Popov Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications and representatives of employers' organizations. The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Popov. According to the importer, the main objective of the bill is to increase the effectiveness of the control of carriers and the strict application of the provisions of Regulation 1071/2009 with regard to the conditions for establishing financial stability. The other derived objectives of the proposed bill are as follows: reduction of the number of carriers not eligible for establishment; reduction of the administrative burden of persons engaged in taxi activities; creation of a single public taxi register; limitation of the possibilities for carrying out unregulated transports; strengthening of control; regulation of the transports of the road assistance. New provisions are proposed in the Road Traffic Act for the regulation of road traffic by individual vehicles. By amendments to the Civil Aviation Act and the Law on Maritime Spaces, Inland Waterways and the ports of the Republic of Bulgaria, a distinction is made between the authority that conducts the policy in road transport, civil aviation and port activity and the body that performs regulatory, coordination and control functions in the relevant area. According to the importer, the bill does not provide for additional financial and other means of implementing the new regulation. Following the conclusion of the discussion and a vote with 12 votes for the Council of Ministers, the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Road Transport Act No 002-01-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 January 2020, submitted by the Council of Ministers to the National Assembly on the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u84	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. Please come in for a statement. Mr. Svilensky, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u85	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Our attention is given to the proposed Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Road Transport Act. We have heard the Commission's opinion, and I hope that it will become clear to my fellow Members on what direction the proposals are being made. I can assure you, honourable Members, that what we will adopt today at first reading as a bill will have nothing to do with what we will see at second reading as a bill. Typical parliamentary practice for a long time has already been brought in the law, and the amendments and additions that will occur between first and second reading will have nothing to do with what we are looking at now. For this reason, I will limit myself in the comments on the current text, as this is simply pointless, but there is no way to pass a few things. A few years ago, after the Svoge disaster, you know how quickly the National Assembly was pressured to adopt legislative changes introducing stricter regime in the use of belts in buses. Then the government, in order to show reactivity of events, suggested that even in city buses people should be belted. In several discussions here, we have told you in this Chamber and in the Commission that it will not happen. I think the deadline was 18 months. You answered: "Yes, there is a possibility, there is a technical possibility, the laboratories will do it "there are companies to do it. " Now one of the proposals is to drop this thing for buses that drive standing passengers without seat belts, and that's normal. Should we have waited 18 months, should we have fooled society that we were taking any measures? In the end, the day came when this thing had to be canceled. That's the way it is in most of the bills. The taxi service is a major debate in the Forty-third National Assembly. At the time, our colleagues from the Reformation Block were active on the subject, we were active on the subject and we told you that with the changes you make, you will not regulate taxi transport. There'll be more problems. There will be no more taxes and no more income. Well, it worked. But you're still not solving the problem. The problem is not in the registers, the lists and the countless documents that you make these people prepare, but in the control that you allow one carrier to hand over ten thousand drivers ten thousand cars. Until you remove the handover and this is on behalf of a carrier, we will not solve any problem. Between first and second readings, we will re-enact these changes and I hope that this time we will indeed receive support from the Members of the National Assembly, not from outside the National Assembly, interests which have an interest in this reassignment. The carrier must be a carrier, have the cars and drivers assigned to work as in any profession. There is no other profession in which you can work under someone else's name. In this direction we will make our proposals. Another problem we have also talked about during the budget, I will say it now: subsidising bus transport in hard-to-reach and high-mountain, small and weak settlements. Now what do we suggest? Then we not only increased their money. It is clear that they need to be increased in times so that these people can move. Now we even say that mayors, when they don't have a chance, don't have to pay them, that is, they have to stop the transportation. Does anyone even ask themselves what would happen? There are MPs from such regions, I am not from such a region? Sofia has no problem with urban transport and service, but there are countless MPs who I'm sure put it as a problem. And we have to think about it. What does it mean: if there's a possibility, he'll pay if he doesn't stop the line?! No, the state will get into its responsibilities and provide funding. The problem, honourable Members, is that when we saw the Law, there were some gentlemen from the Ministry, and today these gentlemen are gone Now is another, now is Mr. Popov for example. Then, asking the questions, they kept quiet. Now I was going to ask them again: why were they offering us these changes, and now we're canceling them? Unfortunately, I have no one to ask. And the most paradoxical change is in art. 2, para. 1 and 2. I have my suspicions about why it was made, but it's nice if someone can answer me. Why are you making an offer that contradicts the Administration Act? Why are you letting the minister go? I mean, you're seizing the minister's functions. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 25 of the Law on Administration is written: The Minister is the central sole authority of the executive with special competence and directs the separate ministry. In para. 2: The Minister directs, coordinates and controls the implementation of state policy according to his authority. I repeat: Commands, coordinate and control. You propose: The Minister conducts a state policy in carrying out........................ and the responsibility............................................................................... and the Air Administration................................................................................................................................................ My question is: do you have a mistrust of a minister who, in your opinion, cannot govern, control and execute, or do you have a concern that he might, for example, follow the fate of one minister now?! And now we're legally releasing them?! Does this mean that every specialized law for all ministers here will change it this way?! I mean, the ministers will be watching. They will conduct a state policy, but without having the opportunity to control, govern and implement the laws accordingly. We MPs, who will we control in parliamentary control? I have a question on the topic of Automobile Administration, is Mr. Ranowski going to answer? In the Rules of the National Assembly it is written who the Members of the National Assembly control the Council of Ministers, ministers. Who invented this madness to seize the minister's functions recorded in the Administration Act? It must also be written in the Constitution what the Minister is doing, and you are proposing, not you, but the Council of Ministers. But since I look at when the Law was introduced in early January, it seems to me that the only reason is fear of being arrested by another minister, if, for God's sake, something happens and Mr. Ranovski or Mr. Vassilev is arrested, or the respective directors at a lower level. Dear colleagues, this will not save power, it will not abduct responsibility. Everyone in this country must bear the responsibility of the post he holds, including the ministers when they have one. I understand that this text is convenient for every minister, but I am not sure whether every single director of administration, of the directorate would agree to take responsibility for which there is no resource, no functions, no capacity to guide and influence. Because, again, I say to you, God forbid, there is an accident at the Automobile Administration. We will all turn our eyes on the Director of the Automobile Administration, who will be just as guilty as the Minister for example. But we're gonna stop there so these chairs can [[indicating seats of the Council of Ministers]] Here to be in the light, in white, no more arrested ministers, no more punished ministers. Our proposals, honourable Members, will be made between first and second readings. Again I say to you: do not get too deep in this law, in these texts, as there will be a proposal on every text, and from you, because, Mr Popov, the least you should have done is discuss this law widely with the industry. The Commission has shown that none of their proposals have been taken into account, none of their proposals have been considered, and new meetings are coming up now, new discussions. Why, then, are we wasting parliamentary time adopting a law that I say again, perhaps between first and second readings, will undergo a radical change - both supplemented and new texts?! It is not surprising, in principle, that the legislative process is always such: there is a law being introduced and we expect between first and second reading the real legislative intentions and interests to manifest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u86	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Valkov has made a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u87	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the proposed amendments and additions to the Road Transport Act there are many important changes that are offered to the MPs. I am of a serious opinion to debate on them, not to have political discussions, because the Law is extremely important and the proposed changes are waiting a long time for the industry. I don't know which Commission Mr. Svilensky was on...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u88	Well, it wasn't.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u89	...was it on this committee, but we have opinions of all branch organizations that unapproachably supported the proposals made in this bill, expressed their satisfaction with the proposals made so. I think there will not be so many new proposals between first and second readings to be accepted. However, we must focus, in my opinion, on the main part of the Law, namely the fight against corruption and the grey sector, where conditions are mainly created to prevent companies from registering for public transport or so-called hollow companies. At the same time, it is envisaged that the license issued to companies may not be returned by companies in the course of the proceedings. This is extremely important because a large number of companies have started proceedings to withdraw the licence, return the license and thus avoid forced administrative measures and in general administrative penalties. Reducing the administrative burden is another major problem that is solved with a number of proposals. One of them was referred to the creation of the Single Register, which is under Council of Ministers' Decision No 704. It is set up for the taxi register and will be held in the Executive Agency. There will also be the registers of the respective municipalities. It also reduces the time for issuing licenses in so-called quick orders. The possibility of electronic submission of information in the case of occasional transports and the legal possibility of electronic submission of applications shall be created. All these changes are thoroughly discussed with the industry and were accepted, even some of these proposals were made by the branch organizations. Some transport activities are also regulated, such as the transport of attractions which have not been well regulated in our legislation at present. We also believe that transports for damaged vehicles are regulated in the right direction. It's about road help. The rules for the movement of so-called individual electric vehicles or scooters are also laid down in Transitional and Final forms. You know that in the European legislation of most countries, this issue is not resolved and we are honored that we are trying to introduce legislative measures within a relatively short period of time in this regard. I'm not gonna dwell on that. I would basically like to address a problem which is really serious about a large part of the municipalities in Bulgaria, and this is the problem with the compensation of the transport for certain categories of passengers and subsidies of intra-urban transport, as well as of the transport in the less populated and high-mountain areas. A proposal for less populated areas is being introduced, which I believe of all the groups we will support. The municipalities have been proposed to compensate the carriers in the performance of this public service. This compensation was carried out in one way or another and at the present time, where the funds did not reach, from the municipalities that had such an opportunity, but at the moment it was given a legislative opportunity to do so legally. An important proposal is that all transport schemes offered by municipalities and the conditions for the conclusion of public procurement contracts and competitions should be agreed with the Executive Agency. This is extremely important because there is a great diversity in this direction. I give the following example of why it is necessary. In most of the municipalities there are reports issued by the Ministry of Finance, there is a discrepancy between the number of passengers and the transport in which the transport is carried out. What do I mean? We have ten passengers per day maximum number. Very often these are two, three or five, six passengers in certain directions, and public procurement or competitions are played with a 45-seat bus. You understand that the costs sometimes exceed more than two or three times the necessary means for a smaller mode of transport. From this point of view, the transport itself can be combined. I believe that this proposal is correct, mainly of the Automobile Administration. A representative of the Association of Municipalities attended the discussions of the working group. However, the question we need to ask ourselves is: will these measures be sufficient because a large part of the municipalities do not have such a financial opportunity to compensate for this service?! Perhaps there will really be proposals between first and second readings here, so that we can be sure that there will be public transportation to every single place. This is an important issue on which there is a discussion in our society. To conclude, I am obliged to point out that the transport industry was very active in the work on these amendments and additions to the Law, which was highlighted in both written opinions and in the opinions that were put forward by transport organisations during the debates at first reading of the Law in the Transport Commission. My proposal to the MPs is to support the amendments and additions to the Road Transport Act as submitted by the Council of Ministers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u90	Thank you, dear Mr. Valkov. - What's the line? Here's a line for you, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u91	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Valkov, it is really nice to read the opinions. And on those things you said, there's probably no problem with the Trotinets, about the registers, probably, but have you read the opinion of the National Association of Municipalities? How enthusiastically they pass this law and say: "This is the law that will fix our hard-to-reach regions. " You said yourself that it wasn't enough that municipalities didn't have money. The state doesn't have it, and she's on the run. We proposed to you during the budget: raise two, three times the need! Your mayors want it, not someone else. You don't want to. You propose to coordinate the schedules with the Automobile Administration. But this is what Georgi Svilenski has been offering since he was a member of parliament, Mr. Valkov, in every law of both railway and road transport. In each law, I have proposed that either one or the other schedule be agreed so that three buses to Varna and three trains to Varna do not leave at the same time. And it's not accepted! Now it's okay! All right, well done, congratulations. Let's coordinate. Let's see these schedules so that the one who rides really knows that there will be something to ride, because otherwise the buses of certain companies travel full, the trains empty. The time will come for us to talk about BDZ, too, because this is the next hot potato in the country. Then we'll come back again and we'll have to work it out. Well, all right, let's coordinate both of these schedules. Let's make sure that where there's a need to travel the railways and where the railways can't travel full buses. It is enough to have people in these regions to be able to use them, because the policy that you are leading makes it so that no 45-seat, five-seat vehicles can let go, there will be no one to get into them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u92	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. Second line? I won't. A hole? Here you go, Mr. Valkov, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u93	Dear Mr. Svilenski, in terms of whether the mayors are ours or yours, they are mayors of settlements and they do their best to have access to and to have such transport to each and every settlement. However, the base on which it must stand must be strong. There can't be a population where there are 30 or 40 inhabitants, so the population is small, so we have to start a 45-seat bus. What I meant by the concerts of the transport schemes themselves is not only the coordination with BDZ. It is meant that most of the schedules themselves are made to only one settlement, and they can be combined. When the public procurement is played, then you have to consider this thing. Therefore, due to the information it has in this direction in the Executive Agency, adjustments can be made that are useful and the basis on which to step, i.e. the compensation of this service, become effective and not inflate in certain places and thus drain the state budget. And with regard to the fact that you have spoken that all schedules should be synchronized, this debate has not started with you. It exists from the moment we have different modes of transport. There is no need for general talk, but to do concrete things, and I think we have concrete proposals in this bill that are good to adopt. And where there's a discussion to be made, I'm open to it, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u94	Thank you, dear Mr. Valkov. Statements? Mr. Letifov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, we from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will support the proposed bill for amendment and supplement of the Road Transport Act. Yes, it is in itself quite comprehensive, contains important and serious topics not only for road transport, but also for traffic safety, regulation, administrative activity. We need to remember that this bill actually came in very quickly, again because of some upcoming protests, which, of course, have their reasons. The bill, as colleagues have said, covers some new regulations to administer the activities of so-called attraction transports, we put this obligation as a commitment of municipalities. This is an important and essential activity, which, especially in tourist places, is not regulated. In fact, it may have other than its attraction and its danger, and this activity must be regulated. Many of the problems that the carriers have raised concern. The administrative burden is serious. Just to remind you that we've dealt with this kind of nonsense or a piece of work not once or twice. In this case, we take the licenses, then we return them, and it's not clear the time we return them. But there was another debate going on here. From the looks of Mr. Ranowski, I remember a time ago when we were taking and downloading the registration of the cars for the fact that a license had expired. It took us a long time to realize this madness and change it. In this work a piece is done, however, if between the two readings we don't look at the overall picture of all these proposals for the fight against companies, the mailboxes, as they say, is a major problem. We need to regulate this activity in order to reduce unfair competition or illegal transports that damage the state, the legal business, but in fact pose a threat to the health of Bulgarian citizens. These are really serious topics that we should be dealing with. There is also something else important that we have done, and we are once again regulating a piece of equipment to allow M1 vehicles to carry out specialized transports for people with difficult mobility who have not been made so far. Once again, there was this debate about who should be allowed not to be within the scope of this law, and it seems a bit like this: we will put the belts on, as Mr Svilenski said, necessarily for everyone after one crisis, one tragedy, and then we will start removing them one by one where it is inappropriate. I would very much like between the two readings to really pay attention, because both the problem with taxi carriers and the proposals that will come from them between the two readings they have asked for, in fact, are topics with a huge charge, for which it may be difficult to find application in the legislation, but they will be on the agenda to discuss them. There must be enough time and time and appropriate enough for this to happen. Problems. Yes, on the one hand, we are trying purely administratively to ease the taxi industry by uniformising the register. We don't send them to two different registers, and these two registers don't talk to each other, and we're going to do it now, but the next step is their desire for movement, their mode of action. On the other hand, the fiscalization of these cash registers, which they are also facing as a topic, and so are we. These are all topics that carry a serious charge, and again my request is that we take this extremely seriously. As for the so-called electronic scooters. Yes, indeed, as Mr. Valkov said, this is an attempt to regulate this activity in terms of security of all citizens. That can't be stopped. It's spreading and it's going to spread. An attempt will be made to regulate activity, to control, to monitor origin, power, speed limit, everything. We need to create some rules and a culture of movement, because this will be a test in the next maybe five or ten years, until we learn how to move, use them as bicycles or not, what are the defense mechanisms there, how we actually control this process and how we sanction the violation of traffic rules. But how we will cope will depend on both the health and the life of Bulgarian citizens. Last but not least, the issue of compensation for passenger transport by municipalities is serious. There's a proposal for redistribution. There has been an increase in this money, especially for the low-population and high-mountain regions, as they are classified, but we must bear in mind that 60% and more of the municipalities have a broken transport scheme or have no transport at all. At some point, putting this obligation on the municipalities to subsidise, if they could do it, they probably wouldn't have waited a lot. On the other hand, we need to see how the state will actually make its greater commitment. There is an increase in this subsidy, but we have to say that it is not enough, and it is not enough. From now on, this is the other crisis that we really need to see from the point of view of all the problems that are in the transport sector, how to compensate for one or another transport, how to make it more dynamic and more appropriate, how to engage transport companies or how to have the relevant municipalities that do not have transport, whether it is railway, whether it is car, but we do not respond with this change, it is a piece of paper. Then we don't say, "We commit small municipalities," but we don't say, "We will solve your problem." We give one way to go, we raise the subsidy a little bit, we know it's not enough, but you have a commitment from now on to be financially involved. There is a need for serious debate and analysis, to hear the finding of the National Association of Municipalities not as a whim, but as a concern of the municipalities themselves about their financial stability, if you will. There are not much of these small municipalities, which, on the one hand, are depopulated, on the other hand, we expect them to have their financial resources as a well populated or large municipality. All this needs to be taken into account and we need to see what the commitment of the state is and how much it can be fulfilled. It is not the question whether these proposals will pass between first and second readings, and the question is that we should see the common picture and focus in this sector, because indeed the bill is essential and important and we will support it. But the work that needs to be done after this should not be a piece of paper and a piece of paper, but should be really in debates as appropriate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u96	Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov. - What's the line? I won't. You have the floor, Mr. Polychronov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u97	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! With the proposed Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Transport Act, part of the objectives are: reducing the administrative burden of persons engaged in taxi activities by establishing a single public taxi register; reducing and limiting the operation of unregulated transports; increasing the effectiveness of the control and administrative criminal activity carried out; regulating the transports for an attraction; regulating the transports of damaged road vehicles, so-called road assistance; regulating the rules on road traffic by individual electric vehicles. The Law proposes additional conditions and measures to exercise more effective control over carriers holding a licence to carry passengers or goods in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria or a Community licence to carry out international carriage of passengers or goods and to restrict the fictitious registration of carriers. In the part concerning financial stability, an amendment has been made in order to reduce the administrative burden for carriers, providing that the requirement for lack of public obligations has been met when no notification under art. 182, para. 2, p. Art. 2 or art. 221, para. 6 of the Tax Insurance Procedure Code. It is clarified that there should be no public obligations, but only tax and insurance. An amendment has also been made with regard to the introduction of mandatory safety-belt equipment not to apply to motor vehicles of categories M2 and M3, Class A and Class I as well as categories M2 and M3, Class B and Class II with which specialized carriage and carriage of passengers on regular bus lines is carried out when the carriage with a one-way length of the route is up to 30 km, with the exception of specialized carriages of children and students. In relation to the time limits for issuing or extending a licence for the public transport of a motor vehicle, the amendments are that the period of 1 month is reduced to 15 days after the application has been submitted in the case of a simple order and a period of 7 working days in the case of a quick order. The new bill also introduces a new transport scheme between districts. The aim is to solve problems with small settlements and to sign exceptions for them in the regulation. For bus stations, each carrier is obliged to use the bus station specified in its route schedule for its initial and final stop. In view of the requirement for mandatory application of the same criteria by the owners of bus stations to the carriers, in art. 22, para. 2 of the Bill provides for the possibility to differentiate the amount of maximum prices for bus services by types of transport schemes. Provisions providing for penalties for non-compliance with the requirements laid down in the Methodology governing price formation established by the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications on the basis of the classification of bus stations are also proposed. The current law did not clearly state the words "in the light part of the day, " which refers to the transportation of children and students. The current bill is replaced by the words "range of 6,00 and 21.00." This change is made in connection with the fact that in winter it is rapidly getting dark and schools are forced to break the Law in order to take the children home. The penalties are intended to be reduced due to the non-compliance of the size of some of them with the degree of public danger. However, in this context, the scope of the infringements which are subject to forced administrative measures is extended in order to stop and prevent the infringements committed by persons who do not have the necessary document to carry out the activity, but at the same time for most forced administrative measures, it is envisaged that the measure should be abolished upon termination of the infringement and that there is no fixed period of the forced administrative measures. The measures focus mainly on unregulated transports. Applications under this law, submitted to the Executive Agency of the Automobile Administration, may be submitted in person or via an authorised person, or by post to the headquarters of the Executive Agency of the Automobile Administration of Sofia or to any regional unit of the agency in the district cities and may be signed by qualified electronic signature and submitted electronically under the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Signature. In this way, the possibility of electronic submission of applications shall be introduced. In conclusion, I would like to say that it has worked very much under this law. All this was done in good communication with experts from the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, representatives of all branch organizations related to the transport of passengers, cargo, taxi transport. The proposals came mainly from them. In order to prove this, I also bring the reference to the submitted opinions of the draft law, which are over 100 pages. Here are described and I can only quote some of the industry organisations: Confederation of Bus Carriers, Chamber of Motor Carriers, Union of International Carriers, National Association of Bulgarian Carriers, Association of Bulgarian Enterprises for International Transport and Roads, Electromobile Association, Union "Taxi ", National Union of Carriers, Branch Chamber of Taxi Drivers and Carriers, and many others. Again, over a hundred pages is the reference. All have submitted their proposals, so our parliamentary group will support the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Road Transport Act. As far as the subsidies are concerned, I have the reference. Here it is seen by years from 2017 to this day, the subsidy is really increasing. It is raised from 14,5 million for 2017, 2018 is 17 million, 2019 is now 18.5 million. The forecast for 2021 is 19.5 million. We see the grant goes up every year. If it's enough, we'll decide later. Thank you. PRESENT EMIL CHRISTOV: Thank you, dear Mr. Polychronov. Are there any lines? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Polychronov, I am making a line because the Assembly will be under the impression that all these associations and branch organizations that you defined support the Law. [[Heckling]] Yeah, you said it. All these associations and branch organizations have made proposals and a very small part of them are considered at all and the others are not included at all! And if everything were the same as you said, all these organizations that you have defined and read them all, absolutely all of them, now, are now looking for a meeting again, both with representatives of the Transport Commission and with the parliamentary groups, perhaps to thank us for their proposals being included in the Bill. So that there are over a hundred pages of proposals, it was good for the Ministry to take them into account and translate them into a legislative document. [[Heckling]] And it doesn't have that thing! And that is why I say that between first and second reading the Law will undergo major changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u99	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. I can't see any other lines. For the back, Mr. Polychronov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u100	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! At the meeting in the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, attended by Deputy Minister Angel Popov and Mr. Boyko Ranovski, everyone was invited, I can say almost all branch organizations. I regret that Mr. Svilenski is absent from the Commission, but President Letifov gave the floor to each of the branch organizations to speak. No one was given the floor. Colleagues from the branch organizations confirmed that for the Law in this form the proposals came entirely from the branch organizations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u101	Thank you. We continue with the speeches. Are there any other statements? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. [[Noise and lines.]] I'm sorry, I've asked a few times and I didn't see... [[Heckling]] I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Road Transport Act No 002-01-2 submitted by the Council of Ministers. They voted 123 MPs: 96, against 3, abstention 24. The bill was passed at first reading. You have the floor for a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u102	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I voted against it for an essential reason. We are talking about cross-country transports, transports between the center of the municipality and villages, I want to tell you what the last survey of the road network in rural municipalities showed: 29% of the roads in rural municipalities have broken over 50%; 21% have broken pavement from 30 to 50%, and 25% have an infringement of 30%. Only four municipalities in Bulgaria have five roads between the municipal center and the villages, which are in good condition, and we are talking here about increasing the subsidy of municipalities for these transports. Dear colleagues, soon there will be no companies to attend the competitions to drive the people in the villages, whether they live there 30 or 40 people. That's a question you need to look at. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u103	Thank you, dear Mr. Dinkov. For procedure, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u104	Mr. Chairman, thank you. I am making a procedural proposal to extend the period between the two readings on the basis of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the newly adopted law, a total of three weeks.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u105	Thank you. There's no opposite opinion, okay. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. They voted 118 MPs: 114, against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. The next item on the agenda is: THE LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF AZERBAIJAN PENSION PROCEEDING BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF BULGARIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN, RECORDED ON 6 NOVEMBER 2019 IN BACU. Here you are, Mr. Ademov, to present the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on the first vote of the Draft Law on the ratification of the Pension Insurance Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan, signed on 6 November 2019 in Baku, No 902-02-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 December 2019. The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee at a regular meeting held on 15 January 2020 discussed and discussed the Draft Law on ratification of the Pension Insurance Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan. The bill was presented by the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Zornitsa Rusinova. The presentation of the Bill focused on several more significant moments than it did. On 6 November 2019 a Pension Insurance Agreement between the two governments was signed in Baku by the Ministers of Labour and Social Policy of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Azerbaijan. Its entry into force will create an opportunity for persons with insurance internship in Bulgaria and Azerbaijan to realise their social security rights. Next, the Agreement is based on the principles of equal treatment of persons, the export of pensions, the applicability of only one legislation as regards the obligation to ensure and sum up the periods of insurance. The material scope of the Bulgarian country includes legislation in the field of state social security, which includes pensions for retirement and age, disability pensions due to general illness and hereditary pensions. The personal scope of the Agreement shall include the nationals of the Contracting Parties who are or have been subject to the legislation of one or both Contracting Parties as well as the members of their families entitled by the above-mentioned persons. Exemptions are provided for posted persons (for up to 2 years, with mutual agreement between the two parties, the period may be extended, but by no more than one year), the personnel of transport undertakings engaged in international transport in the territory of the two countries, the crew members of a vessel and other persons. The part concerning the applicable legislation in the Agreement Project as a general rule provides that employees and self-employed persons covered by the Agreement are to be exclusively subject to the legislation of the State in whose territory they are engaged. The reasons also stress that the definition of pension rights under the Agreement provides for mutual respect for periods of insurance completed under the laws of both Parties and of a third country with which the State assessing the right to pension has a social security contract which provides for the aggregation of periods of insurance. If periods of insurance under both laws coincide during acquisition, they shall not be aggregated. Periods acquired before the entry into force of the Agreement will also be respected. When calculating the amount of the pension, account shall be taken of whether the sum of periods of insurance or not was necessary. If there was no need to sum up, the competent institution of the Republic of Bulgaria will determine the amount of the pension in accordance with its own legislation. If summation was necessary to acquire the right, the competent institution of the Republic of Bulgaria will calculate the amount of the pension proportionately based on the Bulgarian periods of insurance. In determining the right to a pension in either Party in relation to work under certain working conditions, similar periods of work in the territory of the other Contracting Party shall not be taken into account as periods of similar work in the territory of the first Party, but shall be added as periods of provision on a common basis. The Agreement will apply to nationals of the two countries who are or have been subject to the legislation of one or both countries and to members of their families who draw rights from those persons. In this regard, according to data from the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Bulgaria, as of January 2018, 29 citizens of Azerbaijan received permissions for permanent/long-term residence in the country and 39 Azerbaijani citizens are entitled to long-term residence in Bulgaria. According to data from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the number of Bulgarian citizens residing as of January 2018 in Azerbaijan is 50 persons, and for the last five years at least 50 others have worked in Azerbaijan. After ratification of the Agreement and its entry into force, the Republic of Bulgaria will pay pensions, the amount of which will be determined only on the basis of the Bulgarian insurance service and insurance income, on which contributions have been made to the Bulgarian state social security. At the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: 19 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He proposed to the National Assembly to support the First Voting Draft for the ratification of the Pension Insurance Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan, signed on 6 November 2019 in Baku, No 902-02-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 December 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u107	Thank you, dear Mr. Ademov. Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. You have the floor, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u108	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Pension Insurance Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan, signed on 6 November 2019 in Baku, No 902-02-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 December 2019. At a regular meeting held on 16 January 2020, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law on ratification of the Pension Insurance Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan, signed on 6 November 2019 in Baku, No 902-02-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 December 2019. The bill was presented by Mr. Lazar Lazarov "Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy." The Agreement shall be based on the principles of equal treatment of persons, the export of pensions, the applicability of only one legislation with regard to the obligation to ensure and sum up the periods of insurance. The material scope of the Bulgarian country includes legislation in the field of state social security, which includes pensions for retirement and age, disability pensions due to general illness and hereditary pensions. The personal scope of the Agreement shall include the nationals of the Contracting Parties who are or have been subject to the laws of one or both Contracting Parties as well as the members of their families entitled by the above-mentioned persons. The definition of pension entitlements under the Agreement provides for mutual respect for periods of insurance completed under the laws of both Parties and of a third country with which the State assessing the right to pension has a social security contract which provides for the aggregation of periods of insurance. If periods of insurance under both laws coincide during acquisition, they shall not be aggregated. Periods acquired before the entry into force of the Agreement will also be respected. The Agreement will enter into force on the day of diplomatic receipt of the last written notification of implementation by both parties of the internal state procedures necessary for its entry into force. Locked for an indefinite period of time. In the event of denounce, the rights of citizens acquired during the period of validity of the Agreement shall be maintained. Since the Agreement leads to financial commitments for Bulgaria, it is subject to ratification under art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. After the discussion, the members of the Budget and Finance Committee expressed their principal support for the proposed bill by concluding its discussion with the following results: with 17 votes...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u109	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. Report of the Committee on Foreign Policy. You have the floor, dear Mr. Toshev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u110	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Pension Insurance Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan, signed on 6 November 2019 in Baku, No 902-02-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 December 2019. At its regular meeting held on 22 January 2020, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Draft Law on the ratification of the Pension Insurance Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan, signed on 6 November 2019 in Baku, No 902-02-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 December 2019. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mr. Lazar Lazarov, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy. The Bill submitted by the Council of Ministers proposes the National Assembly to ratify the Pension Insurance Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan as it leads to financial commitments for our country. The Agreement respects the principle of equal treatment of persons, the export of pensions, the applicability of only one legislation with regard to the obligation to ensure and sum up the periods of insurance. The material scope of the Bulgarian country includes the legislation in the field of state social security.. Insurance and age pensions, disability pensions and inheritance pensions. The personal scope shall include the nationals of the two Parties who are or have been subject to the legislation of one of the two Contracting Parties, as well as the members of their families entitled by those designated persons. As regards applicable law, the Agreement provides that persons employed or self-employed on whom it extends, as a general rule, be subject to the legislation of the country in which they carry out their work. Exemptions are provided for posted persons, personnel of transport undertakings engaged in international transport in the territory of the two countries, crew members of vessels and other persons employed on board the vessel, collaborators of diplomatic missions and those working in consular services of the two countries, as well as private domestic workers employed as personnel with the members of those missions and their equivalents sent by the State authorities to one side of the territory of the other Party. The Agreement shall also respect periods acquired prior to its entry into force. The Agreement has been concluded for an indefinite period and will enter into force on the day of receipt by diplomatic means of the last written notification of the implementation by both parties of the internal procedures necessary for its entry into force. In the event of any termination of rights acquired by citizens on the basis of the Agreement during its operation, the rights acquired by citizens shall be maintained. Following the debates held, the Commission held a vote in which the draft voted 14 Members of Parliament, without the opposition and the abstention. On the basis of the results of the vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy proposed to the National Assembly to adopt, on the basis of the results of the vote, a Draft for ratification of the Pension Insurance Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan, signed on 6 December 2019 in Baku, No 902-02-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 December 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u111	Thank you, dear Mr. Toshev. Here you go, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u112	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am taking a procedure in the manner of conduct and I refer to the three rapporteurs: it is not right to call it Azerbaijan. The correct name of the state is Azerbaijan, and the population of this country is called Azeri, not Azeri. I am simply paying attention to you, as this is a bill on the convergence of relations between the two countries, and it is important that we be correct and pay respect to the name of this country. Azrbijan is also allowed in the conversational style, but the right one is Azerbaijan from Azeri. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u113	Thank you, dear Mr. Mirchev. You have rightly paid attention. Colleagues, speeches? I can't see. I vote on the bill for ratification of the Pension Insurance Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan, signed on 6 November 2019 in Baku. They voted 111 MPs: 111, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Procedure, dear Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am making a procedural proposal on the grounds of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly The bill for ratification of the Pension Insurance Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan to be voted on at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u115	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. 110 MPs voted: 110, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. You have the floor, dear Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Pension Insurance Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan, signed on 6 November 2019 in Baku. A single member. Ratifying the Pension Insurance Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan, signed on 6 November 2019 in Baku.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u117	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I can't see. I put to the vote the name of the Law and the content of a member solely by importer. They voted 111 MPs: 111, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Let's continue with: THE LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE DISCLOSURE BETWEEN BULGARIA AND PAKISTAN ISLEOM REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN FOR THE RESTRUCTURING OF THE DOUBLE TAXATION AND THE PREVENTATION OF THE DISCLOSURE OF THE DAILS. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Mrs. Angelova, please give us the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u118	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Islamic Republic of Pakistan on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of income tax evasion, No 902-02-35, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 December 2019. At a regular meeting held on 16 January 2020, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Islamic Republic of Pakistan on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of income tax evasion, No 902-02-35, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 December 2019. The bill was presented by Mrs. Rositsa Velkova, Deputy Minister of Finance. The Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Islamic Republic of Pakistan on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of income tax evasion, hereinafter referred to as the Agreement, was signed in Islamabad on 21 May 2019. Bilateral economic relations between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Islamic Republic of Pakistan have not been sufficiently developed, therefore action is needed in this regard. At present, there is no effective Agreement between the two States for the avoidance of double taxation, hereinafter referred to as the BCCI. When negotiating the provisions of the Agreement, account was taken of the current concepts in the field of international taxation initiated by the D 20 countries and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, hereinafter referred to as the OECD, with a view to countering the contraction of the corporate tax base and the transfer of profits. Some of the main issues covered by the signed Agreement between the two countries are the following: - in relation to the quality determination of a resident in relation to persons other than natural persons, when both countries treat as their local persons under their domestic laws, it was agreed that the States would resolve the matter by mutual agreement, taking into account a series of criteria. In the absence of such an agreement, the concessions under the Agreement shall not be granted; - a clause regulating the application of the principle of independent market relations in transactions between connected parties and the carrying out of a corresponding adjustment of their profits, which is in line with the OECD BCCI Model, is agreed; - consent has been reached to include the new provision of the OECD Model for the formation of a place of business through a representative with dependent status. The agreed text aims to prevent circumvention of the traditional model concept of setting up a place of business through an dependent representative using different missionary arrangements; - a general clause is included aimed at preventing the unlawful use of tax exemptions under the TDPO. This clause follows the new OECD SUPPLIE Model in its latest version of 2017 and restricts the use of tax exemptions where one country considers that receiving this relief is one of the main objectives of any arrangement or transaction; - it is agreed that profits from air and ground international transport should be taxed only in the Contracting State on which the person operating the means of transport is resident and, in respect of maritime transport, the taxation in the country of origin will be reduced by 50%, in any event the tax rate will not exceed 4%; - Tax rates for income tax at source of dividends (12,5%), interest (10%), copyright and licence remuneration (12,5%) and fees for technical services (10%) are agreed, which reduce the high levels of source tax in Pakistan; - the final provisions of the Agreement settle the equality of treatment of local persons of the other Contracting State, the exchange of information, the mutual agreement procedure in cases of disagreement in the interpretation and application of the Agreement, and the cases where local persons of the Contracting States are subject to taxation which does not comply with the provisions of the Agreement. As regards the exchange of information and the procedure for mutual agreement, the most recent versions of these provisions were agreed in line with the latest changes made to the OECD Model of the OECD BCCI. The Agreement is subject to ratification by the National Assembly by Law on the grounds of art. 85, para. 1, t. 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Following the discussion, the members of the Budget and Finance Committee expressed their principled support for the so- proposed bill, ending its discussion with the following results: The Committee on Budgets and Finance proposes to the National Assembly with 17 votes in favour, without any objection, to support in the first vote the Draft for ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Islamic Republic of Pakistan on the avoidance of double taxation and prevention of income tax evasion, No 902-02-35, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 December 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u119	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. Report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Mrs. Saveklieva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u120	♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Islamic Republic of Pakistan on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of income tax evasion, No 902-02-35, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 December 2019. At its regular meeting on 22 January 2020, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Islamic Republic of Pakistan on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of income tax evasion. The bill was presented by Rositsa Velkova. The Islamic Republic of Pakistan is one of the largest countries in Asia and by population ranks fifth in the world. Pakistan represents a promising partner for cooperation in engineering services, transport, road construction, industry and education. There are opportunities to expand exports to the Pakistani food market. The potential for export is also cosmetic products (pink oil), machine building (food and agricultural machinery), medicines and substances. When negotiating the provisions of the Agreement, the current concepts in the field of international taxation initiated by the G20 countries and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development are taken into account in order to counter the contraction of the corporate tax base and the transfer of profits. The Agreement, signed on 21 May 2019 in Islamabad, is of mutual interest and ensures a balance in the tax powers of the two countries. After the presentation and discussion of the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results: 15 votes for the draft, without the opposition and the abstention. On the basis of the above and on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, at first vote, a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Islamic Republic of Pakistan on the avoidance of double taxation and prevention of income tax evasion, No 902-02-35, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 December 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u121	Thank you, dear Mrs. Saveklieva. Report of the Committee on Foreign Policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u122	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Before I present the Report, I will make a procedural proposal to extend the working time of the plenary until the current item is adopted on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u123	I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 97 MPs: 94 against 2, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Procedure, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u124	Mr. President, I propose that the meeting be extended until the adoption of item six of today's agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u125	I shall put to the vote the procedural decision that has been made. Vote 101 MPs: for 98, no objection, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. We are continuing with the Foreign Policy Committee report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u126	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'll give you a summary. ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Islamic Republic of Pakistan on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of income tax evasion, No 902-02-35, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 December 2019. At its regular meeting held on 22 January 2020, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the so-called bill submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 December 2019. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mrs. Rositsa Velkova, Deputy Minister of Finance. Pakistan is currently the fifth largest country in the world, with 60% of the population up to the age of 30. This makes the economic potential of this country and the opportunities for trade and economic cooperation with it extremely great. Unfortunately, so far the economic relations of the Republic of Bulgaria with Pakistan have not been developed enough. There are opportunities for cooperation in exports of industrial and construction equipment, chemical products, pharmaceutical industry, transport, engineering services, road construction and industry. In order to achieve this, the two countries should support the implementation of bilateral projects. With the entry into force of this Agreement, double taxation opportunities for individuals from both countries will be limited, which is a prerequisite for promoting economic cooperation and the development of bilateral relations in this area. Following the debates held, the Commission held a vote in which: 13 votes in favour, without abstention and abstention. On the basis of the results of the vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy proposed to the National Assembly to adopt, on the basis of the results of the vote, a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Islamic Republic of Pakistan on the avoidance of double taxation and prevention of income tax evasion, No 902-02-35, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 December 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u127	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. You have the floor for speeches, colleagues. I can't see. I put to the vote a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Islamic Republic of Pakistan on the avoidance of double taxation and prevention of income tax evasion, with No 902 02 35, tabled by the Council of Ministers. They voted 104 MPs: for 104, against and abstention there is no. The bill has been passed. Mrs. Angelova, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u128	Dear Mr. Chairman, on the basis of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I ask the National Assembly to decide that the bill should also be subject to a second vote at first reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u129	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 98 MPs: 96 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u130	THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Islamic Republic of Pakistan on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of income tax evasion A single member. He ratified the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Islamic Republic of Pakistan on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of income tax evasion, signed on 21 May 2019 in Islamabad.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-23.u131	Are there any speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the name of the Law and the content of a member solely by importer. Vote 104 MPs: for 103, there is no abstention 1. The motion is accepted. The next item is: PROJECTS OF DECISIONS FOR CHANGES IN STANDING COMMITMENTS. The representatives of the National Assembly are Iskren Veselinov and Valentin Kasabov. I present to you: Project! DECISION to complete the composition and management of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Dean Stoyanov Stanchev as a member and vice-president of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad. Please, voting mode. They voted 105 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 3. The decision's been made. I give you the next one: Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Dean Stoyanov Stanchev as a member of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. I shall put to the vote the draft decision presented to you. Voted 103 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Parliamentary control announcements on Friday 24 January 2020: 1. Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Mariana Nikolova will answer three questions from the MPs Teodora Halacheva; Pavel Shopov; and Georgi Gokov. 2. Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova will answer one question from the MP Dora Yankova. 3. Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will answer a question from the MPs Tasco Ermenkov, Zhelyo Boychev, Violeta Jeleva and Atanas Kostadinov. 4. Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva will answer two questions from the MPs Georgi Gokov; and Violeta Jeleva. 5. Culture Minister Boel Banov will answer a question from the MP Pavel Shopov. 6. The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov will answer a question from the National Representative Dora Yankova. 7. The Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev will answer four questions from the MPs Georgi Mihailov. Two questions; Milko Nedyalkov; and Georgi Gokov and Nona Yotova; and one question from the MP Dora Yankova. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov on eight questions with written answer from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov on two questions with written answer from the MPs Krum Zarkov and Stefan Burgeev; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to a question from the National Representative Georgi Mihailov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on two questions from the MPs Boryana Georgieva; and Smilyana Nieva; and to one question with a written answer from the National Representative Alexander Nenkov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on a question from the National Representative Ivo Hristov. For lack of respectable reasons, Members of the National Assembly shall postpone the responses to: - a question from the MP Vasil Antonov to the Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov; - a question from MP Rumen Gechev to Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Mariana Nikolova. In the absence of the country in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov will not participate. Next regular plenary session on 24 January at 9:00 in accordance with the adopted Work Programme. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
