ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, we're going to have a vote. Anyone who has failed to register will be registered. Message: Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria in implementation of art. 18 of the Law on passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria... [[Noise.]] Quiet, please, colleagues! ...of the Allied and Foreign Armed Forces informs the National Assembly that by his own orders he has authorised: 1. The passage through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria and the landing on the territory of the country of non-military nature of a military transport plane with its crew of the members of the Air Force of Ukraine. The permit shall be valid for passage through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria and landing on the territory of the country from 19 to 27 September 2020, including for a total of three flights by route: Algerian People's Democratic Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Arab Republic of Egypt, the Arab Republic of Egypt, the Republic of Bulgaria, Ukraine. 2. The passage through the airspace and the residence on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of a non-military nature of the aircraft with its crew of the air force of the The authorisation shall be valid for the period from 17 September to 15 November 2020. The orders issued are within the competence of the Minister of Defence, concerning the assessment of the military parameters of the passage with a view to the defence of the country. On issues concerning export control and compliance with international plantation regimes mandatory for the Republic of Bulgaria, permissions to fly through the country's airspace should be granted to the interested party after a positive opinion from the competent public authorities in these areas. The notifications were received on 16 and 17 September 2020. No 003-09-70 and No 003-09-71 and submitted to the Defence Committee. Moving on to the first item of today's agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR THE CHANGE OF THE LAW FOR LEGISLATIONS. Importer Daniela Daritkova on 10 September 2020 The report will introduce us to the President of the Commission Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending the Law on Medical Institutions, No 054-01-89, submitted by Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova on 10 September 2020. At its extraordinary meeting on 16 September 2020, the Committee on Health examined and discussed a bill amending the Law on Medical Institutions, No 054-01-89, submitted by Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova on 10 September 2020. The meeting was attended by Deputy Minister of Health Mrs. Zheny Nacheva and representatives of the word organizations in the field of health. The bill and the reasons for it were presented by Dr. Daniela Daritkova, who informed the MPs that the current legislative initiative is in line with the need to bring the Law on Medical Institutions (HPAs) into line with the Law on Public Enterprises (IMPs) with regard to the requirements for election and appointment of members of the management and control bodies of state and municipal medical institutions, as well as the requirements for early termination of the contract. In accordance with art. 2, para. 1, t. 1 of the Public Enterprises Act, the public undertakings are commercial companies with more than 50 per cent state or municipal capital participation, or in which the State/municipality otherwise exercises dominant influence. In view of this, the medical establishments owned by the State or municipalities are public undertakings and fall within the scope of the Law. Dr. Daritkova clarified that the proposed legal changes will avoid existing contradictions between the two laws and create clarity regarding the legal rules applicable to medical institutions. The Law also proposes amendments to the Law on Public Enterprises. The current provision of art. 20, para. 3 of the Law on Public Enterprises prohibits persons working under a contract of employment or by service from being managers and executive members of the Boards of Directors and of the Boards of Directors. In order to take up such a position, persons must cease their previous employment or employment activities. At the same time, according to art. 15, para. 2 of the Law on the Development of the Academic Chambers in the Republic of Bulgaria, academic position The order of Art. 73 of the Law on Medical Institutions provides for workers in medical institutions who have acquired the quality of a university hospital according to art. 90, para. 4 of the Law on Medical Institutions, to be able to conclude an additional employment contract for carrying out teaching activities at the higher school for a specified period. On the basis of the analysis carried out, it was found that the lack of correspondence between the existing provisions of the Law on Public Enterprises and the Law on Medical Institutions creates a prerequisite for a manager/executor of a state or municipal medical establishment to be deprived of the possibility of exercising teaching activities. Dr. Daritkova noted that a large part of the executive directors of university hospitals teach at the relevant medical universities, which is why if the proposed regulatory changes are not adopted, their ability to participate in the training of students, PhD students and medical students will be limited and placed in discriminatory conditions against other doctors working in employment hospitals. With the proposed addition in art. 22, para. 2 of the Law on Public Enterprises aims to create clarity on the applicable legal rule in respect of the number of members of the Board of Directors of State Hospitals which fall within the category of large public undertakings within the meaning of the Law on Public Enterprises. According to the provisions of the Law in force, the Boards of Directors and the Supervisory Boards of Public Enterprises, which are composed of at least five members, and under the Board of Directors of State Hospital Services Act, consists of three members. It is proposed to maintain the requirement that the Boards of Directors of State Hospital Services consist of three members, whether or not the medical establishment falls within the category of large public undertakings. The aim is to ensure operational flexibility in decision-making and to enable savings from remuneration funds to be made available to the management bodies of the medical institutions. The Deputy Minister of Health Mrs. Zheny Nacheva briefed the members of the Commission with the opinion of the Ministry of Health, expressing support for the proposed bill, as there will thus be a correspondence between the provisions of the Law on Medical Institutions and the Law on Public Enterprises in relation to public and municipal health institutions and medical establishments with public and/or municipal participation in capital which are public undertakings within the meaning of the Law on Public Enterprises. The written opinion of the Ministry of Finance states that the legislative changes envisaged by the Bill are generally timely and justified and should be supported. At the same time, as regards the proposed addition in art. 22, para. 2 of the Law on Public Enterprises notes that all public undertakings falling within the category of large enterprises within the meaning of the Accounting Act, including public hospital hospitals, should be subject to the same requirements and rules laid down in the Law on Public Enterprises, including as regards the number of members of their management and control bodies. Representatives of the word organizations in the field of health expressed unanimous support for the legislative initiative under discussion, with the President of the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union explaining that the written opinion of the organization sets out and argues concrete proposals which, if possible, can be taken into account in the second vote of the Bill. During the discussion the MPs raised specific questions regarding the texts of some of the proposed provisions. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: 11 votes for the medical institutions, without the opposition and 5 votes for the abstention, the Committee on Health has proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending the Law on Medical Institutions, No 054-01-89, submitted by Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova on 10 September 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u3	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. You have the floor to present the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u4	An importer's opinion, if I may, colleagues. The proposed amendments to the Law on Medical Institutions are not significant and do not globally change the picture of the structure of the Bulgarian health system, but are very important. Because, as I have already read in the Report, large hospitals with a state or municipal participation of more than 50% in capital, and also where the state exercises a dominant influence, fall within the section of This law was adopted last year in this form and was an extremely important condition for Bulgaria's accession to the Eurozone waiting room. Therefore, until now I have not allowed myself to make adjustments to it, because the law in force on medical institutions, which is the establishment law on medical institutions and the special law on medical institutions in Bulgaria, does not correspond to the provisions of the Law on Public Enterprises. Most of all, the worry comes from signals from the managers of major hospitals, because of the fact that they are not allowed to work under another employment contract under the current provisions of the Public Enterprises Act and they will not be able to exercise teaching activities. That is why I align the Law on Medical Institutions by allowing the managers and directors of major university hospitals to work in a work relationship, i.e. to be able to conclude a contract with the relevant university and to carry out teaching activities, because otherwise we discriminatoryly restrict the ability for these medical institutions to be managed by directors who have acquired some degree under the Law on the Development of the Academic Board. On the other hand, I think it is irrational for hospitals to increase the board of directors to five, as is the requirement in the Public Enterprises Act, because the current number is three. We need to know that the funds provided to pay for the activities of the board of directors come from carrying out the medical activities of these establishments. This means that in this way, on the one hand, we will save funds that are more necessary for workers in the medical establishment and the funds that cover their activities and, on the other hand, three people ensure greater operational management of these medical facilities. In this direction are the changes I have proposed. I trust that the Members of the National Assembly will support them because the period within which the medical institutions must bring their activities under the Public Finance Act is 8 October and we must enable the special law to guarantee a different status and rights of the medical institutions within the framework of the Public Enterprises Act in the scope of which they are located in due time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u5	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor, Mr. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The BSP Parliamentary Group at the very first reading in the Commission stated that it would not support the submitted bill for several main reasons. In order to conduct the management of medical facilities, you must at least understand what is happening in them. What will happen to this law now? I have a few things I want to tell you. The first thing that will happen is that, in practice, the people of the medical institutions, some of which are strategic and carry out strategic tasks, and so far have had the opportunity to be board members of these medical institutions as a way of management. Because they can't have a work contract in medical institutions, I don't want to go into the details of surgical specialties, where they can no longer be the head of a team and so on, they won't be able to be members of these boards at all, knowing the particulars of the work of the hospital. The second thing I would like to say is that in general this shows once again that the medical institutions in Bulgaria cannot go and be classified as public enterprises. There are many problems in this regard and for the managers of medical institutions. I want to tell you that the directors of the major university hospitals under the management contract they sign are practically deprived of the hospital. Now, in addition to them, we deprive other members of this collective, of this medical establishment, of taking part in its management. Not to mention that in relation to, you see, with the amendment of the Law and its alignment with the adopted Public Enterprises Act, large hospitals must have, there will be three member states everywhere. As an adult, I remember some three member states in my life that will manage these hospitals. All this suggests that the legislative initiative I am telling you from a purely professional point of view is absolutely unreasonable, is not in the interests of health care. I call for a serious discussion in this House, and I think that IMRO colleagues have expressed their opinion as early as during the first reading of the Law in the Commission, and delaying the adoption of this legislative initiative. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u7	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Line, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u8	Dear Professor Mihaylov, if you define the opinion of the BSP parliamentary group, I responsibly claim that you have misled them, I do not know whether because of a misunderstanding or for another reason, in your desire to be a firm opposition. I have tried to explain that medical institutions with state or municipal participation are within the scope of the Public Enterprises Act, and this is from last year. In this sense, it is necessary to bring them into line with the Law on Medical Institutions. What I do is I allow the managers of these medical institutions to be able to perform teaching activities. What I am doing is to give the opportunity not to comply with the rule in the Public Enterprises Act. The boards are from five to nine people, even there are envisaged, but to remain three, as it is now. There is no one in this room who does not know that at the moment medical institutions with state participation in capital are managed by a board consisting of three people, which also includes the CEO. This is what I am doing right now, and I am trying to ease the rules imposed in the Public Enterprises Act, which has been in force for nearly a year and which requires changes to be made in the medical institutions. That is the meaning of the amendment and it is in the interest of the medical institutions. I expect it is from a person like you who has been a teacher and a manager of a medical facility that will understand that in this way I am enabling them not to be discriminatory requirements for the managers of medical institutions, to allow them to teach, to carry out their activities in the fields of medical training, because many of the current directors are truly valuable teachers in the field of health. That's what we're doing, guys. I ask that the parliamentary group, which has been vetted here, both on the left and on the right, reconsider its opinion, because this is in the interests of the medical institutions.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. Is there a second line? I can't see. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear colleague Daritkova, we do not need to explain here what opportunities you provide. This isn't about teaching at all!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u11	How is that not what this is about? Haven't you read the Bill?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u12	No, that's not what this is about. It's not about that! It's about working at the hospital. [[Reply by MP Daniela Daritkova.]] The work in the medical establishment is about specialists who are from this medical establishment and who will thus not be able to participate in the management boards. That's what I'm talking about. The other has long been co-ordinated with whether it was in line with the new law or not, it has always gone away. People who are teachers always have a second teaching contract. That's not what this is about! It is about professional commitments in the medical establishment, as the management contract deprives you of that right. If you don't know this thing, I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u13	You haven't read the Bill, Professor Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u14	I've read it very carefully! One and two and three specialists came to you. You couldn't explain this to anyone. Now you are struggling with a flattering tone, as a person who is almost handy kapè, to explain it to me from the stands. Please don't explain it to me. We understand very well what all the doctors have told us in the Commission. That's why Dr. Popovski, I allow myself to quote it, and other colleagues have sought this explanation from you. They didn't get that explanation. They didn't get it. In my opinion, it is another reason to limit the participation of people from the medical establishment on board. That's the reason. This is a wrong, nonstate solution, and there is no way we can support it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u15	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. We continue with the speeches. There are no other speakers. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the bill amending the Law on Medical Institutions with Important National Representative Daniela Daritkova. Vote 160 MPs: 91, against 3, abstention 66. The offer is accepted. We continue with the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE FULL ORGANIZATIONS OF THE MEDICAL SISTERS, THE ACHES AND THE ASSOCIATED MEDICAL SPECIALISTS, THE EMPLOYERS AND THE EX-FARMACENTS. Importer: People's Representative Daniela Daritkova. You have the floor, Mrs. Daritkova, to brief us on the Health Committee report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u16	Before I proceed to the Report, I would like to make a procedural proposal based on art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 sentence third of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. The time limit for written proposals on the bill for amendment of the Law on Medical Institutions shall be three days.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u17	Thank you. I shall put the proposal to the vote. They voted 153 MPs: for 91, against 37, abstention 25. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Daritkova, present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Word Organizations of Nurses, midwives and Associated Medical Professionals, Dentists and Assistant Pharmacists, No 054-01-90, submitted by Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova on 10 September 2020. At its extraordinary meeting on 16 September 2020, the Committee on Health examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Word Organizations of Nurses, midwives and Associated Medical Professionals, Dentists and Assistant Pharmacists, No 054-01-90, submitted by Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova on 10 September 2020. The meeting was attended by Deputy Minister of Health Mrs. Zheny Nacheva, Director of the National Center for Infectious and Parasitic Diseases Professor Dr. Todor Kantardzhiev and representatives of the word organizations in the field of health. The draft and the reasons for the draft were presented by Dr. Daniela Daritkova, who informed the MPs that the current legislative initiative meets the need to unite the term of the mandate of the National Quality Council of the Bulgarian Association of Dentists (BAS) and the Bulgarian Association of Assistant Pharmacists (BAPF) with the mandate of the other government bodies elected by the congress of the relevant thought organizations. In this way, the convening of extraordinary conventions to select only this body would be avoided, which would greatly hamper the activities of the two associations from an organisational and financial point of view. Due to the uneven distribution of practitioners in the country dentists and the low number of some regional colleges, the current quota principle from one delegate to 10 members creates serious difficulties in the activities of the regional colleges with low numbers. In this context, it is proposed that the General Assembly of the Regional College of the Bulgarian Dental Association be formed on a delegate principle at the norm of representation one delegate to three members. The proposed changes to Annex to art. 23, para. 1 aim to align the offices and regions of the regional colleges of the word organizations of the Bulgarian Association of Health Professionals, the Bulgarian Association of Dentists and the Bulgarian Association of Assistant Pharmacists with the acting Single Classification of Administrative Territorial and Territorial Units, which is supported by the National Statistical Institute, agreed with the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works according to art. 37, para. 1 of the Law on the Administrative and Territorial Device of the Republic of Bulgaria. The provision of § 4 of the Transitional and Final Provisions creates a legal possibility in the event of an exceptional epidemic situation under art. 63 of the Health Act in 2020 or 2021, the board of directors of the relevant word organisation under the Law on word organizations of doctors and dentists, the Law on the word organization of Master Pharmacists and the Law on word organizations of nurses, midwives and associated medical professionals, dentists and assistant pharmacists may decide that the regular meeting of the meeting or congress of the relevant word organization will be held no later than three months after the cancellation of the emergency epidemic situation. This provision is also intended to apply in cases where the regular meeting of the Council or Congress is for the choice of the bodies designated by the relevant law of the word organisation. It is proposed that, in the three-month period, no meeting or congress is convened for the selection of the bodies of the word organisation designated in the relevant law, the meeting or congress of the word organisation should be convened by the Minister of Health within one month of the expiry of the three-month period. In order to ensure the activity of the word organisations, it is envisaged that the authorities at national level and the regional college/regional college will carry out their functions until the selection of new bodies at national level and the regional college/regional college, but not more than four months after the cancellation of the exceptional epidemiological situation. Dr. Daritkova clarified that the legislative initiative under consideration was dictated by the anti-epidemic measures introduced by the Minister of Health to limit the spread of COVID-19 in the country. The Appendix to the Health Act creates a legal opportunity for legal spending of the funds of own income of the National Center for Infectious and Parasitic Diseases (NCIPD). The CIVID-19 epidemic has put the country's national health system to the test. The development of the National Reference Laboratories at the National Centre for Infectious and Parasitic Diseases is increasingly difficult than problems related to insufficient funding and the shortage of qualified staff, especially doctors with specialty. The low pay and lack of capital funds for repair and maintenance of laboratories leads to the reluctance of highly qualified specialists to join the National Centre for Infectious and Parasitic Diseases. The normal amendments to the Law on the word organization of the Master Pharmacists and the Law on word organizations of doctors and dentists aim to align the offices and regions of the district and regional colleges of the word organizations of the Bulgarian Medical Union, the Bulgarian Dental Union and the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union with the acting Single Classification of the administrative territorial and territorial units, which is maintained by the National Statistical Institute, agreed with the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works according to art. 37, para. 1 of the Law on the Administrative and Territorial Device of the Republic of Bulgaria. Deputy Minister of Health Mrs. Zheny Nacheva expressed principle support for the proposed bill, stressing that the proposed addition in art. 24 of the Health Act should be seriously reconsidered as it is contrary to the provisions of the Public Finance Act. It added that it is within the powers of the Minister of Health as the primary authorising officer with a budget to determine the amount of funds to cover the activities of the secondary authorising officers with a budget, according to the expenditure ceilings set by the budget of the Ministry of Health for the relevant year. Every year, following the policy of raising incomes under the budget of the Ministry of Health, funds are provided for raising the remuneration of workers in the national centres. In conclusion, Mrs. Nacheva clarified that the revenue from state fees and services entered the state budget and regardless of their implementation (reexecution or failure) the costs were incurred up to the designated expenditure ceiling of the Ministry of Health. The written opinion of the Ministry of Finance states that the proposed regulatory changes are generally justified and should be supported. At the same time, as regards the amendment provided for by § 5 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Bill to art. 24 of the Health Act, note that the proposed arrangement does not correspond with the rule in art. 17 of the Public Finance Act (public Finance Act) on the non-target nature of the proceeds and with the provision of art. 2 of the same law, which prevents the establishment of a regulation subject to the Public Finance Act, which departs from the principles and rules laid down by it. It is stressed that the targeted nature of budgetary revenue leads to unnecessary fragmentation of public finances, resulting in ineffective management of funds and expenditure. It is noted that the activities of the national centres in the health system and the funds necessary for them are planned, spent and accounted for within the framework of the general budgetary parameters of the budgets of the budgetary organisations concerned in accordance with the principles and rules laid down by the Public Finance Act. This is necessary to enable the relevant activities and measures to be correctly identified, adequately planned and financially secured. Failure to comply with these principles and rules would be a deviation from the policy pursued permanently for fiscal consolidation of the budget and strengthening fiscal discipline, would create uncertainty in the implementation of the respective objectives and generate a risk of duplication of measures and actions financed by State budget funds and/or implementation of activities without achieving maximum efficiency. The opinion states that the proposed change provides for the creation of a new para. 2 in art. 24 of the Health Act, which reproduces the previous version of para. 2 of the same provision, repealed by § 45, t. 2 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Civil Service (prom., SG No. 38 from 2012) , which runs counter to the reform of the model for the formation of the remuneration of the staff in the budgetary sphere, in which the principle of commitment of payment to the performance assessment system has been laid down. The aim of the 2012 changes was to suspend the payment of additional material incentive linked to the implementation of the revenue, maintaining the funds planned for this purpose and ensuring the possibility of better management of staff costs, fair and transparent remuneration, oriented towards the performance achieved by the employees in fulfilling the obligations. It is clarified that the cost of additional remuneration for results achieved in budgetary organisations is foreseen and accounted for under the budgets concerned as part of the indicators of staff costs of the Single Budget Classification. Representatives of the word organizations in the field of health expressed unanimous support for the legislative initiative under discussion, with the President of the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union explaining that the written opinion of the organization sets out and argues concrete proposals which, if possible, can be taken into account in the second vote of the Bill. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out in the following results, the Committee on Health asked the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Word Organizations of Nurses, midwives and Associated Medical Professionals, Dentists and Assistant Pharmacists, No 054-01-90, submitted by Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova on 10 September 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u19	Thank you. I'm opening the debate, colleagues. You have the floor. On behalf of an importer? Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mrs. Jaffer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Doctor Daritkova, I address you as an importer of the proposed texts. Obviously, dialogue is not the strongest side of the ruling coalition. One question arises:..the dialogue is not your strongest country in terms of relations with the opposition, as well as within the coalition, as well as in terms of street demands....... why do you not talk to each other? You propose a text, I refer to § 5, and you propose using the funds of own income of the National Center for Infectious and Parasitic Diseases to redistribute fully justified for the acquisition of fixed tangible assets and the motivation of those working there. The opinion of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Finance is strongly against. Do you guys talk to each other?! Was this text not discussed among the important factors that make a decision in the health system? I don't know anything about finances. I know something about health care. We have all been convinced that the people working in the system are the most important part of this health system, that the so-called reference laboratories are creating with a material base from the 19th century, that there is a shortage of doctors, because the pay is extremely low, demotivating. I am convinced that you have arguments when making this proposal. I have a question for you as an importer of the proposals: will you stand up for this text at the second reading, because we will support it because we believe it is fair? And there are no arguments, including in favour of financial stability of the Public Finance Act, because it is important for people to be motivated and to work. This pandemic is yet to unfold and other challenges are yet to come.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Jaffer. Are there lines? No. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Word Organizations of Nurses, midwives and Associated Medical Professionals, Dentists and Assistant Pharmacists, No 054-01-90, submitted by the National Representative Daniela Daritkova. They voted 134 MPs: 103, against 1, abstention 30. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, we continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions concerning the period from 11 September to 17 September 2020 from: - MPs Svetla Bachvarova, Georgi Stoilov, Daniel Yordanov, Dobrin Danev, Nikolay Boshkilov, Rumen Georgiev, Tsvetan Topchiev and Nikolay Penev to Desislava Taneva Response should be made in the plenary sitting on 25 September 2020. Written answers from: - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Yavor Bojankov; - Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov on a question from the MPs Georgi Svilenski and Rosen Malinov; - Minister of Culture Boel Banov on a question from the National Representative Chavdar Velinov; - Minister of Finance Kiril Ananiev on a question from the National Representative Tsvetan Topchiev; - Minister of Economy Lachezar Borisov on a question from the National Representative Danka Zidarova; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva on a question from the National Representative Danka Zidarova; - Minister of Finance Kiril Ananiev on a question from the National Representative Hristo Prodanov. Procedure? Here you are, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u22	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I ask for a procedure to shorten the deadline for proposals under the bill of amendment and supplement to the Law on Word Organizations of Nurses, midwives and Associated Medical Professionals, Dentists and Assistant Pharmacists on three days.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u23	I shall put the proposal to the vote. Vote 101 MPs: 79 against 17, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. We will continue by asking Mr. Tomislav Donchev the Deputy Prime Minister. He will respond to the question by the MPs Dragomir Stoinev, Anton Kutev and Krum Zarkov regarding the preparation of a national plan with a view to the recovery of resources provided by the European Union to overcome the health and economic consequences of COVID-19 and the reforms underlying it. Mr. Kutev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u24	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, as we know, at the end of July, discussions were held in the European Parliament and within the Commission, resulting in 1.8 trillion euros being the funds provided by the European Commission to overcome the health and economic consequences of the COVID-19 crisis. This is money for the period 2021 A solid part of these funds is also provided for Bulgaria. As I understand from the Prime Minister's statements, it is about the order of BGN 30 billion. However, in order for Bulgaria to receive them, we should draw up a national plan to be presented to the European Commission. The quality and content of this plan largely depends on whether we take this money. Once again, I stress that this is not absolutely money given, it is money that is given under condition, that is, as long as we protect the adequate plan, we could probably get to that money. By the way, I would like to draw attention to the fact that during the negotiations at the end of July, there were several countries that were still able to secure certain advantages in the negotiation process For the Netherlands, I remember that there were some myths from 15 to 25% and so on. There we couldn't as a government do anything, at least I didn't know we did. There's that money left, which I'm saying again, is a condition. In this situation, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the conditions are not only to cover the losses of COVID-19, but, of course, we are talking about economic reforms, that is, they are telling us that it is serious money, but they will only come with certain reforms, including with regard to the security system and the rule of law, which is obviously a public problem at the moment. In this regard, our request is that you inform us of the progress made in the work of preparing the national plan and the reforms that are laid down in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u25	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u26	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Stoinev, Mr. Kutev, Mr. Zarkov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Kutev, as you are right with some of the findings in your question, you are not because the total amount that will be available to the country is nearly 30 billion. Euros. But here we need to do a series of details. As part of this amount, a significant part A large part of it is funds under the common agricultural policy, I mean direct payments, as well as investment measures. These funds have been programmed in recent years. I'm giving you one particular example. The latest version of the operational programmes was sent to the European Commission in March this year. Yes, of course, given the change in the situation of a pandemic, an economic crisis, all summer it was necessary to rework them. It's a fact. On October 20th, a much more mature version will be sent. According to the European Commission's assessment, we are from the countries where, in terms of programming the period 2021, 2027 we are moving strongly in the first Echelon countries in the European Union. The technology here is a little complicated because we have a whole set of new tools. An instrument is the so-called Fair Transition Fund, which must finance decarbonisation policies, which is worth nearly 1.2 billion. Euros. It is divided into two parts with different periods of spending of money. What you are commenting on is the notorious recovery and sustainability tool, which is worth a little more than 6.2 billion. Euros. Here you are right, here the progress of each of the countries will be described in the form of a plan to be presented to the European Commission. I specify that the deadline for submitting such a plan is 30 April next year. Another clarification about the Fair Transition Fund, access to funding to this fund, which is a separate instrument, must finance decarbonisation policies, is in one year, that is, the autumn of next year. Here I specify, the commitments are as much of the Member State in our particular case as the European Commission, because with regard to the three pilot areas, understand Pernik, Kyustendil and Stara Zagora, the European Commission is currently choosing consultants. The procedure has been conducted, we expect the teams to be selected within the month, and the European Commission itself is expected to assign regional plans for a fair transition. We return to the heart of the question: what do we do with the recovery and sustainability tool, where you are right, access to funding is conditional and it depends on the quality to make proposals from the Member State itself. The painting is even more complicated. Following the political messages, the national plan must meet several requirements which can, to a certain extent, be classified even as mutually exclusive. This must be a plan that will first increase the capacity of public systems to respond to shocks and risks. Here, first of all, we will mention healthcare, but there is no way to stay only to health care, these are also security systems, and the education system, for example. Secondly, this must be a plan to help Member States' economies and societies recover their economies, to provide social protection to the most vulnerable public groups. At the same time, this must be an economic development plan, not only for recovery but also for economic development. Thanks to this plan, the whole economy of the European Union must become stronger, bolder, faster, more ambitious and able to compete with our global partners and competitors. All this must be combined with reforms. Following the European Commission's units, which will be responsible for approving this plan, this is where the pursuit of reforms will be a major guiding objective. This plan is being worked out before we have a deal. Yes, the formal working group called on 21 July this year, which is parallel to the deal at European Union level, is at deputy ministers level, but the work started as early as May this year after the first political announcements that such an instrument would have. The mode of operation is currently the following: there is a developed conceptual framework that is given to all departments. All ministries have the right and obligation to develop a package of projects currently in an internal competition regime. They should, of course, not only be good ideas on a sectoral level, they should in the most appropriate way be assembled into the common structure. There is currently a contraction of the framework of project proposals. Because if access to finance is worth a little more than 12 billion. BGN, the 60 projects we have collected so far are worth more than 20 billion. lv. and must be selected, selected the highest quality of them, with the highest added value. I suspect that part of the nuance of your question is: with what degree of publicity will this issue be distinguished? With the highest possible. With an agreement, it is not a good approach to bring together the honourable MPs, social partners, experts or citizens and to say to them, "What do you propose?" We should, firstly, be able to put something on the table as a document with some decent degree of maturity. And that's what's gonna happen. We had a series of meetings, including with social partners, where we discussed exactly the conceptual framework of the project. I think that within October, we will be able to discuss with all those who are interested, including in the format of a specialized committee of the National Assembly, including you. What comes up now as a conceptual framework and a package of political goals? Personally, my ambition was to try to keep the package of policies that we invest relatively narrow. Why? This money must be invested, I don't even say spending, in areas that will really have an effect, given the main ambitions at European level, recovery, development and reforms. They should not be scattered in all possible sectors because they will sink like water into sand without producing an effect. Naturally, we need to ensure that we have a complete matching between our ambitions and our ambitions at European level so that our plan can be approved without objections. What is coming out at the moment, we cannot escape decarbonisation policies. We need to talk about energy reforms, we need to talk about new energy sources. Especially for Bulgaria, we cannot escape from the theme of energy efficiency, only in all its dimensions. Everyone! Energy efficiency with regard to private buildings, energy efficiency with regard to public buildings and a topic which, over the years back, has been more far away from energy efficiency in the industry. The Bulgarian industry remains one of the most energy intensive in Europe and here the state should be able to stimulate, offer help to all entrepreneurs. All these measures must and will occur in the form of a mix between grant financing and a financial instrument, i.e. with a grant and credit component, insofar as energy efficiency measures have a business logic and lead to an increase in management efficiency, whether a household, given to a machine, given to a factory. The proposal is by the Council of Ministers and is now on the attention of the National Assembly, a specialized law to stimulate such investments. Digitalization of public private sector. If the topic of digitalisation in the public sector is old, in the private sector it is relatively new, which means fast and widely available schemes to help all enterprises that have expressed interest in order to be able to implement advanced software solutions that increase the competitiveness of work and production in the enterprises in question. Investments in the health system that will increase capacity and respond to future crises, mainly of a pandemic but not only of a pandemic nature, to help the education system, which is able not only to modernise, but also to continue to educate and educate children even in a crisis situation. Innovations across the entire possible spectrum of the topic from fundamental science, through applied science to innovations directly essential for the competitiveness of the economy and industry, including the creation of a special fund that is accessible to Bulgarian scientists, developers, indicative value of about half a billion, in order to be able to finance, the Bulgarian state to finance all cutting-edge developments that are promising, whether we are talking about value for science or value in terms of the economy. I am in a hurry to clarify that if the official deadline is 30 April next year, the use of the funds could also happen rather if the state presented the plan and it was approved earlier. In this sense, we must be more ambitious, we must not wait for the deadline. In my opinion, after the whole cycle of consultations in the autumn and winter of this year, we should follow the more ambitious goal of presenting the plan to the European Commission at the end of this year or the beginning of next year. Of course, if it's...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u27	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u28	...consulted with all interested parties. I'm available for supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u29	Who will ask the supplementary questions? Mr. Zarkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u30	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister! It is natural, and this is no surprise to which European policy follows, that European countries and the European Union see in every crisis and opportunity. And when they come together after very difficult negotiations countries to give the unheard trillion and something, they don't do it to get things back the way they were before, but to be able to use this resource to make a leap forward in time according to several criteria. You are aware of this well, you have said it before, you say it today, and it should be said constantly, as people have the impression that there is, you see, some money that will now be given to Bulgaria. That's not true at all. It will take a very serious effort to prove that we deserve this support. And in that order of thought you well explained the technology, the progress of programming. We support your ambition to make this happen quickly, we support your ambition to make this a broad discussion when ready with materials. What worries us, however, is that as if you do not give sufficient degree to a more general context and, unfortunately, Bulgaria's disastrous, sad experience with issues such as Schengen shows that everything is not technology and everything is not compliance with formal criteria when such decisions are made. There are two major elements that we believe the European Union will look at in these national plans, including reform. One is, naturally, the transition to a new decarbonised and much more environmentally friendly economy, to digitalization, but the second one that is gaining speed, especially in the last days and weeks and has a direct attitude towards Bulgaria, is that of the rule of law. In this sense, we are concerned that what is happening in the country, its response abroad, the loss of confidence in the government that you represent, can provide honesty in the spending of European funds, can be a problem, including in the absorption of these money, which should help to reshape our economy and overcome the consequences of the severe crisis with the coronavirus. That is why my supplementary question is the one who asked my colleague Kutev, but as if he has not yet found an answer: what exactly reforms do you foresee in this national plan, and I also allow myself to add in the context of the need to improve the state of rule of law?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u31	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. You have the floor, Mr. Donchev, to answer the questions asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u32	I will try to be as specific as possible, especially on the topic "Reforms." It, unlike, for example, the first programming period in which Bulgaria had the opportunity to participate, to implement, to invest, is not abstract at all. I remind you that even this programming period 2014-2020 had the so-called preconditions to be met by each Member State if it wanted access to funding. A long tabular application affecting each area of investment, each. And Bulgaria has access to funding because all agreed reforms have been implemented in each of the spheres. There have also, of course, been major reforms in the sector of public procurement, which, if they had not been implemented in advance, were not able to benefit from all the funding. Here the approach will be the same, even more severe. We will need proof that in the area in question, except that we have directed in the most correct way the funds, apart from all the evidence that they will produce the maximum effect, the European Commission will want in advance the agreed reforms to be implemented at the level of legislation, whether, in the form of a planary and strategic document, which, before funding is ensured, must be a fact. It's a long list, not one, two, three... In all likelihood, if we are currently talking about 60 major competitive projects, the list includes dozens. There's no escape from education here, there's no escape from health care. Be assured that, apart from allowing us the opportunity to invest not tens but hundreds of millions in these public systems, the precondition here will be reforms in these sectors. This includes the entire public sector, including the "Justice" sector. Specific reforms on the subject have not yet been negotiated. I just want to clarify that we have started working since May means that we are more ambitious, we want to be faster. The Contact Unit itself at European Commission level was formed in mid-August. As regards the development of the plan, there are still no indications. Still no directions, we're working in advance. And the theme "Trueness of the Law" is not new. This topic is also fully applicable to the funds to be spent in this programming period. And our position has always been that the rule of law, yes, it must be a precondition for the possibility of spending money. That a country where transparency, an impartial judicial system cannot be guaranteed should not receive funds for obvious reasons. Firstly, that this is contrary to European values, and, secondly, if we do not have an impartial judiciary, how do we ensure that money is spent in the right way? Here, of course, there is one important detail to specify. If my support for the rule of law as a pre-locking condition has always been 100%, I have an objection to technology. Colleagues in all European institutions - Commission, Council, Parliament - in long discussions in the years back have never been able to develop a system of clear and objective criteria. A system of clear and objective criteria, as we have been taught to work with every precondition! There is a document, the document corresponds to these requirements........................................................................................................ The concern, not only ours, but also other Member States, is that, if the subject is the subject of subjective judgment, it could become the victim of political intrigue. However, in my opinion, efforts, including at European level, to develop clear criteria, objective, verifiable, what the rule of law means, must continue. On this subject, both at national level and at European level, we must be uncompromising. As for the situation in Bulgaria. You yourself just said that every crisis should be sought or treated as an opportunity. This also applies to this social-political crisis. This energy, which is among a large part of the Bulgarian society, which is sometimes in the squares, will be wasted if it does not lead to changes. And our joint task is to do it the best way. There is hardly an obvious answer to what needs to be changed in the legislative framework even in the Constitution in order for the state to be able to perform one of its main functions: to render justice. Deficit, anger comes from that a large part of the Bulgarian citizens have doubts whether the state is able to render justice, with this conversation having two dimensions: whether it is able and if it has a feeling. Because a sense of justice is one of the ties between citizens and the state. If there is no sense of justice, the citizen sees no sense in the state. If an elderly woman in the village has been stolen from her hen and no one has found the thief, in her eyes, what benefit is our complex institutional order of laws and law enforcement? And I think this should be part of the main tasks not only of the Council of Ministers but of this and of the next National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u33	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Stoinev, you have the floor to express your attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Ministers! Mr. Donchev, we cannot help but be worried by the opposition about preparing the country for the absorption of European funds, because if until a few months ago you were saying that this famous plan, in which we should present concrete reforms, will be ready in autumn, today you just said it would be ready at the end of the year and at the beginning of next year. Moreover, for this document our personal opinion is that it should also be discussed in the Bulgarian Parliament. But so far, in the negotiations, despite the prime minister's praises, we believe that there is some lag behind, for example, the Fair Transition Fund. As of June, we all expected the funds on it to exceed two billion euros, while you de facto negotiated a billion and 200! Eight hundred million euros gross bills, if we can, of course, absorb all these funds, are in minus the country, in minus the coal regions. Also, our preparation for other instruments such as react u, ladies and gentlemen, this instrument is up to 2022. So far we are still guessing what can happen. All our other actions that concern both our plans and recovery and the means concerning the instrument for recovery and sustainability must be these instruments by 2024. However, we still do not know exactly what will happen and when these plans will be prepared. Of course, we also have the bitter experience of some operational programs such as Education and Science, where centres of excellence were created that were not even created because they were a complete failure. In other words, how can we be convinced that you have what you need, that you have a desire, that you do not want to, but that you have the competence to really build these plans, which must be approved by the European Commission from next April? However, you, in order to make reforms, because these recovery plans are based on reforms, must have support from the Bulgarian society! Do you have this support from the Bulgarian society? No! Have you sought consensus on this Recovery and Sustainability Plan? No! It is for this reason that, a few months ago, I adopted an initiative within the parliamentary dimension that these national plans for recovery and sustainability should be supported and voted by the Bulgarian Parliament before being presented to the European Commission. And, of course, I received the support from Mr. Gunter Krichbaum, President of the Committee on European Affairs in the German Bundestag, from Mr. Guido Wolf, Chairman of the Committee on European Affairs from the German Bundesrat, from Mr. Kirkilas and other colleagues who say: "Ama, wait, isn't it normal in Bulgaria when it comes to such an important instrument, the government to agree with the national parliament?" I said to them, "No! In Bulgaria, we cannot even see the Prime Minister's eyes, let alone seek consensus on such an important and key role. Graduating, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you simply do not have the trust of the Bulgarian citizens in order to implement these reforms, for which you have hardly done anything for 10 years, and as the recommendations of the European semester say, our country is receiving a satisfactory /3/ Not to mention what's happening in the justice system. That is, when you do not have public confidence, when you are not seeking consensus, when you are not doing reforms, you cannot convince our European partners that you are truly able to be part of these efforts that are for the overall transformation of the European Union. It would really be best if we went to early elections, resigned, so that in a next parliament... who has confidence... [[(Shouts from GERB:]] [[(Shouts from GERB:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u36	...to the Bulgarian citizens to draw up precisely this national reform plan. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. Stoinev. You've consumed twice as much time. Try to be an accurate, precise speaker.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u38	May I?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u39	No!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u40	A little while ago... [[The speaker keeps talking on off microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u41	Mr. Stoynev, please! [[Replys from MP Dragomir Stoynev on turned off microphones.]] Mr. Stoynev! Well, I'm here now!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u42	And you, when you weren't here and you don't know what we're talking about, don't interfere!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u43	Well, what can I do?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u44	Procedure in the manner of conduct! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u45	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u46	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My procedure in the manner of conduct is also related to what the Deputy Prime Minister just said with the problems in the rule of law and to what extent Bulgarian citizens, respectively and our Western partners, appreciate the progress of development with them. I appeal to you to execute the Decision.. to make a decision of the National Assembly of 23 July 2020, that is, two months ago, with which, at the request of the BSP, the entire National Assembly invited the Prosecutor General to a hearing with a report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u47	What does it have to do with the way we're leading up to now?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u48	I'm telling you right now!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u49	At this meeting!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u50	As President of the National Assembly, you must request...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u51	I am not the President of the National Assembly. [[Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria "Currently"]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u52	... You're the chairman right now. And don't interrupt me, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u53	I'll shut you down if you keep talking!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u54	By excluding me...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u55	It's a warning that I'll stop you!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u56	You have no reason to stop me, because you are the chairman...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u57	What's your procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u58	Well, you won't let me say it!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u59	What's your procedure??
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u60	I'm talking, you won't let me say it!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u61	I'm listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u62	Look, any vulgarity on the part of the President of the National Assembly is unacceptable! If you listen to me, you'll understand. Listen to me and you'll understand! A cultural dialogue can also be held as long as we have two cultural sides! So, my request to you as President of the National Assembly is to invite the Chief Prosecutor next week to execute the National Assembly's decision and to submit a report... [[The speaker keeps talking on off microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u63	Now, if you would please release the stands! [[Relations from the National Representative Anton Kutev.]] Because it has nothing to do with the way we're holding today's meeting. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria and GERB.]] There's no connection in today's session! Please release the stands! [[GERB lines.]] Please release the stands! [[Relations from the National Representative Anton Kutev.]] Wherever you want to do it! You haven't stopped doing it, by the way! [[(Reply from the National Representative Anton Kutev: This is my job!]] Question of the National Representative Valentina Alexandrova Naydenova to the Minister of Finance Mr. Kiril Ananiev. [[National Representative Krasimir Velchev wants the floor.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u64	Do you have a declaration?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u65	Declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u66	Excuse me, come in. In fact, you have the floor for speaking outside the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u67	That's right. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! On behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB, I would like to congratulate all our compatriots of Jewish origin with the arrival of the New 5781 on the Jewish calendar and the festival Rosh Ashana. As of tomorrow, September 19, the ten most important days of the year begin for the Jewish people the days of repentance that continue until the sacred Yom Kippur Day of Atonement. When we look back, we see that the wisdom and courage that society has shown us in time are repaying us today and giving us more self-esteem as a nation. We are zealously guarding our centuries-old wealth and historical heritage, and social, cultural and religious differences are an integral part of it. This is another strong confirmation of the tolerance and determination to be on the side of life and the protection of human rights. This significant part of our historical memory, apart from being a cause for pride, is also a strong motive not to betray our faith, to be decisive and irreconcilable to xenophobia, religious, ethnic differences and prejudice. The past year has turned out to be very complicated and unpredictable, it's become a test for all of us. The hardest part fell on those who took responsibility for the country and for the preservation and preservation of our society. But as it is said, when we deal with the difficulties and trials that God sends us, we become stronger, more forward-looking, better and wiser. And today we pray that this long period of trials will end in the following year, and God will give you and all of us what we need most for a better and more peaceful life, for spiritual renewal and for prosperity! May this New Year be recorded in the Book of Life as peaceful, healthy and gracious! Shana Tóva, Jewish brothers! And may God protect Bulgaria! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u68	Thank you. We move on to a group of questions to the Minister of Finance Mr. Kiril Ananiev. The first question is from the National Representative Valentina Alexandrova Naydenova on receipt of timely information about the accrued, payable, paid, transferred, amounts, outstanding liabilities and remainder of the individual account of the taxable persons, including for past years. Mrs. Naydenova, come in to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u69	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Ananiev, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Recently, we have seen an extension of the possibility of public and municipal public obligations being paid without cost, through a bank, a licensed postal operator or via the Internet. Although the National Revenue Agency allows, on the basis of art. 87, para. 9 of the APC, through the ARC on the website of the NRA, the taxable person shall receive information on the amounts due by him for insurance and tax, including the local taxes and fees due, as well as the taxpayer still has no access to the full and complete information relating to the amounts accrued, paid, repaid and outstanding, including for past years, as well as the amounts received in the accounts of the tax administration concerned. Annually, on the basis of the Local Taxes and Fees Act, the municipal administration shall notify the taxable persons of the taxes and charges they owe for the period concerned, total and per type of service, without, however, notifying the taxable person of taxes and charges due for past years, amounts paid but not bound by the obligations, as well as a balance available which may be used for future payments. This legal void creates huge difficulties for citizens who are sometimes forced to pay twice for the same tax obligation, or when, more often than not, they ask for some service from the administration, especially from the local ones, tax obligations have suddenly been opened for past years. Dear Mr. Ananiev, my question is: what action will the Ministry of Finance take, and within what time limit for notification to taxable persons of their obligations by providing reliable and timely information on the amounts charged, payable, paid, translated, received, but not distributed to the relevant lot, outstanding liabilities and balance, on the individual account of taxable persons, including local taxes and fees both for the current year and for past periods?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Naydenova. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u71	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Naydenova! The right of debtors to access information about their public obligations and the time limits within which due taxes, compulsory social contributions and other public obligations should be paid is guaranteed in art. 17, para. 1 of the Tax Insurance Procedure Code. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 107, para. The right of the debtor to obtain, on request, a reference to the manner in which the obligation containing data on the type, basis, total and unpaid amount has been calculated. In accordance with art. 87, para. 9 of the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code, the registered person is entitled to electronic access to his tax and insurance account in order and manner, determined by order of the Executive Director of the National Revenue Agency. In the implementation of the above, the NRA shall provide to its electronic service portal up-to-date reference information on the amount of the obligations of persons both for the current year and for the past years as from 1 January 2013. The information shall be available to the obliged persons of the NRA e-service portal with a qualified electronic signature or an NRA ARC, and shall be made in the following references: Information on obligations and payments, Information on obligations with the possibility of payment, Reference on payments made to the NRA's accounts and liabilities repaid with them. With regard to local taxes and charges, it should be borne in mind that the Law on Local Taxes and Fees on Real Estate Tax provides that the amount of obligations for the calendar year to the local budget is to be communicated to the taxable person. As regards past obligations, it should be borne in mind that debtors have been notified in the relevant calendar year and in the event that they have not been paid within the statutory deadline, debts remain due until repayment under the Tax Insurance Procedure Code. It is important to note that the information concerning the liabilities of the debtors for the current year, for past years, paid and unpaid or overpaid amounts for local taxes and fees, is not stored in a common information system for the whole country, similar to the NRA system. This implies that the municipality concerned should inform the debtors of the amount of local taxes and fees for the current year determined at the location of the real estate or at the permanent address of the debtors.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u72	Get it over with, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u73	A number of municipalities provide on their websites an electronic verification service for local taxes and fees, such as the large municipalities of Sofia, Plovdiv, Burgas, Ruse, Stara Zagora, Varna and others, provide an electronic service for payment of debts via virtual terminal device POS or via ePay.bg.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u74	Get it over with, Mr. Secretary!?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u75	A little more!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u76	How little? After that, you have two more minutes that you can work out. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u77	It's not more than 30 seconds or a minute.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u78	Okay, you got it!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u79	Also on its electronic service portal, the NRA provides an administrative service with a reference to local taxes and charges with the possibility of making payments entered in the administrative register by which the debtors can obtain information about the amount of their duties to the municipal budget and the opportunities to pay them. The definition of the order and manner of notification to persons of the local taxes and the fee for municipal waste is within the competence of the municipalities. The definition of a single order and way of notifying debtors to be applied to all municipalities would violate the principle of local self-government and the process of decentralisation of municipalities. The setting of requirements by another body, which is different from the municipality, is at risk of being unable to meet the specifics of the different municipalities, as well as missing important data needed by municipal employees in the administration of local taxes and fees. Thank you, Mr. President, and to you, Members of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u80	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Mrs. Naydenova, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u81	Mr. Chairman, in the time of my line, I object to the way you behave to the respected Mr. Ananiev. Mr. Ananiev, I want to tell you that my question is asked as a result of a number of citizens' questions. I know that this setup of the financial system is very subtle and that can only be done by specialists. I wanted to know if we, as MPs, would require a change in some of the laws. I believe that there is really a field of action in this direction, even though there is local self-government, but they do not have the right to legislative initiative, and I believe that in this direction we will still propose to be united and to have information about all people. [[Replication by "BSP" for Bulgaria "Declaration"]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u82	Thank you. Would you like to use the back, Mr. Ananiev? If there's anything you need to finish at your fair, you can use it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u83	May I, Mr. Chairman, just one sentence? I accept the proposal to continue talking about local taxes and fees. You know that the procedure for the budget for 2021 and the three-year budget forecast is now underway. I will have meetings with the Management Board of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, I will put this question, which you have put before me: whether they need any change, improvement, improvement of the regulations in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u84	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. On behalf of the BSP parliamentary group, a statement outside the agenda discussed. Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u85	Declaration. A declaration, not a statement. Dear MPs, dear Bulgarians! On 15 September, Borisov's government took a new loan from the international markets -- a 10-year issue of 2.5 billion. lv. and 2.5 billion in 30 years, a total of 5 billion. lv. For this action of the government there are many questions without answers from the prime minister. First of all, why did you need a new debt? After all, only a few months ago the Prime Minister claimed that despite the crisis we do not have to take a new loan because the state reserve has 9 billion. lv. By the end of 2019 the government debt allocated to Bulgaria's gross domestic product is about 20%. Only one comparison with the poor governance of the Socialists condemned by GERB, the debt at the end of 2009 was 13%! Second question, why did you have to issue debt in the international market? Experts say it is much more useful for the Bulgarian economy and the financial markets to place such a amount on the internal market. In the shrinking demand, in the case of declining exports and without particular interest in lending, in the case of difficulties in providing sufficiently large packages of low-risk government securities, the issue of an external loan, of an internal loan, would solve our domestic, Bulgarian economic problems. Question three, the conditions under which the debt was taken. The government's claims are definitely inadequate that it has achieved a super-low debt price due to it............................................................................................... In fact, the annual interest rate, i.e. the price of this debt on 10-year bonds, is 0.4% and 30-year bonds, which is 1.4%. For comparison, the last loan in EUR from the European Union of 1 billion is only at an interest rate of 0.1%! For months the European Central Bank and the Central Bank of the United States have maintained zero, even negative, key interest rates that support the prices of government bonds of developed countries around zero and negative ones. And fourth, of course, most importantly, will this loan stimulate the economy and will it improve the living level of our people or, as always, will it be spent pre-election, opaque and not according to the rules? Of course, there is an explanation for this money will be used to repay old loans to Borisov from 2016 to cover a deficit of nearly 3.5 billion. lv. More importantly, there is no plan for economic growth against this money, for reform of the health system, for investment in the water sector, for environmental policies, for increasing incomes, for reducing inequalities. There are developed countries that will say someone with higher debt compared to gross domestic product. That's true, but there are public finances invested in raising the standard of living, and in our country they are wasted through the jeep window. And here's the big problem and the question. Dear Bulgarians, for Borisov's 10-year reign he has taken a total of 30 billion. lv. loans! What do we have against this? The quality of healthcare is falling; functional illiteracy is increasing in children; inequalities are increasing; the environment is increasingly unhealthy; one third of the Bulgarian population is without access to drinking water; there is no electronic government; the quality of public and social services is getting lower. The price of all this is a loan against a bad standard of living, paid by the entire people. The Prime Minister of Bulgaria will be remembered for the frequent shifts of his position on the same issue according to the situation of the day, but one of them is absolutely consistent with the violation of the parliamentary republic and the breakdown of statehood. For Borisov, the concept of separation of authorities and mutual control between them is unknown. For 10 years he did not come to parliament to submit a budget, to attend a budget update, to take account of the implementation of Bulgaria's budget at least once, and this is our money. We all pay so that one person can spend a single, opaque, unaccounted for political survival. Despite the protests, despite the new political situation, despite the rejection of this model by more and more Bulgarian citizens, he did not learn a lesson and continued in the same way this week. Here is another argument that every day the stay of this government proves that it is harmful. It is becoming increasingly evident that the solution to many questions is rooted in his resignation. They wasted 10 years on Bulgaria in the past, squandered our present, dear Bulgarians, not to let them waste our future! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Mr. Ananiev, yes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u87	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Ninova, when you decide to take the floor on such an important issue as the taking of duty and its use, I will ask you or better prepare yourself with real information, real information, not false information, or give the floor to someone who understands this matter. [[Reply from "BSP" for Bulgaria "Don't give an assessment!"]] As soon as I conducted the issue on Wednesday, I received a call from all the European Commission's leadership and all my colleagues, the European Commission's finance ministers, who congratulated me on the best result achieved in 2020! [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] Twenty-seven emissions were made in 2020 by 27 countries. Our issue has the lowest interest rate of 0,375. I will personally provide you with this list and you will see that other interest rates of other countries move between one and 3.25%. Romania, for example, is 3.25%, Hungary, I think it is two whole and sixty-seventy, but I will personally present this list to you to see how lower and lowest our interest rate is. At the same time, I would like to tell you that between these 27 emissions from countries, half of them and most of them are members of the Eurozone, and they have achieved a higher interest rate, that is, a worse yield than ours, which we achieved in the issue, and in the 30-year paper, four countries have drawn credit in 2020 for a 30-year period. We are in the first place with 1.37 " 1.4," as you rounded it up, while others are moving at 2,5 "3" of these four countries, three are members of the Eurozone and only one is a member of the European Union. What are we gonna use that for? You must have a serious knowledge of what is ahead for us by the end of the year, what is planned to be done at the beginning of next year, and we are also taking appropriate measures to bring about a new stage of the CIVID-19 epidemic. [[Noise.]] The economic and social measures adopted by the government must be implemented because they are aimed at people and businesses. We have made this commitment to them and will bring the economy of the state out of this crisis, as well as the difficult social situation in which the Bulgarian citizens have fallen are more important to us. And let your address be in line with reality. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u88	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Please, the Quaestors, remove the people who are interviewing in the hall, remove them immediately! [[Reply: "They are from Skat! "]] It doesn't matter who she is. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u89	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u90	The way you're leading it? Here you go, Mr. Gechev. I hope it's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u91	Dear Mr. Chairman... [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u92	Order, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u93	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! Dear Mr. President, you should not even allow a cabinet member to make unprepared political assessments of statements prepared by experts. [[GERB lines.]] There is hardly a declaration in parliament made by a parliamentary group chairman who has not been consulted. The numbers are perfect, they are from the statistics of BNB, the National Statistical Institute and Eurostat. The minister's claims are absolutely unfounded in perfect numbers. We cannot agree, Mr. Chairman, with the government's statements in the media about some miraculous peculiarity of the Bulgarian government in terms of debt.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u94	No, no. What's your procedure, what's your procedure? Here you enter into a commentary on the substance.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u95	That's the procedure. The numbers are perfect, the minister is fooling.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u96	What's the procedure I can't understand?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u97	He doesn't answer why we need such a debt, since he declared 9 billion supposedly fiscal reserves...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u98	Mr. Gechev, I'll turn off your microphone!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u99	...and there are no miracles in Bulgaria. [[(The President turns off the microphones. The orator continues to speak with microphones off. Claps from the BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u100	Ministers are entitled to a statement as soon as they want it. There is no limit on what the statement must be. At least in the Rules I have not seen such a restriction. I appeal to you with a request: do not use the pretext for a procedural statement to speak on the ground or comment on the Minister's statement is not correct.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u101	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u102	And you in the manner of conduct! Interesting parliamentary control is emerging today.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u103	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Chairman, thank you for your procedure in the manner of conduct, and it is entirely to you. I would really ask you, when colleagues are making a clear statement, feeling that they have written the declaration of the BSP group, their expertise has been affected. I think this expertise was seen by the entire Bulgarian people, especially in the late 1990s and the three-dollar pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u104	I can't figure out what to do now?! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u105	To interrupt them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u106	Should I interrupt them?! I interrupted him. [[Noise and lines.]] I think we should get to the point. Do you also have a procedure in the manner of conduct? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yes, a procedure in the manner of conduct, because you are wondering what to do with your colleague, who apparently did not give you a procedure in the manner of conduct. What I am going to ask you is: when out of this tribune, the Minister gives assessments to MPs, to parliamentary group presidents, to parliamentary groups' declarations regarding their preparation, accuracy, correctness, to interrupt it. The parliamentary group is entitled to 10 minutes of parliamentary time to explain to the Bulgarian citizens how it sees the development of the state in relation to these loans. And no one can give grades to even a minister, whether or not to finance! And the only thing to come, Mr. Minister, because you asked us to get acquainted with what is to come is your resignation. There's nothing else to be done!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u108	They're lies!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u109	To you and to the entire government! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mr. Chairman, I ask you to impose a penalty on Mrs. Alexandrova, who has also heard in the transcript, please note the line Mrs. Alexandrova made in the room, the call. Ma'am, I'm asking you to score. Mr. Chairman, I'm counting on you to impose punishment. I guess you heard him.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u110	Thanks for the recommendation. Mr. Svilenski, you have valuable suggestions from your point of view and you have expressed your view on the Minister's speech. You may put it as a proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure. For now, there are no such texts in the Rules as you ask me to observe, I'm sorry. If you don't mind, let's continue with parliamentary control. The second question to the Minister of Finance Mr. Kiril Ananiev is from the National Representative Dimitar Boychev Petrov on providing a financial service for intermediary ATMs. Here you go, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u111	Alexandrova, that's no way to talk!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u112	Mr. Svilensky, be careful of your behavior, don't harm the order in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, Dear Minister, Dear Ministers! Mr. Minister, in a difficult year for Bulgarian tourism and economics a few days ago a signal was published in the media by citizens, and to us as MPs were introduced such signals related to increased fees for the withdrawal of ATMs on the Black Sea coast. It is about the placed moving objects of the ATM in Sunny Beach with the brand "Euronet" which collect disproportionately high deductions in withdrawals from accounts in currency. Foreign and Bulgarian citizens are repeatedly required to use the services of the above-mentioned ATMs during their stay in our country. The amounts to be deducted from them are within 10% of the payment service, which is a very disturbing, high percentage for this service. Those ATMs do not for the first year cause concerns for the holidayers on the Black Sea coast. The use of the so-called intermediary ATMs is permitted by the Law and is not new in our country. They are mostly located in the resort complexes of visited by tourists. Usually consumers do not understand or understand too late that the cash withdrawal fee and exchange rate are extremely unfavorable if the account is in currency. Similar signals from the citizens who chose the Bulgarian Black Sea coast for their holiday undermine the prestige of our country, harm its image to a secure and affordable tourist destination. According to media checks and information provided by BNB and NRA, all activities and charges withheld are allegedly legal. My question to you is: has the Ministry of Finance been informed as an authority to monitor the regulation of similar types of services for the case with ATM ATMs, have there been checks carried out on the case, and what have they found? Do you have any information on how many moving objects of this company are located on the territory of our country and what is the opinion of the Ministry of Finance on this case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u114	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u115	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, dear Mr. Boychev! The question, Mr. Chairman, is extremely important and up-to-date, and my answer, unfortunately, will be more than three minutes, and perhaps...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u116	Well, it can't be.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u117	...you will give me the opportunity to continue and Mr. Boychev will get the full information with my participation in the back. Otherwise, I can't finish. In the performance of its functions of forming and coordinating state policy in the field of financial services and financial markets, the Ministry of Finance shall cooperate in the field of financial services, draw up and coordinate draft regulations in this area, ensuring compliance of national legislation with European Union law. Control of the implementation of financial services and financial markets regulatory acts is entrusted to the relevant supervisory authorities, with certain functions relating to the rules on the protection of consumers of financial services being entrusted to the Commission for Consumer Protection. Within the framework of my functional competence as Minister of Finance, I will introduce you to the existing national and directly applicable European legal rules on the issues referred to. Insofar as the Ministry of Finance does not have the power to exercise control over the activities of the ATM operators and to monitor compliance with the regulatory requirements, we addressed some of the questions to the Bulgarian National Bank. The problem with the excessive charges for withdrawals from terminal devices ATM of the company "Yuronet Services" Ltd. and the applied exchange rate is when the card holder's account with the card issuer is in foreign currency is not national but is observed in many Member States of the European Union and, above all, in the countries outside the euro area. It is subject to regular discussion in the working formats of the European Union, in search of the best options for its solution in favour of users of financial services, while ensuring that the basic principles of the market are not violated. The issue is related to the activity of some ATM operators, which offer alternative options for currency withdrawals when the withdrawal takes place. In particular, the cardholder has two options to withdraw money from the ATM. One option to withdraw, accompanied by a currency exchange service at the time of the payment transaction, is the so-called dynamic overvaluation offered by third parties, often registered in other countries under agreement with the ATM operator. The other option is to withdraw by carrying out a subsequent exchange by the payment service provider of the cardholder, such as the card issuer bank. Acting as an ATM operator and currency exchange when cash withdrawals through ATMs themselves do not fall within the scope of regulation under the Law on Payment Services and Payment Systems. A licence is not required to carry out this activity unless the person concerned provides another payment service.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u118	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. As head of one of the most orderly ministries in the country, it would be good to comply with the Rules of the National Assembly, and it sets you three minutes for an answer. So far, three questions have been asked, and I personally could not hear the answer to any of them. The first: Is the Ministry of Finance familiar as a body to monitor the regulation of such services, have there been checks carried out on the case and what have they established? I didn't hear an answer to that question. The second: do you have any information on how many moving objects of this company are located on the territory of our country? Also there wasn't, so prepare a written reply and pass it on to Mr. Boychev. Mr. Boychev, come in if you have any bearing on the response and possibly the minister will complete in the last two minutes what he has failed. [[Noise and lines.]] I'm trying to follow the rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I am pleased that you have taken the matter so seriously because it is really serious. If I may remind you that we had such a problem with the Change desks. I know this concerns international regulation, but we still have to pay attention to this thing, because there really is no way to allow a company to benefit from an entire industry, and this company has really had a very negative impact on tourism. I will draw your attention: I am ready and with my colleagues will support it, if necessary with a legislative initiative, give us some texts, but really find a solution to this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u120	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u121	Thank you. Regulation (EU) 2019/518, which entered into force since April 2020, was adopted in March 2019 and introduced certain requirements with regard to conversion fees, in addition to transparency requirements under the Law on Payment Services and Payment Systems. The regulation has direct applicability for violations of its requirements and the requirements of the Law provide for fines and property penalties. According to him, the acts for the identification of infringements are drawn up by persons authorised by BNB's sub-manager, head of the management of the Bank's supervision and the criminal decrees are issued by the sub-manager or by a person authorised by him. In view of the current regulations and the designated authority, which monitors compliance with the requirements of the Law on Payment Services and Payment Systems, and the Regulation, we have turned to the BNB for information on the questions you have asked about the checks you have carried out, the number of terminal devices of the ATM of the According to the reply received, in 2019 a check was carried out by the BNB concerning signals related to the company's activities, which found that the requirements for prior notification of the applicable withdrawal and exchange fees, including the exchange rate referred to in art. Art. 50, Art. 54 of the Law has been implemented. In the course of the verification, the company provided images from the screen of the terminal device of the ATM, showing that the client's operation is indicated the amount in BGN, the amount in the corresponding other currency with which the payment account of the client will be due, the applicable exchange rate, and the total amount of the costs of re-valuation expressed as a percentage allowance. The client shall be given the opportunity to accept the conversion service offered by the terminal operator according to the specified parameters or to refuse and exchange the currency to be carried out by the payment service provider leading his account. Following 19 April 2020, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 January 2015 to 25 January 2020 (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13). The date of entry into force of the provisions of the Regulation has not carried out another verification of the company's compliance with the requirements for prior customer notification of the costs of conversion, but according to the reply received by the BNB, the preliminary information provided to the customers meets these requirements and remains the same as that found in the verification in 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u122	Get it over with, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u123	According to BNB data, at the end of June 2020 in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, the company "Uronet Services" Ltd operates with a total of 28 terminal devices of ATM. The larger number of devices are located in seaside resorts, with a small number of devices in Sofia and at some border crossing points. We believe that at this stage it is appropriate to increase control over the implementation of the requirements of the Payment Services and Payment Systems Act. The Ministry of Finance and BNB discuss the possibility and appropriateness of additional measures at national level with a view to the correct application of the requirements of the Regulation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u124	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Maybe that's what you should have started with, because that's the answer to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u125	Mr. President, in order to get to this point, we must say about the regulation of the national and European legislation, which is directly applicable in Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u126	Thank you. Mr. Boychev, you can get a written answer. We continue with the questions to the Minister of Energy Ms. Temenuzhka Petkova. The first question is from the MPs Tasco Ermenkov and Vasil Antonov on a procedure for the construction of NPP. Who will present the question? Mr. Antonov, come in. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u127	Dear Mr. Chairman, Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, I ask you to answer the following question: at what stage is the implementation of the decision of the National Assembly, as well as of the Council of Ministers of June 2018, for the construction of the nuclear power plant of Belene? As well as whether all the necessary documents for project licensing have been submitted to the Nuclear Regulatory Agency? I would like to refer you to the last question asked to us on 12 June this year, when you expressed too much optimism that the Belene plant will be built and in the additional issue we came to the general conclusion that if everything is being implemented as it is under the Memorandum, the first block will be built by 2029, the second energy block by 2030, respectively. A few days later, on 18 June, the three major energy and world companies from the shortlist All that has been said so far, how does the Energy Development Sustainability Strategy that you are proposing for discussion, where nothing is mentioned about the nuclear power plant,.............................................................................. Moreover, in your personal statement to the media, you mentioned that nuclear facilities would be built, but you did not mention "Belene." You left a big question mark. And is this not how you are facing new difficulties, respectively, new arbitrage major claims from these three companies, which are very much ready to build a nuclear power plant? Thank you. I'm waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u128	Thank you. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u129	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Ermenkov, Mr. Antonov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Antonov, there have been more questions than what you and Mr. Ermenkov have formulated. I will try as quickly as possible and within the time allowed by the Rules of the National Assembly to answer these questions. First of all, as you mentioned, two decisions were taken in June 2018 by the National Assembly, subsequently in implementation of the National Assembly Decision, and a decision was taken by the Council of Ministers relating to the renewal of actions in search of the possibility of realization of the NPP project with the participation of a strategic investor and with parameters strictly fixed by the National Assembly, namely: without State aid, without long-term contracts for the purchase of electricity. In the implementation of the National Assembly Decision and subsequently the decision of the Council of Ministers, which entrusts the Minister of Energy to carry out certain activities, I have taken the necessary actions, the colleagues of the Bulgarian Energy Holding and the National Electricity Company, as well as each of these institutions within their competences, took their actions. A strategic investor selection procedure has been developed. This procedure has been reported, approved by the Council of Ministers, MPs from the Energy Commission are also aware of it. We are currently at stage five of the procedure, namely the developed Information Memorandum and included the participants who are included in the short list. These are several companies in the first place, the Chinese CNNC Corporation, the Korea Hydroatomic Corporation, the Rozatom Corporation, the General Electric and Framatom. With these companies, first of all, a confidentiality agreement was signed, as requested by the procedure. They are given the Information Memorandum and will be granted access to the Information Hall for the project, which is located in the National Electricity Company. Access to this room at present is difficult to achieve, given the global pandemic of COVID-19 and the restrictions imposed on the travel of the representatives of these corporations. As regards the specific issue relating to the documentation concerning the Nuclear Regulatory Agency, it may be important to say that it is precisely in the implementation of the National Assembly's Decision that the National Electricity Company carried out correspondence with the Nuclear Regulatory Agency that requested the AYAR, as a result of which it received a written reply from 6 December 2018. This written reply concerns precisely the process for completing the project licensing procedure and the opinion of the Nuclear Regulatory Agency in this respect that the AYAR considers that the acts issued in connection with the licensing process and entered into force retain their effect, the NEC holder may draw rights from them. Such are the acts issued by the AYAR and entered into force: an order for approval of the selected site and the design authorisation. The AAR also noted that, in the case of the practical renewal of the actions concerning the implementation of the project, the licensing process should continue from the approval phase of the technical design of the facility, taking into account the large volumes of actions carried out so far.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u130	Get it over with, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u131	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry. At the same time, it is stated in the same procedure that an assessment must also be carried out in terms of current regulatory requirements, if any. The National Electricity Company, in accordance with these AYR guidelines, has developed a procedure under the Public Procurement Act. This procedure was approved by the National Electricity Company in February 2020. It was subsequently approved by the Bulgarian Energy Holding. In view of the COVID-19 crisis, the information I have from NEK is that the procedure at this stage has not started. Since negotiations must be conducted, the procedure is directly negotiated with a company that at this stage has problems with travel.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u132	Thank you, Madam Secretary. This is no longer relevant to specific matters.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u133	Thank you. Excuse me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u134	Who's gonna use the line? Mr. Ermenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u135	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It is natural that this answer cannot be satisfactory not only for us, but for everyone who is concerned about Bulgaria's energy security. Is this project a priority? It has not been clear how far the licensing process has reached since 2018. We heard what was done by 2018 not only on the site, but also on the project. It's not about building permits. It's about the project itself and the reactors themselves. The so-called Sustainable Energy Development Strategy does not speak at all about Belene, although there is a parliament's solution to its development. Obviously, once again with the action or more precisely with your inaction, you are leading the project to failure and I am interested in who at political level in the Ministry is responsible for this project? Don't tell me it's the Deputy Minister, because he's one for everything with you. He's one for both gas and heat and electricity and energy efficiency and concessions. Whatever capacity this man has can hardly cover all these problems alone. I would like to ask you: do you think that the level of junior expert in NEK, as stated in the tender documentation, is serious enough for a contact point for such giants, such as. And isn't this another proof that you and the government of Bulgaria are abdicating once again from this project? The question is: why and in whose interests? Or maybe the goal is to become the biggest reactor dealer without being their manufacturer? Madam Minister, please speed up the process. Do not look for the reasons for the inaction of the administration, because Bulgaria will not forgive you if you waste the last chance to implement this strategic project, which is important for all the energy security of the state, and stand in a row with those who destroyed the Bulgarian electricity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u136	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. It would be good to stick to the rules, not to make qualifications, to give definitions. After all, you have the right to a reply, which is an objection to the substance.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u137	I basically did it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u138	Madam Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u139	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ermenkov, thank you for this comment, but I will allow myself to disagree with you. First of all, you may not have heard very well, but the Nuclear Regulatory Agency commented not on the building permit, but on the design solution. There's a huge difference. You are a man of the sector and you are well aware of the difference between the relevant documents. As far as Bulgaria's energy strategy is concerned, you also know very well that such a document cannot contain the specific in relation to certain projects. If you open the current Strategy from 2011, you will also see that it is recorded there and it is planned to build a new nuclear power of 2000 megawatts, but nowhere is it indicated where it will be. This is a strategic document that justifies the need for the capacities that will be needed in the Bulgarian electricity system. Therefore, do not use this topic and make certain political suggestions. With regard to the NPP project, we strictly respect the decision of the Bulgarian Parliament. Parliament's decision is related to seeking the possibility of realising the project on a market basis. Our government is looking for this opportunity and I think we are doing extremely well at this stage. As for my responsibilities and who is in charge of the project, I am a disciplined person and what has been decided by the Bulgarian Parliament and the Council of Ministers, I carry it out. It says: the Minister of Energy answers. I answer personally with regard to the implementation of this project, as I have been commissioned by the Bulgarian Parliament and the Council of Ministers. I am also responsible for concessions and for a number of other sectors related to energy directly. This is about this subject. As for whether Bulgaria will become an exporter of nuclear-related equipment, I will only allow myself to recall one fact and it is related to 2007, when it is not the government of the Political Party GERB sold back to the Russian country the old equipment for the NPP project Belene. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u140	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Next question to the Minister of Environment and Lead Mr. Emil Dimitrov. The question is from the MPs Lyubomir Bonev, Kristina Sidorova and Ivan Ivanov on the policy of the Ministry of Environment and Waters for Water Resources Management in the Republic of Bulgaria. Who's gonna bring it up? Here you are, Mrs. Sidorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u141	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, a chronicle of a well-known catastrophe! Yeah, it's a disaster! This can characterize the country's water resource management policy in our country. Today, dozens of cities and villages are in water mode. That's as much as they're threatened by. Our dams are half empty. And in this dramatic situation, there is one big absentee. The State absent is the State which, in the face of the management and the Ministry of Environment and Water, is called upon to implement the water resource management policy. To this end, there is not a single programme, not a single plan, not a short-term, long-term, medium-term strategy. Time is passing by. The water is gone. There is a note of the National Program for the necessary measures and conditions for the trends towards drying. If you open it, Mr. Minister, you will see that everything that is written there is valid today. What's happening right now? Water resources in Bulgaria have been managed for many years by outdated methods, lack of responsibility, lack of care and lack of control. Adding to that and drying, we have the painting today. Tens of thousands of people are in trouble, the dams are gone, almost no waters inside. January was Pernik, today are Sevlievo and Svishtov, very soon will be many more cities.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u142	Is that for the question, Mrs. Sidorova? I'm getting confused.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u143	Yeah, to the question. It's about water resources.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u144	Is there a question?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u145	There's a question. I still have time, Mr. Chairman. Please don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u146	Would you please state your questions?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u147	Run, Kamchia, Hawk, Silka... I don't have to go on half-empty dams! I would like to remind you of your statement, Mr. Minister: the danger of a great drought continues. And I will complement you: it has directly entered the homes of tens of thousands of Bulgarians, because when the crisis went in there, when the floods went in, it means that the state had left. In this regard, my question to you is: what is the policy of the Ministry of Environment and Waters for Water Resources Management of the Republic of Bulgaria? I hope they are not wishful phrases and empty promises, but a real policy that will lead to overcoming this huge problem for our country.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u148	Thank you, Mrs. Sidorova. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u149	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Sidorova, Mr. Ivanov, Mr. Bonev, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! In reply to your question, I shall inform you of the following: The main objective of the Ministry of Environment and Water under the Water Act is the achievement of integrated water management in the country, its conservation and environmentally friendly use. Waters on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria are managed as a national indivisible natural resource. The aim of the Law is to ensure integrated water management in the interests of society and to protect the health of the population, as well as to create conditions for ensuring sufficient quantity and quality of water, reducing water pollution, reducing the effects of floods and droughts. The Water Act introduces the principle of river basin management in government water policy and transposes these requirements into the laws of the European Union on water, including the Framework Directive on Water 2060/EC and the Flood Directive 2007/60/EC. The transposition of the directive into the Water Act provides for regulatory adoption of the principles laid down, long-term planning approaches to reach a good state of water and reduce the risk of flooding. A key instrument for integrated water management is river basin management plans, flood risk management plans and marine environmental protection strategy. Plans for river basin management, flood risk management plans and programmes for the period 2016 - 2021 were adopted by decision of the Council of Ministers at the end of 2016. An update of the planning documents is currently under way in accordance with the requirements of the European legislation. The waters in the Republic of Bulgaria are managed at national swimming pool level. Water management at national level is carried out by the Minister of Environment and Water. To support the Ministry's activities in water management was established a Higher Water Advisory Council, including representatives of ministries concerned with the water, the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, municipalities, non-profit legal entities having direct regard. The management of a pool level within the range of one or more water districts is carried out by water management bodies of four water management departments. There are also pool tips to support their activities. The Ministry of Environment and Water manages the use of the waters of 52 dams in the country included in Annex 1 to art. 13 of the Water Act. Their total volume is about 85% of the volume of all dams built in the country. The Ministry of Environment and Water shall monitor the state of the water on a daily basis, regulation in the dams referred to in Annex 1 on the basis of information coming from the companies that operate them, which exploit the dams and their facilities. Annual and monthly schedules are drawn up for complex significant dams. The annual strategy for using the dam during the year is defined. Monthly water volumes are determined for use by the various water users. The schedules shall be validated by the Minister and shall form an integral part of the permits. The annual schedule shall be validated by the Minister of Environment and Water until 10 February. The monthly shall be drawn up taking into account the current information, the condition of the dam of the previous month, the strategy set by the annual timetable, an estimate of expected inflow, hydrometeorological situation and an assessment of the requests made by the holders of the water collection permits. If necessary, water shall be transferred to monthly schedules, free volumes shall be determined to absorb expected inflow and specific conditions shall be laid down for permit holders. The maintenance of the monthly volumes is carried out through hydroelectric power plants and, if not possible, via a main leaker. The permitted limits shall be set by a monthly schedule. They may be exceeded in the event of a certain absorption volume and expected inflow or in the event of unforeseen or exceptional circumstances. In the event of such unforeseen or exceptional circumstances with the operation of the facilities or hydrometeorological situation, the monthly timetable may be amended, notified to the interested parties. This year the watering season was dry and watering the river beds so that the wells of the water sector would not fall. Half my speech was about the water sector that our ministry is not responsible for. A daily assessment shall be carried out in the context of high years to minimise the risk of flooding. The Swimming Directorates also have their powers... on the basis of the information collected, action shall be taken. In the event of a high wave in rivers leaving the country, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs shall immediately inform the competent authorities of the country concerned. We've had several such crises this year. In the specified and regulated channels of communication and disclosure, we have made known to the parties what is expected of us. One was a stunt "Arda".. huge precipitation, from one dam to the other, in the third. We managed to keep the high wave in the middle dam. We didn't allow the flood of Greek territory. We informed them in due time and no one understood that there were so many rainfalls and that we, in fact, two centimeters from a transfusion, were able to master the situation, mostly thanks to the dams and stunts and the Ministry of Energy.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u150	You're running out of time, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u151	I'm done, Mr. Chairman. Of the 52 complex and significant dams, as you ask about the drinking-bit supply, are: "Iskar", "Belli Iskar", "Srechenska bar", "Smirnenski", "Yovkovtsi, "Ticha", "Kamchia, "Yasna Polyana", "Assenovets", "Borovitsa", "Studena, "Yastrebino, "Dyakovo, "Kalin, "Karagyol." With them the available volume of less than 50% of the dams are: The inflow they have received since the beginning of 2020 is as follows: the Hawks 3.88 in the presence of at least 15 must rain so that we can give to farmers. We're saving it for drinking, but it's got to rain 15 so we can give and it's rained three. Everything else is based on a backup at the dam. He spends about that much in a month and something. There's an inflow this year in a month, and we're gonna be pouring out of the dam for 12 months, and then why isn't there water?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u152	Mr. Dimitrov, the question is very general
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u153	I'm done with the last sentence. The amount of the certified volumes available in the Annex 1 dams you asked is 57.2 of the sum of their total volumes. It's 67.7. Irrigation of 34,5, energy of 69.6. For the third consecutive drought year the dams are enough and very full. It hasn't rained in Eastern Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u154	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. For two additional questions, please come in, Mr. Bonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear Members of the House! Mr. Minister, what you read to us in three minutes, I can read on the MoEW page.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u156	Five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u157	Excuse me, five minutes, this is my fault, I apologize. We ask you about the management policy of water resources, by fully focusing on.. Perhaps I will develop it in the question of dams, because, as you said, everything comes down to integrated management of water resources. It is absolutely not true, Minister, that the last three years have been dry. I can get you a reference that shows that the amount of precipitation for last year is 90% of the forecast. That's just for last year. Mr. Minister, exactly a year ago, on the same day, perhaps with a day or two apart, this is the tribune I was asking about the town of Pernik. As if one year after that there is an unscientific lesson about the management of the dams, about the water quantities you permit. Reading the schedules, I return to the dams, we see that, for example, Koprinka Reservoir is 30%, Zhrebchevo is 25%, Georgy Traykov is below 30% water volumes. Koprinka dam you've authorized 15 million. Cube. m. water draw at 21 total volume. At the beginning of October this dam may be completely empty. I can read to you about Topolnitsa Dam, if you like, because I see that you read it too. Topolnitsa Reservoir of 28 million This is the schedule of 9/11 if you don't know what you signed. This is the schedule that you signed. Mr. Minister, I will continue with the further questions. We are interested in the policy of the Ministry concerning the management and management of water resources, the dams, especially for drinking-bit needs.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u158	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Mr. Minister, come in, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u159	You're asking about the drinking-bits, and you mentioned the irrigation dams, very nice. You said: a year ago there was a problem in Pernik, well, why didn't you mention that the dam was full, he and Dyakovo? So there's no change, but the dams are full!? And you ask for those who are for irrigation, who are on this level every year. Separately, it really didn't rain. Koprinka Reservoir to sit down and explain to you what a one-year-old and multi-year-old equalizer is, but you will have to learn at least that. You can read the strategy, and you ask me to read it to you from the stands. Why didn't you read it, don't ask questions. What else besides what you have accepted as the Law, can I read to you? You can read this schedule every day "Don't read it, but you want me to read it to you from the stands!" Okay, then I'll explain only about the Koprinka dam, because for Pernik you don't ask they're already full, but someone filled them up before then, right? Ladies and gentlemen, we once had many wise hydroengineers that made great dams. We only need to maintain them and comply with their emergency plans and what their designers, architects and builders had in mind. Koprinka Reservoir is a one-year equalizer. He only collects water for one year to be full. In the place where it is located, it can be filled twice in one year... with a good year, but the water has nowhere to go. And because the snow melts, it comes very early and they have made after it on the river Tundja....the second dam....the second dam....the second dam....the second dam....the second dam. When this early spring is filled, let's have somewhere to go. The first is filled in one year, sometimes completely, sometimes twice in one year. The second one could be 400 million in four years. Architects and constructors have invented it in the old days. This one is filled early. This one goes to the next, no matter how full it is, and when both are full, it goes to Stara Zagora. All waters authorised this year by Koprinka Dam are allowed for irrigation, for industrial purposes and are used by the citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria. If you want, they can close for next year all the dams, especially Pernik, because it is at your heart and then it will always be full, but there will be no water for the plant or for drinking, but it will be full dam. This year really didn't come much rain. Hydrometeorology shows it. In my opinion, the improper use there is that water is directed not to the next dam, as the architects invented, but towards Stara Zagora. Of course, this will be overcome with the schedules this year. When there is plenty of water, you can do anything when there is little water. This year we won't let the farmers die. We gave them water to water. I'm worried about next year, too. If there's too much rain, we won't be having this conversation. If we don't have it, first are the drinking-bit citizens, then there should be irrigation and finally the industry. We're gonna shut down hydropower, shut down power, people are gonna be dissatisfied, but there's got to be water for drinking water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u160	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Bonev, you have two minutes to deal with this.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear Members of the House! Mr. Minister, we read and understand as opposed to you because in the end you brought the dams into the country to be empty. No other you, personally you, with your signature, Mr. Minister. Don't laugh. Things are tragic because you're about to let go, not to say a big word, over 500,000. residents of this country without water or water regime. We are talking about cities such as Burgas, Varna, Shumen. That's why I'm talking and there's nothing funny about what I'm telling you. I ask you how it is managed, what is the approach to water resource management? None at all, none at all! The last 10 years, no politics. It's a good thing you set Pernik up as an example. Last year, you explained it was an election struggle. Except it didn't turn out to be a pre-election struggle, it turned out to be a 100,000-dollar genocide. Souls. That turned out to be Mr. Secretary. Those are the facts. Mr. Minister, someone must be responsible for what is happening entirely in the water sector. I think you're still part of the Council of Ministers, don't you? You are talking to Petya Avramova, don't transfer the ball to the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. You permit the quantities of water used for both drinking and domestic purposes. Don't shift the focus. Our question was entirely oriented towards understanding the policy of the Ministry, not relying on rain, not nature. To find that approach that will guarantee water supply and water supply to every Bulgarian citizen. That's our attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u162	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. You had the right to use two minutes to deal with the answer. You used it to treat the minister, but so you decided, so you did. We continue with the next question to the Minister of Environment and Water. The issue is from the National Representative Radostin Tanev about the state of the dam "Koprinka" and wells providing drinking water in Stara Zagora district. Here you go, Mr. Tanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u163	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, the questions I have with you are not intended to suggest or paint the apocalypse that my colleagues just did. The idea is to see what is the state so that the citizens of Stara Zagora region are fully aware of what awaits them. In this regard, I would like to ask you a few questions about the state of the dam Koprinka and wells providing drinking water in Stara Zagora region, because the colleague is obviously not familiar, but in Stara Zagora the water intended for the citizens does not come from the dams, but whatever. What is the state of Koprinka dam and can we expect problems with the water supply of Stara Zagora district according to the needs for which the dam is used? Is there an uncontrolled release of Koprinka dam and what are the reasons for this? What is the state of the wells providing the drinking water of Stara Zagora? Is there a danger of introducing a regime in the area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u164	Thank you, Mr. Tanev. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u165	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My answer is very long, but I will start first with what I personally want to say. In Stara Zagora problems with water supply from the wells in Kazanlashko, which are between the Stara Planina Mountain and the terrace of the Tundzha River, there is none. They change levels, but it's okay. This is thanks to the reasonable resize when they constructed this entire water supply system. It goes parallel to the channel that goes for Stara Zagora. We'll hang the whole dam if we have to, but you'll still have water, but you never have to, and you won't have to. All the water in the wells to dry up, Stara Zagora is measured very well. Personally, as long as engineer Rumen Raykov runs the sector and maintains the system, I'm sure you won't have a problem there. Specifically, your answer. Koprinka Reservoir is a one-year equalizer with a volume of 142. By September 16th, the volume is 19, but it is irrelevant to the water supply of the town of Stara Zagora. It serves for energy, for irrigation for industrial purposes, but does not serve for irrigation. If we have to turn it on, it won't run out of water. According to the permits issued under the Water Act under the scheme, water for irrigation for industrial water supply is directed to the Maritsa River and can be processed by hydroelectric power plants "Koprinka" and "Stara Zagora" hydropower. Part of the water processed by hydroelectric power station Koprinka is headed for the watering of the Tundzha river, unfortunately, a small part. This year we will administratively redirect the water from Tundja to continue for the most part on Tundja and not to go down to Maritsa. With a volume available at the present time and while maintaining the trend of minimal influx to it, because in the whole country is drought, but only for some political parties is not drought and the dams should always be full....the water supply to the main users of water from Koprinka dam will be disrupted. This isn't the drinking-bit, as I told you, it's the irrigation and the energy. In this case, action will be taken to reduce industrial water supply in order to accumulate water to ensure the priority objective of water irrigation. With continuing drying, water for irrigation will also be reduced. Given the low volume, the Ministry of Environment and Water has informed the holders of the permits for use of aquaculture sites because you cannot remove water for irrigation, water for irrigation, water for energy and finally say: I want the dam to be full and the fish to be able to develop safely in it. It can't be a full dam, they can't move into the emergency area. They also have their claims. No uncontrolled water is leaked from the dam. It's all on an authorized schedule, but it's been missing for 15 years in the wrong direction. Some of the power plants will have to stop. During high water, the waves are processed by hydroelectric power plants Koprinka. Some of them are released in the direction of the Tundzha River, and are accumulated from the reservoir of Zhrebchevo, or what the constructors have thought of a dam of Tundja, and the water to continue along Tundja to the next dam, because they are: Yambol, Sliven, Elhovo, Nova Zagora. They also have needs, they also have wells, they have to feed. In the terrace of the Tundzha River are built three water supply groups with a total number of 55 waterfalls. The water from them is taken to the Pumping Station of the Strawberry Station and through pumps of the first and second steps is transferred to the Stara Zagora direction. That's why you're independent and reassigned. Between August 15th and September 10th, the Ministry of Environment and Waters carried out an inspection of the two water supply groups.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. An increase in the momentary dynamic level has been found thanks to the timely measures taken. When checking the wells of the Zimnitsa group, the left and right terrace of the river, the moment dynamic level in them is 4 m below the ground. The waterfall is performed by only four wells from the left terrace, one from the right.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u166	Get it over with, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u167	The second checked group is Ruzhena, 11 shaft wells. During the inspection, water capture of all wells is carried out and the instantaneous dynamic water level is 6 m below the ground. The Ministry of Environment and Water did not receive any signals concerning the activities of the Ministry of Environment and Water, about the problems with the water supply. We're monitoring the levels. They'll notify us in a timely manner. We don't have any signals, we don't have a crisis situation, we don't have a problem with Stara Zagora's power supply. As long as Rumen Raykov is in charge of the process, you won't have any problems, because it was very correctly invented years ago how to do everything.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u168	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Do you have a line? You don't. Thank you. We move on to the next question, which is again from Radostin Tanev, concerning pesticide storage sites in the village of Yavorovo, the village of Elhovo and the village of Ploska mound on the territory of Stara Zagora region. Mr. Tanev, I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u169	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, again in relation to the situation used by some of my colleagues about what is happening in Stara Zagora, in order not to worry, are my next few questions about pesticide storage sites in the village of Yavorovo, the village of Elhovo and the village of Ploska mound on the territory of Stara Zagora district. How and when are pesticide storage sites created in the village of Yavorovo, the village of Elhovo and the village of Ploska mound? What are the quantities found and what is the procedure that the Ministry of Environment and Water follows for their destruction? Where and under what circumstances will pesticides be disposed of? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u170	Thank you, Mr. Tanev. Here you are, Mr. Secretary. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u171	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Tanev, in the village of Yavorovo there are two warehouses available for storage of obsolete pesticides. Both are outside the settlement and are in the territory of the former TTZS. There are no living people to confirm when it is, what it is, and how it happened. It's too long ago. There from several villages around are collected pesticides and placed in these two warehouses. The condition was tragic. One had no tiles and no roof, the others were buried in the ground. The warehouse in the village of Elhovo is located outside the territory of the village, near a farmyard. In the village of Ploska mound the warehouse is located within the boundaries of the farmyard. The problem with pesticides arises with the disruption of the TTZS and the APCs in the early 1990s, so in most cases, the end-of-life pesticides are located within farmyards or in the respective settlements where plant protection preparations were. Specific information on when and how end-of-life pesticide storage warehouses have been created is not available. There hasn't been a lot of places, and you don't even know the amount, it's predictable, it's informative. In the implementation of the national policy for environmental protection and sustainable management of waste "Nature 2015 " 2019" project "Ecological disposal of obsolete pesticides and other plant protection products with expired expiry date" was implemented, funded by the Bulgarian-Swiss Cooperation Programme. In the implementation of this programme in the territory of France, Switzerland, Germany and Belgium, it has always been abroad, 3845 which are unfit for use pesticides and 70 warehouses have been cleaned. Repacked and exported quantities of pesticides, as follows, in response to your question: Yavorovo village, 24 t 723 kg; Elhovo village, 19 t 307 kg; for Ploska Mogila village, 3 t 223 kg. The procedure followed for the destruction of pesticides and other preparations is: disclosure, repackaging transport of a regulated storage place, issuing a notification of cross-border transport and final disposal in a Member State of the European Union. In accordance with a provision of the Supreme Administrative Prosecutor's Office of 29 July "the Minister's order has been issued so far, 225 warehouses have been checked, 37 of them have been identified as high-risk and we are clearing them one by one. Cleaned warehouses so far are: Koynare, Radomirtsi, Cherven briag, two warehouses in Yavorovo, Chirpan municipality, Elhovo, Flat mound, Belymel, Montana. Warehouses are opened in Vidinsko, Varna, yesterday. 24 items. Waste will be transported to disposal facilities abroad. I want to say something else that has a direct bearing on pesticides, but so far it has not been taken into account. Many years ago, the mistake was that pesticides should not be exported and disposed of, but repacked, moved into concrete containers, 4 tonnes of pesticides, 6 tonnes of containers. At the moment, in each container there are 10 tonnes of pesticides, because they need to be defused all of them. 2012 concrete container in the country. Each one of them is already 10 items. Sometime after a time, they should be defused, and for the same money they could have gone abroad and come to their final disposal, as is the Stockholm Convention. These containers have a 50-year warranty on the 15th year. In time, this whole exercise to destroy them instead of moving them into concrete containers will cost 160 million today. I don't know who that minister will be, who once gave money, he'll have to give it a second time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u172	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Tanev, you're entitled to a line. You will not take this right. Thank you. We are moving on to questions to the Minister of Economy Mr. Lachezar Borisov. A question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov about the future of the "Shitishte Stara Zagora" EAD. Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u173	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, my question is, as the President said, about the future of Stara Zagora Airport. The theme for Stara Zagora airport excites the Old Zagora public for more than 30 years from the changes. Although the property is not municipal, at the beginning of the year the Municipal Administration of Stara Zagora showed surprisingly great activity for its final liquidation. At a meeting of the Municipal Council, Stara Zagora, a proposal was submitted by the mayor of the municipality on the agenda to make changes to the General Planning Plan, providing for a change of the construction area and the parcelling of the entire territory of the former airport with an area of just over 2100 acres. The proposal was subsequently withdrawn. After a number of initiatives and actions of the Stara Zagoras, of prominent experts in the field of urban planning, of civil organisations, of political parties, of their units in Stara Zagora, to preserve and rescue from destruction and plundering of the Stara Zagora airport, Mr. Todorov said in the local media on 15 June 2020 that, quote: "There will be no change in the purpose of the airport. Therefore, the intention to place another industrial area without sight and justification for its actual application at the place of the former airport is called into question. I just want to point out that a number of changes have taken place since then, because this is the situation of June. There was again a request to move to the Industrial Zone and so on. In this regard, my question is: will you listen to the voice of Stara Zagoras, Mr. Minister? Will you change your mind about the future of Stara Zagora Airport? Will you propose a compromise that will satisfy the inhabitants of Stara Zagora and the area in line with the realities at present and in accordance with the interests of the region?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u174	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u175	Just one more sentence, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, the question of Stara Zagora Airport is so large that we will hardly run out of it, but we will continue the conversation on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u176	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Mr. Secretary, come in. Three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u177	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, the topic with Stara Zagora airport is really old but also extremely relevant at the moment, so thank you for the question and for this discussion opening up again. Discussion and seeking consensus and a common solution is important. It is important, both in terms of the Ministry of Economy and in terms of this decision to be taken together with you, of course, with the local authorities and with society. Whatever the idea of the Ministry of Economy for the future development of the airport, it cannot be taken without the public and local authorities, because at least all urban procedures must be made in the municipality. With regard to the integrity of the airport. Here I would like to stress and recall that in recent years, the Ministry of Economy has done just that by means of several restructurings we have managed to unite all the assets that are in this territory, and you are right over 2100 decares. In fact, there are very few such valuable assets in Bulgaria, so overcrowded that have potential for development that is one of them. And through these restructurings, we managed a property from the Ministry of Defence, at the second stage, a second property from the Ministry of Defence, and at the third stage, which was actually the first, to regroup the track along with the relevant assets that were led as facilities in a commercial company to the Ministry of Transport. So this integrity is now realized and has it. Regarding the future for the development of this asset as an airport, I can emphasise that just before the crisis, we, as the Ministry of Economy, did a very detailed analysis with a very detailed presentation that we provided to the Minister of Transport. And to one of the international companies in this field the asset was presented, but such interest was not realised subsequently. This has been done many times before. As regards the expert assessment of the future of the airport, this assessment is based on a number of factors. However, in a very brief way, the proximity of the existing airports Plovdiv and Burgas should be taken into account, which restrict the potential for the development of such an object. This potential is also limited by the fact that the first analyses indicated that in order to have a genuinely developed airport, there must be another runway in the direction of private properties that are very fragmented. The aerodrome facilities are currently in a very poor operating condition. Returning a little further back in time, after the changes that occurred in the 1990s, the flights were finally terminated and in 2007 the former Stara Zagora airport was finally closed, taking all the documents away from him. The projects developed so far for the development of the airport and on the basis of all the talks conducted do not give us confidence that there is a great potential for the development of this asset as an airport. It is precisely because of this that the Ministry of Economy is looking for this compromise option, which you have said, while maintaining, possibly, on the track, to build an extensive economic zone, which will, of course, then contribute to solving the problems in the Marishka Basin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u178	Thank you, Mr. Borisov. Mr. Gokov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u179	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I have told you that the subject is extremely extensive and it is difficult to point people in the direction of solving the issue at all. Before I go further, I would like to thank you for your understanding of Stara Zagora, because the future of Stara Zagora airport is directly linked to the future of Stara Zagora in the context of the fact that there are very serious signs and signals that the Mini Maritsa East complex will not be in the same condition and with the same capacity that it currently has. Stara Zagoras see in this collected large area an opportunity to do something to give the future security to the inhabitants of Stara Zagora economically, if you will, and financially. They do not exclude the possibility that, when an investment is made, it may have flight requirements on its part. I also have a few further questions: why was it decided by an independent trading company with a small profit to enter the State consolidation company, where it would surely be at a loss, at least because of the maintenance of the buildings and so on? Did you know that Stara Zagora has an initiative committee to rescue the airport? Does the construction of a modern industrial area include the destruction of the possibility of restoring airport operations in the future? As a new minister, you have the hope. I have several no recommendations, wishes if you could take them into consideration: to get acquainted with the history and history of Stara Zagora airport; to meet with the municipal administration, but also with the committee of call, the two parties to the future of the airport; to review the participation of Stara Zagora airport in the State consolidation company. I'm not saying that we need to get out of there, but to review why it's right there, to explain to the Stara Zagoras, because they perceive this presence at the airport at the State Consolidated Company as if someone wants to take away their airport. Do you understand what this is about?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u180	Get it over with, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u181	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. And the last one, I ask you not to make decisions for Stara Zagora Airport without the municipal administration, but also without the public of the city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u182	Thank you, however, for pouring three or four questions here, for which I do not know how prepared the Minister is. If he's prepared and willing, he may answer. He's entitled to the duvet. This is not a question I am explaining to people who are not aware of the Rules, but a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u183	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Gokov, in the structure of the Ministry of Economy there are two holding companies - one is the State consolidation company, the other is the National Company Industrial Zones. As I said at the very beginning of the exhibition, we will look for a common consensus with the local authorities and the initiative committee to find the best solution for the future of Stara Zagora. You also mentioned the problems in the Marishka pool. We also believe that this is an exceptional potential to use this asset. The assessments that we have made on the occasion of specific investment interests: the asset is located near the highway, on the central road now there will be a circular next to the asset, close to the electrical infrastructure, with industrial water supply capabilities that has been explored and close to the railway infrastructure. These are some of those factors that really large strategic investors, which create high levels of added value, expect. Thus, we can respond to the interest of such a potential investor, and it is not impossible to maintain the runway and some of the investors operating in this territory to use this facility in their economic activity. I take the commitment that through the State Consolidated Company, which is currently the owner, Stara Zagoras will not lose this asset, the state will not lose it. On the contrary, we are working on a model in which to create a potential for development. The commercial company, which owned only the track as a facility and part of the buildings, was incorporated into the State consolidation company with a view to optimising costs. All these possible revenues that have entered it now fall into the State Consolidated Company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-18.u184	Thank you, Mr. Borisov. That's what we're running out of agenda. I thank all MPs who have respected parliamentary control. The next meeting of the National Assembly will be on 23 September 2020 at 13.00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
