ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u1	Good afternoon, fellow Members. We have 121 MPs in the Chamber. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Invite BSP and DPS to enter the room. [[Radio and laughter.]] Colleagues, we start with the first point for today: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR PUBLICS. Importers "Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs, on 9 October 2020, adopted at the first vote on 23 October 2020. Who's gonna introduce us to the report? Mr. Kanev, come in. Let's congratulate Mr. Kanev, who graced us with his presence. [[Radio.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u2	In addition, the Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and that they constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. The Act for amendment of the Law on Public Enterprises (prom., SG No. ...)??...................................................................... The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u3	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the Law. They voted 125 MPs: for " 117," against "no," abstentioned "8." The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u4	It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. There is a proposal from the MPs Hristo Prodanov, Petar Kanev and Ivo Hristov will read it as it is not supported: In paragraph one in the new content of para. 4 the words "sixteen months' shall be replaced by "six months'. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of paragraph only, which shall become § 1: ................................................................................... In § 3 para. 4 of the Transitional and Final Provisions are amended as follows: . (4) Within 16 months of the entry into force of the law, the compositions of public undertakings' management and control bodies shall be aligned with its requirements.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u5	Thank you. Statements, coworkers? Mr. Prodanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u6	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! In essence, our proposal aims to increase the period within which the Law on the Selection of the Managing Authorities of Public Enterprises is to be implemented. The aim of the extended deadline that we propose is for the Commission to the Agency for Privatization and Post-Privatization Control by its new name Commission for Public Enterprises Control to have enough time to really hold a genuine, valuable competition in which professionals should be selected to manage, rather than draining public undertakings and public undertakings not to be used for our well-known onboarders and party feeders. It is obvious, at least in the Commission, you rejected this proposal from which it is visible and it becomes evident that you are in a hurry and want between Christmas and New Year's Eve in a well-known old way to appoint well-known old boarders. In such a case, colleagues, do not be surprised by news relating to public undertakings that the director of Where are they? Apparently stolen. Or news of the kind...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u7	Please, Mr. Prodanov, get back to the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u8	I'm right back on the subject, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u9	No, no. That's pretty far away.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u10	We're discussing the point of public enterprise, aren't we?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u11	Yes, I am aware that I have listened carefully to your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u12	I'm talking about them right now, aren't I? [[Heckling]] Or news like the state-owned forestry company bought SUVs so that they could...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u13	Mr. Prodanov, the essence of the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u14	...rich tourists to use them for hunting, and two days later these SUVs to find themselves in the garage of the National Security Service and to be used...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u15	Mr. Prodanov, I will be forced to take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u16	...by Prime Minister Boyko Borisov to hunt voters.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u17	You're really deviating from the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u18	So, honourable Members, support this proposal of ours and once and for all break up with this vicious practice of appointing party ladybugs so that state-owned enterprises can get well and work as they should. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u19	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u20	Colleagues, I'm going to try very calmly, without emotions, to explain why you're wrong about not accepting our proposal. I had an argument with Mrs Daritkova. You know that out of 16 requirements of the European Commission for our accession to the Eurozone, rather for entering the ERM-II, there are finally two left. The old, old pain of how the state sector is managed in Bulgaria, party feeders with the drivers are wonderful, that this topic in Europe is well known and commented. The issue of the bank is resolved, the issue of the law is resolved. It happened that much later the Rules were adopted. It turns out that in the next four months, one has already expired, there are three months left from publication until the end of these three months that remain, you have November, December and part of January, Christmas and New Year. Understand, I have a feeling that the more the elections come, the more with you those who are in charge of the common sense take over the healthy forces. Please accept it, take these 12 months we give to you. Because it will turn out that in January and February we will still have to get together and increase the deadlines again. I'm telling you the most logical and reasonable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u21	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal of the MPs Hristo Prodanov, Petar Kanev and Ivo Hristov. They voted 164 MPs: for "67," against "19," abstentions "78." The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u22	It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u23	Revoting Mr. Popov, please, from the stands!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u24	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I ask for a re-voting procedure is indeed an extremely important point and with the reasons that Mr. Kanev shared with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u25	Thank you, Mr. Popov. We're going over the offer. Vote 162 Members of Parliament: for " 67," against "27," abstentions "68." The offer is not accepted. I will put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of the Paragraph only which becomes § 1. They voted 161 Members of Parliament: for the supposed against The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u26	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that the name be amended as follows: The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1, which shall become § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u27	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the Commission to change the name of the subdivision, as well as the text of the importer for § 1, which shall become § 2. Vote 162 MPs: for The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u28	Let's get on with it. the next item of our Work Programme: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR MEASURES AND ACTIONS ON THE TIME OF EXEMPTION, NOTIFICED BY THE DECISION OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION OF 13 MARCH 2020 AND ON THE REFUNDING OF THE SUCCESSIONS. Importer "Krasimir Tsipov" and group of MPs. Mr. Nunev, you have the floor to present the Internal Security and Public Order Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I am making a procedural proposal for admission in the hall of Mr. Milko Bernev
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u30	Thank you. I shall put the proposal to the vote. Vote 153 MPs: for 145, against 1, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Please invite Mr. Bernev and Mr. Panchev to the hall. Please continue with the presentation of the report, Mr. Nunev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u31	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020 and for overcoming the consequences, No 054-01-98, submitted by Krasimir Georgiev Tzipov and a group of MPs on 22 October 2020. At its regular meeting held on 28 October 2020, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020 and to overcome the consequences, No 054-01-98, introduced by Krasimir Tsipov and a group of pesos. representatives on 22 October 2020 The meeting was attended by Mr. Tsvetomir Panchev, Head of the Legal Service sector and administrative coercion measures, Directorate of the Bulgarian Identity Documents at the Ministry of Interior, and Mrs. Vangelija Terziyska, Chief Legal Consult at the Directorate of Migration of the Ministry of Interior. The bill was presented by the MP Krasimir Tsipov. Mr. Tzipov informed the Commission that, by the end of 2020, and at the beginning of 2021, a large number of personal documents were to expire and their mass replacement was to be replaced accordingly. The ID card is a key identification document, which means that a large number of Bulgarian citizens will have to replace their ID cards during the winter months and in the possible action of an emergency epidemic situation. The increased number of people willing to submit an application for an ID card and/or passport in the departments of the Ministry of Interior's Bulgarian identity documents will greatly hamper compliance with the anti-epidemic measures ordered by the Minister of Health. Complication of the epidemic situation in the country caused by the COVID-19 determines the need to take legislative measures to extend the validity of ID cards in order to limit the accumulation of people. In this regard, an amendment and an addition to Paragraph 10 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law on Measures and Actions during the emergency situation, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020 and to address the consequences, is proposed. With § 10, para. 2 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency Situation was extended the period of validity of ID cards by 6 months, which expire from 13 March 2020 to 31 October 2020, providing that for the extension period the ID card is valid identification document only in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. In this sense, from the scope of § 10 the Bulgarian citizens located abroad, whose period of validity of the ID card expires in that period were excluded. It should be noted that there is no equivalent provision of § 10, para. 2 regarding Bulgarian passports. Taking into account the fact that there are a small number of Bulgarian citizens abroad whose identity documents expire or have already expired in that period and who, in the context of a complicated world environment, are greatly difficult to renew, should also be created equal opportunities and facilitations with regard to the extended validity provided for Bulgarian citizens in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. It is also proposed that an amendment, in the conditions of reciprocity of Bulgarian citizens holding a passport and/or an extended identity card, be granted the right to leave the country to which they reside in order to return to the Republic of Bulgaria and to foreign nationals holding a travel document with extended validity, will be granted the right to leave the Republic of Bulgaria in order to return to the country of final destination in the context of a global pandemic of COVID-19. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs informed that 48 countries have expressed their readiness to miss Bulgarian citizens with expired documents to return to the Republic of Bulgaria under reciprocity. In this regard, the present draft is proposed to amend and supplement § 10 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law on Measures and Actions during the emergency situation, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, providing that during a declared emergency situation or an emergency epidemic situation and under the conditions of reciprocity, a foreigner who has entered the territory of the country may leave the Republic of Bulgaria through the crossing point within the period for which the country which issued the passport or identity card for citizens of the European Union has notified the Republic of Bulgaria that its validity has been extended, and provided that it is ensured that the foreigner is transit to the country of his final destination. This proposal is also in line with the European Commission's call for a uniform approach to implement the automatic extension of travel documents approved by some Member States by the European Union. The Transitional and Final Provisions of the Draft Law propose amendments to the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility. The employment agency's practice shows that the lack of understanding of what is proposed in art. 8, para. 2, p. 3 category of employed foreigners leads to practical problems and to the imposition of forced administrative measures by the Executive Agency. The adoption of the bill will not affect the budget of the competent authorities, but will create conditions for easing the procedures for issuing identity documents, as well as for complying with the anti-epidemic measures ordered by the Ministry of Health. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results, 18 votes for the Council, without the votes against the Council and abstention, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt, at the first vote, a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020 and to overcome the consequences, No 054-01-98, submitted by Krasimir Georgiev Tzipov and a group of MPs on 22 October 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u32	Thank you, dear Mr. Nunev. We continue with the Report of the Committee on Legal Affairs. You have the floor, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020 and for overcoming the consequences, No 054-01-98, submitted by Krasimir Georgiev Tzipov and a group of MPs on 22 October 2020. At its meeting held on 28 October 2020, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency Situation, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020 and to overcome the consequences, No 054-01-98, submitted by Krasimir Georgiev Tzipov and a group of MPs on 22 October 2020. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Internal Affairs: Mr. Tsvetomir Panchev. The bill was presented by the National Representative Krasimir Tzipov, who pointed out that it proposed an extension of the period within which the leaking personal documents would be recognized as a valid identification document and added that the proposal was dictated by the ongoing epidemic situation in the country. He noted that the period of validity of a large number of personal documents expires at the end of 2020 and the beginning of 2021, suggesting their mass replacement and therefore difficulties in complying with the anti-epidemic measures introduced. The bill allows Bulgarian citizens, whose passports and ID cards are extended, to be able to leave the country where they reside and return to Bulgaria under a pandemic of CIVID-19. It is envisaged that a foreigner who has entered the territory of the country under the legal order will be able to leave the Republic of Bulgaria within the extended period of validity of the identity document and provided that he is granted transit to the State of his final destination. Mr. Tzipov noted that 48 countries have so far expressed their readiness to miss Bulgarian citizens with expired documents to return to the Republic of Bulgaria, but under the conditions of reciprocity. The draft law also proposes amendments to the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility in order to clarify the procedures for controlling access to the labour market, implemented by the Executive Agency. Mr. Panchev pointed out that the Ministry of Interior supports the proposed bill, as it will contribute to facilitating administrative activity in the conditions of a pandemic. It has been noted that the proposed amendments to the Labour Migration and Labour Mobility Act need a wider discussion with employers' organisations. The People's Representative Todor Bajchev took part in the discussion of the Bill, who said he would support the proposed bill, as it is timely and appropriate, but disagreed with the envisaged possibility for foreign citizens to access the labour market in Bulgaria. After the vote, the Committee on Legal Issues with 18 votes for the Council, without votes, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency Situation, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020 and to overcome the consequences, No 054-01-98, submitted by Krasimir Georgiev Tsipov and a group of narrators on 22 October 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u34	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. Mr. Tzipov, will there be an importer's opinion?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u35	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u36	I'm opening the debate, colleagues. You have the floor to speak. I don't see anyone who wants to. I will put to the vote the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Measures and Actions during the state of emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020 and to overcome the consequences, with an importer the national representative Krasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs. They voted 141 MPs: 141, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Mr. Nunev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, I am doing a procedure under the so-called bill.. The term between the first and second votes shall be four days.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u38	Thank you. I shall put the proposal to the vote. They voted 142 MPs: 132, against 3, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Dear Members of Parliament, we will continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. While Minister Sacheva takes her place, I will introduce you to the new questions for the period from 23 to 29 October 2020: A question has been received from the MP Georgi Svilenski and the MPs Manol Genov and Dimitar Danchev to Petya Avramova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, on the reform of the road toll policy. The response should be made in the plenary sitting on 6 November 2020. A question was received from the MP Pavel Shopov to Petya Avramova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, about the results and the future policy related to the system introduced in the country. The response should be made in the plenary sitting on 6 November 2020. While we wait for Minister Sacheva, I will give you the written answers. Written response from: - Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev on a question from the MPs Dimitar Danchev and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov. - Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy and Tourism Minister Mariana Nikolova on five issues from the MP Hristo Prodanov. - Minister of Finance Kiril Ananiev on a question from the National Representative Teodora Halacheva. - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Teodora Halacheva. - Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov on a question from the MPs Manol Genov and Veska Nencheva. - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov. - Minister of Interior Hristo Terziyski on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov. - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov. - Minister of Interior Hristo Terziyski on a question from the National Representative Nikola Dinkov. - Minister of Culture Boel Banov on a question from the National Representative Ahmed Ahmed Ahmedov. Colleagues, we will stop work for five minutes until Minister Sacheva enters the Chamber and resume our work after its entry. Thank you. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u39	We continue our work with discussions on the questions by the MPs Georgi Gokov, Vesela Lecheva, Violeta Jeleva, Milko Nedyalkov, Nadia Klisurska-Zekova and Polina Shishkova to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva on the policy of improving the adequacy of pensions in Bulgaria in the short and long term. As I have announced, the debate is a result of a question. Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is the way I conduct myself. On 14 October 2020, I, colleague Dimitar Danchev and Manol Genov asked Mrs Petya Avramova a written question. Two weeks have passed for this answer, Mr. Chairman, and by regulations and by law, the state must respond. Today, I understand that the management of the National Assembly or the Council of Ministers has decided that the ministers will not work until the end of the quarantine. Only yesterday both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Economy explained that the administration has not stopped working, that they work from home, everything is signed and it is inexplicable why Mrs. Avramova... So it's understandable because we're asking for five billion public resources given to highways and distributed to I don't know who you are. This question Mrs. Avramova will not be able to hide it, Kovid the crisis will not be able to hide Mrs. Avramova, it will become clear where the money is. Don't hide the ministers, Mr. Chairman! Kovid's crisis is a kind of crisis, but they work from home, they can sign. She didn't stop working, did she?! Doesn't the state work despite the conditions and despite the crisis?! You hide behind a kind of crisis, hide ministers who don't come here to answer. Okay, you can't here, but the questions are written, the questions are not lips, and you can go and sign them and answer them in due time. Mr. Chairman, my procedure is with you. Please order ministers who have written answers to questions asked by MPs to fulfil their constitutional obligations. Nowhere in the Constitution does it say that the Minister must not answer within the term of the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u41	Thank you. I'm looking now, but I think I've met Mrs. Avramova's name and there's a reason to delay. We continue with discussions on the questions by the MPs Georgi Gokov, Vesela Lecheva, Violeta Jeleva, Milko Nedyalkov, Nadia Klisurska-Zekova and Polina Shishkova to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva on the policy of improving the adequacy of pensions in Bulgaria in the short and long term. At the meeting on 23 October 2020, Friday, at the same meeting, 51 MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria have submitted proposals for discussions on the questioning together with the draft decision. The debates are scheduled by the President of the National Assembly for the next parliamentary control meeting. The proposal for a debate on the Question and the draft decision were sent to the Members of the National Assembly in electronic form on 23 October 2020. A second draft for a decision by eight MPs from the political party GERB parliamentary group on 29 October 2020, Thursday, and the same day was sent to the MPs in electronic form, meaning we have two drafts for a solution. I will remind the distribution of the time: a parliamentary group of the political party GERB Who will present it on behalf of the importers? Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u42	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Unfortunately, the level and dynamics of incomes in recent years in Bulgaria has shown us that this government, which governs and the previous governments with the mandate of GERB, are not able to get the country out of the last place in the income policy in the European Union "Bulgaria remains with the lowest standard of living and income level in Europe." After more than 10 years of management of GERB, although there is some growth in incomes, they still remain relatively low, and at times compared to the average for the countries of the European Union. After 10 years of management of GERB and countless promises and management commitments to income policy, there are insurmountable challenges. The low level of income, accompanied by a serious decline in purchasing power, the deepening inequalities, the lack of fair and effective social protection of the poor do not allow the Bulgarian to live normally and feel full, not second-hand European citizen. The elderly people, the pensioners in Bulgaria are the most threatened by poverty, social exclusion and material difficulties insofar as pensions are the main source of income for them, no one can argue that there is the biggest failure of government in income policy. Our pension system faces a double challenge to remain stable and financially sustainable and be able to provide adequate income after retirement. After the year 2000, when under the pressure of the World Bank, the famous pension reform was carried out and nowhere was introduced the unspoken advantages of a three-sphere model, there are no adequate policies and solutions on these challenges. While the other governments of Bulgaria by various means were trying to give where more successful and where less successful solutions, in the last more than 10 years of GERB management there is no hint to ensure the adequacy of pensions. During the first management of GERB Borisov 1 cabinet with Finance Minister Simeon Djankov, it even came to conscious and frank violation of the Bulgarian legislation. For three consecutive years the pensions of all Bulgarian pensioners have not been updated since 1 July according to art. 100 of the Social Security Code. The public was convinced that the pensioners ate the fiscal reserve, and this along with the outpourings for the bad human material, referring to the rest who live in Bulgaria, were the excuses and speaking of Boyko Borisov during his first term. According to my calculations, this failure to comply with the Bulgarian legislation deprived Bulgarian pensioners of an increase in their pensions between 12% and 20%. Other inadequate decisions followed at the expense of the insured persons alone, such as Kalfin's pension reform in the Borisov 2 cabinet, which authorized the growth of retirement age and retirement insurance service until reaching the age of 65 years. 40 years for men and 38 years for women, regardless of the low life expectancy in the country. This can only be assessed as cynicalism and vowing of working Bulgarians of inability to retire. And get to the last government of GERB.. Borisov 3. Social policy is filled with controversial and vaguely adopted policies and decisions, sometimes scandalous and challenging protests, but they have given this government reason to say that it has reformed the social sphere. Unfortunately, or rather for joy, despite the screaming need for changes and new policies, the pension system seemed to have been left aside. I will point out several decisions that take away insurance rights and a debate on joining the second pillar to the first, but the government did not have the courage to reach the end. In this debate, a policy was born which I find appropriate and compromise to enable anyone who wishes to transfer the accumulated funds into his personal account of the second pillar into the first pillar, but only that much. However, here is also the typical chaos we give the opportunity to make a choice, but we deprive people of information, because to this day the legislator has not spoken what will be the methodology by which the pensions from the second pillar will be calculated and paid. Minister Sacheva, on the first days when taking office, promised to resolve pending issues on the second pillar, including the reduction rate of the first pension. It's been a long time, there's no solution. Whether she's the only one who's responsible for this is not important. To reach today at the end of her term, when, under the influence of upcoming parliamentary elections and in the procedure of adopting the last budget of this majority, serious media noise was raised in the public domain, initially on the occasion of social measures relating to the crown crisis and subsequently on the size of social payments in the context of the budget. This noise left hope in current and future pensioners that they are thought of, and finally, after 10 years of management of GERB, there will be a solution in their favor. But alas, the budget parameters came out and it became clear that once again the expectations were in vain and even at the end of the term, despite the noisy applications, the pensioner's income policy will not change. And the challenges and changes to the pension system and in the next and subsequent years will not only remain the same, but will deepen. There is no vision and solution for the financial sustainability and stability of the social security system and, in particular, of the Pension Fund. There is also no vision on how to start solving the problem of providing adequate income for the elderly. The adequacy of a pension is determined by its ability to prevent poverty, is determined by the extent to which it replaces income from work, and by the time it is obtained. In 2016, this period in Bulgaria was 16.5 years old and, of course, is the shortest compared to the member states of the European Union. By comparison, it's only 24,5 years in France. Today, with an increase in retirement age in Bulgaria, the situation must be even worse. In the policies that GERB follows, managing the state, there is no solution to increase the adequacy of pensions, in this term too. And with the latest decisions around the budget for 2021, the tradition has been confirmed - nothing for pensioners and an increase in the chaos in the pension system. Because it's 300 leva. minimum pension and BGN 1440 the maximum increase of both 20% and from January 1st, and to all others by 5%, and only since July 1st, when they are repeatedly melted by inflation, does not prevent the poverty of more and more Bulgarians, nor improves the overall coefficient of replacement of income from labor. However, it is certain that by raising the minimum pension by 20% without rules and without regard to the insurance contribution, it demotivates people of working age to provide themselves, but it buys votes. Again, there will be no recalculation of pensions. Under this policy, pensions will replace an increasing proportion of people's incomes and again the poor will become poorer and the rich will become richer. Mrs. Sacheva the Social Minister in this government said: better economic indicators are needed to recalculate pensions with newer incomes. In a year where we do not expect very good revenue, because we will still have economic turmoil, there is no way that this will happen. Only that Mrs. Sacheva did not explain why this has not happened so far in the management of GERB, when there were no economic turmoil and there were better revenues and better economic indicators. He didn't explain, since we're going into deficit and borrowing to make up for the lack of good enough revenue, how come they didn't put some money aside for the pensioners?! And something else interesting said Minister Sacheva: achieving absolute justice in the pension system is almost unattainable challenge because of the fact that there are people who have retired under different conditions and rules. Yes, it is true, and no one expects absolute justice, but at least some simple must be there. Because although retired under different conditions and rules, people with the same social contribution, although retired at different times, cannot have a difference in pensions at times more. It is not normal not to do anything about it and to hide behind empty phrases that absolute justice does not exist. And delaying reforms in the pension system and decisions on the adequacy of pensions and its financial stability will cost more and more. The same applies to overcoming the huge differences between old pensions and those in new times. Therefore, as governors, you must stop wandering and state a vision and a solution so that the Bulgarians know what awaits them and we with today's debates and with the proposals for a solution help you in this direction. The growing ageing of the population in the coming decades reduces the opportunities to achieve the levels of pensions that we can call adequate. People of working age will decrease as a result of the demographic catastrophe, and life expectancy will also increase. This will impose new adjustments to pension policies, and not only in the direction of.. we will take these and give to those. We need a long-term consensus vision relating to the achievement of the basic objectives of pension provision a vision reflecting the realities and developed in the context of tackling the challenge of ageing and making it possible by extending employment life, but not by mechanical lifting of retirement age; developing opportunities for additional pensions and ensuring access to adequate social protection, including pensions, in the context of promoting active ageing as a basis for solidarity between generations and the unused potential of elderly people, in the context of ensuring adequate and sustainable long-term care for our ageing society, in general, in the context of the overall strategy for active ageing. Bulgarian citizens need to know that there is a solution, there is an alternative. BSP has a vision for pension policy and reforms, including solutions to ensure adequate income for the elderly in the context of guaranteeing financial sustainability in the pension system. And when the people vote their trust in BSP to govern Bulgaria, we will make these decisions consensus because they will be acceptable to society. Then these decisions will be a fact, there will be a recalculation in a fair way to close the scissors between the size of the old pensions granted years ago and the new ones granted now. Why don't we start with the consensus from today? Driven by the idea that pension policy and pensions policies in general have a significant impact on public budgets and labour supply and the belief that the main objectives of the pension system in Bulgaria should be to protect the elderly from poverty and to provide them with a decent standard of living and economic independence when they grow old and, at the same time, to preserve the financial sustainability of the same pension system, on the grounds of art. 90, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, we propose to the National Assembly to adopt the following after debates: ?? RESPONSIBILITY: Instructs the Minister of Labour and Social Policy to submit to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy in the National Assembly by 15 November 2020: 1. A comprehensive vision in the short and long term for pension policy and reforms in the context of ensuring adequate income for the elderly in the context of ensuring financial sustainability in the pension system. 2. Methodology governing the pension phase of the second pillar of the pension system. I remain in the hope of a fruitful debate on this important topic for the Bulgarian society and please accept our proposal for a solution because there is no time to postpone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u43	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Mrs. Angelova, come in, you have the floor to present the draft decision received from you and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u44	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will present the decision from a group of MPs from GERB's parliamentary group in connection with a debate on questions from the MPs Georgi Gokov and a group of MPs from BSP to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva on the policy of improving the adequacy of pensions in Bulgaria in the short and long term. With the Draft Law on the Budget of State Social Security for 2021, which was approved by the Council of Ministers and submitted for discussion and adoption by the National Assembly, important steps have been taken to raise the incomes of all pensioners in the short term. Unlike previous years, when the minimum and maximum pension amounts have changed since 1 July, in 2021 their amounts will be increased from 1 January. Behind the proposed increase of the minimum amount of pension for internship and age from 250 to 300 BGN. Its size will rise by 20 percent. This leads to an increase in the minimum size and other pensions for employment, which are determined by a percentage of the total disability benefits, due to an accident or occupational disease, and inherited pensions. Also by 20 percent from 1 January 2021 the maximum amount of one or more pensions received is increased from BGN 1200. At BGN 1440. From 1 July 2021, all pensions relating to employment which have been allocated by the end of the previous year will be updated under the so-called Swiss rule by 5 percent. From that date, it is also intended to increase the amount of social pension for old age by 5 percent, which will lead to an increase in the size of other non-employment-related pensions. In 2020 in relation to the emergency situation due to the spread of COVID-19 as part of the government's socio-economic package, from August began monthly payment of additional amounts of 50 BGN. to the pensions of all pensioners. The objective of the funds provided is to provide support for more than 2 million. $100,000. pensioners as they are part of the most vulnerable group as a result of the spread of COVID-19. The draft Law on the Budget of State Social Security for 2021 provides for the payment of allowances to pensions of BGN 50. to continue in the first three months of 2021. As a result of these measures, the average amount of pension per pensioner in 2021 is set to reach BGN 488,97. in the case of an average amount of pension for 2020 The nominal increase is BGN 412,28, i.e. 18,6 per cent. The draft State Social Security Budget Act 2021 proposed a solution to another group of issues directly related to improving the adequacy of pensions not only in the short but also in the long term. Changes are proposed on how to determine the amount of reduction of the individual coefficient, when the individual is also provided in a universal pension fund, the so-called reduction. In determining the amount of the reduction, account will also be taken of the transfer from the state budget of 12 per cent to the sum of the insurance benefits of all insured persons for the period from 2009 to 2015, including, and account will be taken of the years of insurance service with and without insurance in a universal pension fund. In order to ensure the rights of all pensioners, it is also proposed that pensions granted with a reduced individual coefficient be recalculated, while recalculating the individual coefficient will apply the new reduction if this is more favourable to the pensioner. Given the missed opportunity of a large number of persons to change the provision by a universal pension fund in the Fund, the pension fund is proposed to be able to exercise that right from 1 January to 30 June 2021. In the same period, persons who have already been granted a pension without changing their insurance will be able to request that the pension fund be revalued without a reduction in the individual coefficient if they transfer their funds from the individual account to the universal pension fund to the Fund. With regard to the issue of the long-term policy for improving the adequacy and sustainability of the pension system, it is important to bear in mind that substantial changes were made in the Social Security Code in 2015, which were adopted by the National Assembly and on which a high level of consensus was reached. In this regard, it is not necessary to develop a comprehensive new vision for pension policy and reform, but to follow the measures already adopted in 2015 and to support the measures included in the Draft State Social Security Budget Act for 2021. In order to ensure a secure additional income to the basic pension, it is necessary to continue the work on improving the legal framework of supplementary pension provision. Given that the first pensions from the universal pension funds will be granted in September 2021, we propose that by the end of 2020, a draft law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code should be submitted to the National Assembly to regulate the payment phase of the supplementary compulsory pension insurance, the types of pension products, the way the funds are managed in the accumulation phase, the definition of pensions, their update, succession and the management of the capital adequacy of pension companies. I will present, Mr. Chairman, and our draft decision: Project! DECISION in connection with debates on questions No 054-05-42 of 14 October 2020 by the MPs Georgi Gokov, Vesela Lecheva, Violeta Jeleva, Milko Nedyalkov, Nadia Klisurska and Polina Shishkova to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva on the policy on improving the adequacy of pensions in Bulgaria in the short and long term The National Assembly on the basis of art. 90, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 105, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Instructs the Minister for Labour and Social Policy to take the necessary steps to develop a draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code to regulate the payment phase of the supplementary compulsory pension insurance. 2. By 31 December 2020, the bill under point (b) shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 to be submitted to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u45	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. I'm opening the debate. [[Replication by BSP for Bulgaria: "Declaration on behalf of a group! "]] Mrs. Ninova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u46	Thank you. Dear Bulgarian citizens, yesterday MPs from GERB, DPS, "United Patriarchs" and Volya adopted amendments to the Public Procurement Act. Usually there is talk in the Chamber of the National Assembly about what is in a law. This may sound different to you, but today, from our parliamentary group, we want to comment on what is not in this law. Let me remind you of a little chronology on the case we're making a statement about today. At the beginning of the year, in January, the former governor of the National Health Insurance Fund Dr. Dechev exported data on systematic damage of public funds from the Health Insurance Fund for the benefit of private interests. In particular, he then told the public that the Health Insurance Fund paid a private hospital seven times the price for the same medicine to the same producer compared to what is paid to public and municipal hospitals. We want to remind you why this is so. Because private hospitals were exempted from the obligation to tender for medicines. This happened in 2016 at the request of GERB MP Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs from GERB, as well as from the Reformation Bloc then, the Patriotic Front, ABB and DPS. Then they introduced a change in the Law, which freed private hospitals from the obligation to tender for medicines, and so it came to the situation this year at the beginning of 2020, to find out from the Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund that this change in the Law has led to this gigantic injustice with our total money to private hospitals to pay seven times more expensive medicines. What's next? The Council of Ministers in the face of the then Minister of Health Mr. Ananiev made a commitment to correct this injustice and to amend the Law to equalise the status of state and private hospitals. But something worse also happened because the European Commission has initiated proceedings against Bulgaria to violate the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and this procedure continues to this day. We understand that the European Commission warned the government of Borisov in January 2019 and now. So what? This week the Council of Ministers adopted such an amendment and levelled the status of state and private hospitals. And somewhere along the way between the Council of Ministers, from whose transcription it appears there is an amendment, and this House of the National Assembly, the amendment for private hospitals disappears from the Law! [[Radio.]] And yesterday, honourable MPs, apart from BSP, you voted on this law by once again giving private hospitals the opportunity to pay the same medicines at times more expensive than what you pay the state and the municipal. What's next? How many open questions are we putting before you today and the entire Bulgarian society? One: you have a constitutional problem. Of course, it is normal in Bulgaria and in the world to have both state and private property. And we're not against private hospitals. But the Constitution says that state and private property are equal, and you subtract private property from this equality and by law you create privileges for it. You have a constitutional problem, but you usually don't pay attention to these serious things that concern statehood. You have a European problem because if Bulgaria fails to comply with the recommendations of the European Commission and you do not make equal private and public hospitals when they spend public resources, the penalty procedure will continue. You know how it ends with financial sanctions against the country, and you know who pays them the Bulgarian people, not those MPs or this Council of Ministers who voted on this law. We pay all Bulgarian taxpayers. The third question we want to ask you is the question of lobbying. So someone between the Council of Ministers and the building of the National Assembly deleted the text in favor of private interests! Dear Bulgarians, four years ago, for the first time in the stands of the National Assembly, we delivered the sentence: "Corruption is already laid down in the Law by the Government of GERB! Corruption is no longer about giving and receiving bribes. They put her in the Law to make her unpunished. And here's the last vivid example of this in the Law seven times more expensive medicine for private hospitals compared to this same medicine in state and municipal! One more question: who did this? Who will be responsible for erasing this text at the last minute of the Public Procurement Act? You'll probably find someone guilty, but the responsibility must be borne by the government, because whoever allowed themselves to do so is not brave enough to do so without protection! Next question: will you not stop in a crisis, too, in a crisis where you say that new and new debts should be taken, because this is what Europe does because you have to provide social services? Will you continue to steal in crisis too, and in this crisis that has flooded the world, Europe and Bulgaria, and everyone is looking for solutions for economic growth and social services to save their peoples? Even at this moment, you have neither shame nor political responsibility for what you do! You suggest that the outcome of this situation is to raise taxes next year, for example, to have financial stability. No, that's not the way out. You don't have to raise taxes. This should be limited by the ten billion that run through corruption schemes, this money can enter the Bulgarian economy and the home of every Bulgarian, especially in this crisis! Someone come and answer: who changed this under whose pressure and with whose lobbying interest yesterday you all, except BSP, voted the amendment in the Public Procurement Act?! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. We continue with the item on the agenda. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Mrs. Lecheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u48	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, today's debate, the debates will be directed to the largest group of society, namely the Bulgarian pensioners, a large part of which is at risk of poverty. Our desire by BSP is the ruling coalition today to present to the Bulgarian public a comprehensive vision in the long term for pension policy. Today, what I have heard from your proposal for a decision is once again offering us a solution per piece. Once again, you are proposing solutions that distort and vitiate the existing pension model. We want the MPs to guarantee with our decisions a pension policy with the aim of ensuring a high standard of living; a pension policy based on predictability, sustainability and, above all, on trust from Bulgarian citizens. The reform, which started in 2000 with the aim of the pension to reach 70% of the incomes of the insured person after 10 years and more management of GERB, except that the trend is downward, each year you distance us from the stated goal. Just to remind you that at the beginning of your reign you neglected this vast part of the Bulgarian citizens by freezing their modest incomes completely unjustly and unwarrantedly. Today you offer 50 leva. to any pension that will cost the budget 106 million every month. Your decision for 300 leva. The minimum pension you are offering is political and there is no logic whatsoever that is finally deforming our pension model. It's not that we don't want people to get a high minimum pension, but there's a logical, legitimate way to do that. Nearly one million pensioners will receive the same pensions regardless of their contribution. And it will cost extra money from the state budget. 90 million. The feeling that you are reaching out to them today, having them as an electoral reserve, is deeply insulting to each of them. But this is what you do in order to make up for your lost trust in the upcoming elections. You are proposing an unfair and corrupting pension insurance system approach. This approach, according to experts, is not only unfair to BSP, but it is also deeply demotivating all young people and working people in the reliability and security of the pension insurance system. With your proposals you apply the principle of opposition to one group of pensioners against another. This is clearly your model and style of management. Don't you realize that you are harming a serious percentage of Bulgarian pensioners whose pensions amount to BGN 300. To the max? These are people with intellect, high work experience, high individual rates, but with a small pension. It's discrimination against people who have done highly qualified labor. It is unfair to those who have regularly paid social contributions during their entire service. [[Reply from the National Representative Boris Vangelov.]] It is unfair to increase pensions without taking into account service, individual coefficient and other individual differences. [[Replications from OP.]] Excuse me, you will have the opportunity from the stand to state your disagreements. Don't call from the spot. It turns out that those who were most irresponsible about their insurance today are most cared for by power. In order to restore normality, justice and predictability, we propose to stop these experiments. We have consistently proposed that people with the slightest social contribution be supported by social assistance. Any payments that are not related to the contribution shall be deducted. Recalculating pensions with a medium-term income by 2015. At least at this stage it is possible, given the costs you provide for in the budget for pensions. To restore trust in one of the most socially significant systems. We need balanced and durable solutions to ensure the adequacy and sustainability of the pension system. A balance must be achieved between the insurance contribution and the insurance payment, not solutions per piece, populist with a view to winning another election, manipulating the public and especially those people who are most deeply harmed by your decisions, the Bulgarian pensioners.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u49	Thank you. - What's the line? We continue with the speeches. Are there any speeches? Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today's discussion is interesting with the fact that it makes proposals to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, which are related, as recorded in the projects: a comprehensive vision in the short and long term for pension policy and reforms in the context of ensuring adequate income. In BSP's proposal is written: "Metodics, regulating the phase of pensions from the second pillar of the pension system. Honourable Members, what is the meaning of the method for regulating the phase of pensions of the second pillar? Which phase is the accumulation of funds or the repayment phase? This is not clear, and there is no way to support such a point, because it, in the form in which it was written, does not say anything. There is nothing to say and the proposal of colleagues from GERB. What does this offer say? In this proposal, it is written:.. entrusts the Minister of Labour and Social Policy to take the necessary steps to develop a draft law amending and supplementing the Code of Social Security to regulate the payment phase......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... There are several working groups, there is a comprehensive draft change to the Social Security Code, which regulates the payment phase. If you remember, in August 2019 a working group headed by the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, the then Minister, the Financial Supervision Commission, the Association of Private Pension Companies came up with one final version for amendments to the Social Security Code, which regulated all issues related to this. You know, there was a press conference where quite fanfare and paraded were announced all these changes that should have been adopted back then. Then what should the Minister of Labour and Social Policy draw up from now on? There's a bill in place waiting for only the sanction of the Ministry of Finance. What was announced in the last days by the Minister for Labour Social Policy for Changes to the Social Security Code, which will change the reduction rate and change the other changes, will probably enter as part of the state social security budget for next year, so what decisions should we take today? I'm very puzzled! Next, I am going back in the years of 2012. The European Commission came up with a proposal to the member states in the so-called White Paper, announcing then a Programme for adequate and secure, sustainable pensions. What did this program involve? This programme included in the legislation of the Member States to ensure an adequate ratio between years of service on the one hand and the expected years of retirement on the other. The Bulgarian legislation has taken measures that are related to the adequacy between the years of service and the years for obtaining a pension. Next, there was a need to seek adequacy between the insurance contribution and the amount of pensions. In order for this to happen, it must be within the framework of a financially sustainable system. But what do the numbers say? 2009 The transfer from the state budget to the state social security budget under the programme "2 billion." The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are 400 million.; 2021 I'm offering $6 billion and nearly $300 million. If you think this is how we talk about financial sustainability, we should ask ourselves the question: are we right or are we wrong? Because, on the one hand, we want an increase in the amount of the pension, on the other hand, we want financial sustainability, from a third party, considering the budget of state social security, we notice a clear trend for increasing the transfer from the state budget to the budget of state social security. Instead of insurance contributions, our pension system becomes increasingly dependent on taxes, which means that the pressure on the public finances of the pension system, if we continue in this way, will be extremely serious and will suffer the other systems because we cannot leave the Bulgarian pensioners without pensions. Do you understand what a serious situation we're facing right now? What we are proposing for next year in the Draft Budget, which we will consider perhaps in the coming weeks, is an increase in the impact of taxes on the pension system, that is, the pressure on public finances is increasing. These six billion are a deficit that can only be recovered with debt funding. There is no other way to recover these six billion. Therefore, when we talk about increasing the amount of pensions, yes, there is a need for such an increase, yes, Bulgarian pensioners must receive sustainable secure pensions, but in any case we must be aware that we must also ensure financial stability, because what we are proposing cannot be implemented within the framework of financial stability. These six billion deficits, which will come from taxes, mean the following: the Bulgarian pensioner, in order to receive this amount of pension that we are talking about now, must go to the store to buy food products and with the VAT he pays has to refund, refinance, the amount of pension. That's the situation right now. In order for it to be improved, what should be done? What do we offer from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? Recalculation, yes, everyone expects a recalculation, but if we do a recalculation with the insurance income for 2015 from January 1st, next year we need a billion 200 million, these numbers are known, and only 940 thousand pensioners will receive some change. The remaining billion and 200 won't get a penny out of this recalculation. If we recalculate from July next year with the social security income for 2019, then 451 million is needed.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u51	Mr. Ademov, your time is up!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u52	I'm done, Mr. Chairman. Then pensions will receive about 940,000 pensioners, the rest will not receive any money from this recalculation. Therefore, what we propose: to increase in the formula for calculating the amount of pension the coefficient 1.2 per year of service. Thus, during the insurance service, through the contribution of each one, we will guarantee an increase of 10% in the amount of pensions for the next year of all pensioners.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u53	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Mr. Ademov, one moment. You have essentially not made a proposal to change an existing decision, but you, I suppose, will find a place in legislative change that you have spoken about. Thank you. - What's the line? Any other speeches? Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u54	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister Sacheva, The draft decision that we are proposing today is related to improving the adequacy of pensions in Bulgaria in the short and long term, because our parliamentary group believes that it is necessary today and now to make and give Bulgarian pensioners that calmness they need to give a signal to the young people of Bulgaria that the pension system is working because what is happening now is blowing up the pension system. Since January 1st, again with the proposals to be made with the state social security budget, the construction model has been as set out since 2000. Because what does retirement mean? The Philosophy pension is compensation for the individual who has reached a certain age and cannot work, but it is bound by his individual contribution and the more they contribute, the more you get. On the contrary is the system of social benefits. Through the social welfare system, a minimum standard of living is provided and there is the vision of each one of the politicians how to help people who live below the living standard, but the pension insurance model is something else. At the moment, what we are doing with the advance increase, only and only, of the minimum pension we are leveling out those Bulgarian pensioners who receive the average, equalizing with those who have paid much higher social contributions and the whole signal to young people is: deposit your minimum insurance thresholds because the pension system will give you the minimum pension. If we look at last year's statistics, when the minimum pension rose ahead and now, when the minimum pension will rise again, the calculation itself and the very number of pensioners who received such a calculation to receive this amount is extremely small, not to say 11 people. I say once again, social assistance is necessary for all who live below the poverty line, but not through the pension system. What we see in the draft decision of the parliamentary group of GERB and you ruling is extremely insufficient, it is partial and does not respond to the overall vision that the entire Bulgarian society needs, to present a vision for the pension model, which clearly does not work permanently. With your draft decision, you are proposing only a revision of the Social Security Code and by 31 December this year. In a few weeks, we'll be accepting the government's social security budget. How do we respond through the budget to what we do with this draft decision when we revise the Social Security Code when we reduce the payment phase from the second pension pillar? There should also be predictability in the state budget what will happen. With your decision-making project, you offer nothing. You do not offer adequate deadlines to at least clarify what will happen with the pay-out phase Mr. Ademov paid attention to the second point of view to all, it is clear that we are talking about the pay-out phase of the second pension pillar. I take the opportunity that Minister Sacheva is sitting next to me and I very much insist before we make our decision, before we vote in this House, to hear from her the answers to several very important and essential questions. Dear Mrs. Sacheva, a recalculation of pensions was laid down in your management program. Why did you give him up when the scissors between the old and the new pensions are dramatically large? Why did you even the average with the minimum pension? Is there a need for a comprehensive transformation of the approach to calculating pensions after they are allocated by one methodology and updated by another? The indexing has provided 54 percent in 11 years, and these 11 years the growth of the insurance income, which is the basis for the calculation of pensions, has increased by 230 percent? What do we do with the profits of pension companies.. they distribute dividends.. 32% of the profits? After all, do you think that this is the overall vision, this is your view related to the pension system? Because we think what's happening right now is a pogrom.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. - What's the line? Statements? Mr. Angelov. [[Relations from the National Representative Nadia Klisurska.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u56	It's a statement, I won't give you that pleasure. Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am listening to colleagues from BSP how they once again turn Bulgarian pensioners against each other. They're explaining how it's unfair to raise the minimum pension. And until one month ago, their words were that we of the United Patriarchs lied to people that we would make the minimum pension 300 BGN. However, we of the United Patriarchs are fulfilling our promises because they are recorded in the election program and then we are fulfilling them. What are you BSP guys doing? May I remind you of your management along with the DPS during the Oresharski period?! How much did you raise your minimum pension? With four levs and fifty pennies! [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] How much did you index the other pensions? Three percent! Unlike you, in the last four years the minimum pension in Bulgaria has risen sharply because this is normal. Because the lies you're running that, you see, these people didn't have enough work experience or didn't make big contributions for insurance, so they had low pensions, and the other pensioners were damaged. No! Because the model of pension reform, which was made by the management of Kostov, which you are currently defending and protesting together with his people outside, deprived the Bulgarian pensioners who worked during communism, who worked for the first ten years in the darkness of the Bulgarian transition, deprived them of having a normal pension. It's the truth! And you are now defending the Bulgarian citizens who worked during communism to have low pensions. It's not that they weren't provided, it's not that they don't have service. And you're behind this pension system?! We've been twisting it?! What did we do with it? The poverty threshold in Bulgaria for this year is BGN 363. We want to make 300 leva. the 1 January pensions, so that these people can really have nearly one million people, have a more normal way of life. [[Reply from the National Representative Georgi Gokov.]] Mr. Gokov, when you spoke, when you read more accurately, excuse me, I did not interrupt your smooth reading. So stop lying and manipulating! In the previous parliament, I will come back when we from the United patriots and from IMRO offered 300 BGN. The minimum pension and indexing of everyone else, then Mrs. Ninova had just headed BSP and had 40 and several MPs. Exactly on this point in the state budget 20 MPs from BSP were not in the Chamber and did not pass because of several votes on purpose. Then the BSP colleagues told me: she asked us only half to be inside. Even then, this problem could have been solved, but you are hypocritical! It's the truth! Because if you had then voted on our proposal for the state budget, we wouldn't be having these problems now. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] But it's the truth! The truth is: you do not want the Bulgarian pensioners to have normal income. You're criticizing that we're raising the minimum pension unjustly. You are against the Bulgarian minimum pension being 300 BGN and you are a social party! You're against this! For 30 years of transition in Bulgaria this is the most social budget in Bulgaria, which is offered and you are against it! What kind of social party are you? [[Reply from the National Representative Georgi Gokov.]] You're a party of personal interest, of that...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u57	Mr. Gokov, don't answer that. Mr. Gokov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u58	...to have the power to make pensions. I know your abilities, Mr. Gokov. I know your abilities. And I turn around, as Mrs. Ninova does from the stands: fellow citizens, dear compatriots, I call on you, do not support the model DPS and BSP ever again in Bulgaria, so that you will never again receive a three-dollar pension or 120 leva. minimum pension during the time of Oresharski and support those who work for the interest of Bulgarian pensioners, the people who have given their work the contribution to Bulgaria to develop. You're the ones who hurt them and manipulate them all the time! [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u59	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. The way you're doing it, but first I'll see if there's any lines. [[(Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.) Replies from the National Representative Hasan Ademov.)]] Are there any lines? There is.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u60	Mr. Angelov, I agree with much of your speech, only something you didn't say, and I hope in the duplicate you will develop it is that in 2017 the BSP offered 300 BGN in the budget. A minimum pension, saying, "Here you go, Patriots, you have a chance to solve your problem." In 2018, they did the same thing, in 2019 they did the same thing. And now, in 2020, when finally IMRO's proposal for 300 BGN. A minimum pension is a fact in the current budget, you come out hypocritically, colleagues from BSP, you say: but this is how you distort the system. When are BSPs lying: in 2020 or in 2017, 2018, 2019? Thank you. [[Relations from the National Representative Milko Nedyalkov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u61	Thank you, Mr. Siddy. Second line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u62	You're right, Mr. Siddy, I missed this moment because this really shows once again the hypocrisy and how to turn Bulgarian citizens against each other, how to explain to them that, you see, the bad government will now take from those who should get more and give to those who should get less. But those who receive, Mr. Siddy, less, receive less unfairly because a wrong pension system has been made in Bulgaria. It's a fact! [[(Replys from BSP for Bulgaria]] Well, who made it? Those who protest with them outside made it the people of Kostov, not us! So you're right here. We can also recall many other facts, Mr. Siddy, about BSP's duplicity regarding pensions. But I will still say that I call the people of the third age, the Bulgarian pensioners: watch, see what the opposition does and beware of them, because if they come to power, the people of the third age will again have problems, their income will be eaten again, the pensions will be small again! It's the truth! They have proven that they can do the opposite. We, the bad guys, are increasing the incomes of the people, and you, the good opposition or the future governors, during the entire period when you ruled the Bulgarian state, did the opposite: you destroyed the Bulgarian economy, you destroyed the Bulgarian education, you destroyed the Bulgarian pensioners, you destroyed the young Bulgarian families. [[Replications from MPs Krum Zarkov and Georgi Svilenski.]] That's the truth, and we'll move on! It is no coincidence that for all young families there will be child support for children, as we have offered over the years. It is no accident that we continue to act for the kindergartens and nurseries to be exempt from fees to help young Bulgarian families. Because in times of crisis, the state is then a state when it helps people's problems and socially supports them, and not like you, I will repeat: three dollars pension! That's your pride three dollars pension! That's you: three dollars!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u63	Say that again!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u64	Three dollars! This is your department! [[Replications by National Representative Hasan Ademov.]] Incompetence! Three percent Mr. Ademov, in this House and in the previous Parliament, and in this Parliament several times MPs from the DPS and from the BSP have predicted how in the next Parliament or in the European Parliament, the United Patriarchs and the IMRO will not enter. But what happened?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u65	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u66	Ah, that's what you said! But what happened? It turns out that people see what we do, because whatever we make as a commitment, we do it, and all you do is talk, talk, talk...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u67	Your time is up, Mr. Angelov, thank you. It's the way it's supposed to be. [[Heckling]] Four people raise your hand the way you lead. Come on, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u68	Dear Mr. Chairman! We have repeatedly accused you of not stopping MPs when they say false things. You may rightly say that you cannot know what the people's representative will say when he speaks. But the same untrue things have been repeated for more than four years for Ninova's taking out the parliamentary group when the Patriotic Front had contributed an increase in pensions!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u69	It's a fact!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u70	Mr. Angelov, meet Mr. Simeonov. This conversation about the voices outside we had with him on the table and it turns out that three people were present at this vote from the Patriotic Front.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u71	In the manner of conduct, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u72	And it's not your fault...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u73	Don't address Mr. Angelov!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u74	That's why I told you, because he does it repeatedly, he repeats it. And a hundred times to repeat it, that won't be true. Let's get the printouts out, see in this vote how they voted, how they lied to the Bulgarian citizens and did not seek the blame in the BSP parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u75	Mr. Svilensky, if you have no comment on me in the manner of conduct, please complete.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u76	My point is, when you hear from now on that the parliamentary group has been taken out, you interrupt it at the moment. That's my request. And really as a guide to extract this printout from the transcripts to make it clear how the United Patriotic Front then lied to the Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u77	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The way you're leading it? I'll give you the floor for a personal explanation. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I'll give you my word. [[Heckling]] I get it. We got hot.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u78	Dear Mr. Chairman, I appeal to you, taking a procedure in the manner of conduct, asking when we are talking about the lowest income groups of our mothers and fathers, the pensioners, to take away the word of all millionaires from BSP and red bourgeoisie, which comes out to speak, and has never experienced hunger and poverty, led these people to a begging staff all these years to work in their red factories and factories. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u79	Before I give you the word in the manner of conduct, a personal explanation from Mr. Angelov and we will continue with you. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] It was mentioned.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u80	Mr. Chairman, I was mentioned by name. I'm not gonna mention the name so he doesn't say I mentioned it by name. [[Relations from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] The lies, well, they do have printouts! The other thing I can say as an explanation, there were several texts that concerned raising the minimum pension and indexing of all the other pensions for the state budget back then. There were a few texts in the budget, remember? [[Relations from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] So, and, and... [[Heckling]] After BSP initially did not support these things in the state budget, there was a conversation between the Patriotic Front and Mrs. Ninova, in which she promised and made a commitment from the platform of the National Assembly that the BSP at the final phase of the budget would support the text in order to raise the minimum pension by indexing of all other pensions. It's the truth! Then out of 40 and several MPs from the BSP in the Chamber were 20 and did not pass because of several votes. [[Relations from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] In this particular vote, which was the most important vote, Mrs. Nino asked half of her fellow party members not to be in the Chamber! [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Because she doesn't want anyone else to have credit for raising pensions, and she, when she comes to power, does it eventually, which we all doubt. [[Heckling]] So the lies we were accused of, including me, are simply not true. I wanted to hear about the three-dollar lie! [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I didn't hear about the pensions in Jean Videnov's day. Was that a lie?! Three dollars pension for Jean Videnov that's a lie?! An increase of 4.50 on the minimum pension at the time of Oresharski is a lie?! Three percent indexation of all pensions during the Oresharski period is a lie?! The poor governance between GERB and the United Patriarchs (United Patriarchs) over the past four years raised pensions between 5 and 7% per year, and the minimum pension, as seen, will be raised twice by the end of June!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u81	Thank you, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u82	These are the people who ran out and acted! It's not a lie, it's the truth, and you're hurting because you can't rule the country...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u83	Finish your thought, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u84	...and you can't take care of people. It's the truth!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u85	Thank you. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Okay, I get it. There are four of you. Just you decide who goes first. I'll listen to everyone. Here you go, Mrs. Lecheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u86	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It is your responsibility, Mr. President, for the quality of debate in this National Assembly, for the quality of policy that is broadcast by this National Assembly and for a reason this National Assembly trusts 7% precisely because of this way of debate, which today offers us by the United Patriarchs. This is a theater performance, honourable gentlemen Patriots, presented by poor quality artists, just from this stand you have dropped one percent of your confidence, which approaches 2%. [[Replications from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u87	To me, Mrs. Lecheva. ВЕСЕЛА ЗЕЛЕЛЕВА Dear Mr. President, I ask you to put order in the Chamber and call on the Members of the National Assembly to be responsible for their positions which they hold towards the Bulgarian pensioners and to move towards a much more quality debate. Because with the decisions and what you are proposing today, in addition to breaking the system, you will take away the future of young people in Bulgaria in the coming years.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u88	Thank you. Just to point out the quality of the debate is not dependent in any way on the President, but on the MPs. [[Noise and lines from OP.]] Here, Mrs. Lecheva, this is... [[Noise and lines from OP.]] Please, colleagues, be quiet! Here you are, Mrs. Klisurska. A statement?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u89	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u90	It's the way it's supposed to be. Because I saw you put it here...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u91	These are my sheets I usually bring.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u92	Okay. Don't let them take it away from you. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u93	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, Minister Sacheva! Dear Mr. Chairman, I'm addressing you. We now have a draft decision that we are ultimately debating. And I ask the question: on the first point of this draft decision, we had to discuss the overall vision of the adequacy of pensions. On point two, let's discuss the payout phase. Dear Mr President, in the previous speech, which was, I ask the question: where was the debate on overall vision? Stop putting the tape back because we're talking politics here and now... [[Noise and lines from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u94	Colleagues, please! Another way to express your outrage.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u95	...we're talking about a pension system that is in danger of being corrupted, that's what we're talking about. And when we say from the stands in terms of the size of the minimum pension...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u96	Mrs. Klisurska, to me!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u97	...we say that all Bulgarian citizens should receive aid when they do not receive those adequate incomes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u98	Is there anything else you want to tell me?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u99	And what you're saying doesn't talk about your overall vision.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u100	Mrs. Klisurska, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u101	You allowed, Mr. Chairman, to talk populist about past tense. [[Noise and lines from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u102	I allow speeches by Members of the National Assembly. Here you go. [[Noise and lines from OP.]] Mr. Gokov, and you about the way you're following him? I see. [[(Noise and lines from OP. Replies from the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Desislava Atanasova from GERB: It is without mask! Make a remark to him!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u103	Why don't you start working at RZI?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u104	I'm confused with Mr. Mirchev's beard, because from here you can see... Mr. Mirchev, really! Please put the mask on! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u105	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. President, since this is an extremely important issue for a large part of the population, I ask you for two things within the meaning of the Rules of the National Assembly: Mr. President, please do not allow the panic that has taken over the group of the United Patriarchs because of their disappearing rating to be carried here on this high tribune. [[Noise, lines and laughter from OP.]] This tribune does not deserve such an unpleasant view of the panic of the disappearing rating. Therefore, Mr President, please, every time important issues are replaced by populism, panic, anything else or with absurd political issues, they are not on the subject to be stopped. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u106	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Mr. Gokov, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u107	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Dear Mr. Chairman, my procedure is in the manner of conduct and is entirely directed towards you, although it is not bad to listen to everyone in this House. Mr. Chairman, you do not hold the debate and do not follow the Rules because you allow in the form of procedures and procedural matches here groups with minor representation in the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria to extend their time in the debate. And tell me, Mr. Chairman, what is the point of this time distribution when you provide the opportunity, again I say to low representation groups in the National Assembly to extend their time by speaking in the form of procedures essentially? How long are you going to do this, Mr. Chairman? I am impressed that you are interrupting the procedure of the last colleague Nadia Klisurska, and you have extended the time for the previous one, even though it had nothing to do with the debate at all. It was some speech that I couldn't even determine what they were. How long are you going to do this, Mr. Chairman? Answer the Chamber so that we know and understand how to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u108	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. [[The National Representative Alexander Siddy wants the floor.]] I'll give you my word, Mr. Siddy. You are calling on me to make a separation between MPs from one or another parliamentary group, which is not possible. You can't tell from small groups or large groups. The rules are one for all MPs, and for you, Mr. Gokov. Mr. Siddy.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u109	Mr. Chairman, I strongly object that you have not stopped speaking to the one who had the nerve to make assessments of the minority of a particular parliamentary group. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] This parliamentary group has earned the trust of Bulgarian citizens. The fact that in recent months the BSP has separated people, perhaps more or less, as our parliamentary group is, of course, their problem is. However, I also believe that the time of their group should be recalculated, respectively the burden as a burden in the National Assembly. But I strongly object that you did not interrupt the conversation, twice repeated the same thesis, which is offensive to the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u110	Thank you, Mr. Siddy. Actually, I said what you wanted me to say, but in a different way. Of course, because that's not... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mr. Gokov, do you want a statement? The way you're leading it? [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mr. Gokov, you just spoke in the manner of conduct. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] No, I can't stop you. You can quit yourself. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] If you insist, please. But I'm asking you to really be with me this time. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u111	Dear Mr. Chairman, both the previous time and now.. unlike the previous one, as you said, I address only you. You told me that I had no right to separate the people in this room because of representation. The rules separate them, Mr. Chairman, that's why the time distribution is. And I am making a remark to you that you are violating the rules of time distribution by allowing groups with less representation and less time to extend their time through procedural statements on the substance of the debate. I didn't say anything else. You're explaining to me how I've separated people! Well, I don't separate them.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u112	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. First, I make the remarks according to the Rules. You could use another word that fits. Besides, it's time. Yes, the time has been recalculated and you have no reason to check in the minutes to protest your colleagues' statements regarding time distribution. It was unfounded to take the floor from you. We'll continue with the speeches, colleagues. Mr. Sirakov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u113	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mrs. Minister! Unfortunately, we have seen what is our priority in today's debate: whether the political bickering or the interest in perhaps the most seriously injured group during the quota crisis, namely the pensioners. I respect the statements of my colleagues from the BSP, but I cannot agree with them. The apocalyptic picture you are trying to draw us will hardly erase from the minds of the people neither the three dollars pension nor the opportunities you have had to support the increase of the minimum pension to 300 levs, nor the opportunity you have had to manage, although for a short time you want to do what you so badly want to do when you are in opposition. Yes, I agree that there are certainly injustices in the pension system. The question is when and how can they be changed, cleaned and minimized in such a way that the pension system is stable and is as fair as possible? I will try to bring back the whole discussion to the two solutions that have been proposed to us, and in the face of this crisis, because this whole debate, both of these solutions, are related to the situation we are in. With regard to the first pillar of the pension system, the facts say that the newly retired persons have not increased, which, as a factor, if it is good at the moment, should be seen seriously in the future, because we do not know how the whole situation will develop and what the situation itself will lead to, whether the newly retired persons will increase in the form of the crisis. With regard to insured persons and social security benefits which are reduced. The insurance companies fell at the beginning of the crisis by about 202 thousand people and led to a reduction of the insurance contributions by about 1.1% that is their decline. This situation leads to measures being taken in two main guidelines. One, that's the care of the pensioners, what they need. The first thing the Ministry is doing at the moment is supporting pensioners with 50 leva. Yes, of course, it is aid, yes, of course it is insufficient, but with the possibilities and the situation, and the situation is dynamic and, above all, unpredictable in time, we believe that this is an adequate measure at this time with these clarifications. The second is that pensions are changing not in the middle of the year, as has been adopted so far, and this will happen since January 1st. And the increase in the minimum pension, which brings with it the increase in the remaining pensions associated with it, and the increase in the social pension, which leads to an increase in the pensions associated with it, and the increase in the ceiling of the pensions, these are all measures that are set to happen in 2021, which give a solution to the current situation in which we find ourselves. This, on the one hand, is aid to pensioners themselves, on the other, albeit indirectly, albeit with a very small share, but this will also reflect on increasing consumption and stimulating the economy. The second aspect is linked to the stable economy, because this is the way through which insurance contributions will be increased. If we don't have a working economy, everything else is meaningless. There is no way to invent and discuss methods for allocating funds to minimize and correct injustices, provided that the economy cannot provide sufficient social security contributions. The measures that are being taken at the moment, with regard to the support of companies, I think are adequate and timely. Just for example, at the beginning of the crisis, the reduction of insurance personnel was about 202 thousand, to date or by August, I think it was, the persons have decreased and currently there are 44 thousand compared to a type of crisis. So the measures that concern the promotion and support of the economy are extremely important so that we can lead the debate on a fairer pension system. To conclude, I would say that we would not support the Bill of BSP colleagues, which once again gives us the opportunity to look at a vision. We do not currently need vision, long-term measures, and we need medium-term measures and, above all, short-term measures at the moment, because, as I said, the situation is extremely dynamic and unpredictable in its time. So we will support the decision that we have proposed, which is linked to the second pillar of the pension system, whose investment income decreases, and this creates great risks for the pension pillar itself. So with changes in the CSR, I think we will solve some of these problems in terms of the payment phase of the additional compulsory pension insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u114	Thank you, Mr. Sirakov. Are there lines? We continue with the speeches. Mrs. Jeleva, do you want the floor? Here you go. I'm following the group rotation rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u115	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister Sacheva, you are yet another social minister who has not been able to overcome the recalculation of the old pensions, as your coalition partners have promised, as you intended, but once again the pensioners have been lied to and the promises are not reality. The missionaries deserve decent old age and decent income. I would like to make it clear that we are not opposed to increasing the minimum pension, but this must be done through social assistance. It cannot be fair to all pensioners, because so must it be if the minimum pension increases, but there is also a recalculation of the so-called old pensions. The pensioners were lied to again. But this has to happen, I want to make it clear, because if it doesn't happen as soon as possible, it will lead to financial stability that will be destroyed in the country, as Mr. Ademov said. We are threatened by endangering the financial stability of the state, not only of the Pension Fund. And since it was just said that there is talk of populists here, Members of the United Patriarchs, let's stop with populism, let's stop with the theatre, let's not turn the Bulgarian pensioner into a hostage! So let's get back to the agenda and more like this. 2 of our Project Decision: the payment phase of the second pensions. [[Noise and lines from OP.]] An even bigger problem is coming, because at the beginning of the year I asked you a question about the reduction of pensions that will be received by the NSI pensioners who will retire in 2021. Huge injustice, because this percentage that is determined is based on what is held back for the second pillar, but this has not happened during the entire period of their insurance, or for 40 years of service we will take this percentage Then, in your reply, you said, I quote: a reduction will be made so as to be consistent with individual insurance history. But I mean, with that 20%, because they're not a universal percentage, there's an individual coefficient for everyone. This is very important to know, because again we will put in people's minds some 20% and then we will wonder how to make them not think in that direction. Those pensioners would have received, and to know, they would have received this year, a cut of the first state pension. This Parliament has been exhausted, but it is good that the opposition has corrected this governance and thanks to our position for almost a year now, this topic is constantly being put on the agenda. In several questions personally to you you have answered that such an individual factor for all 20%, uniform, none. We have now come to the decision that there is, and yes, at the end of the year we have a decision that this will be corrected, but...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u116	Your time is over, Mrs. Jeleva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u117	...do it for the price of something else.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u118	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u119	What was considered yesterday at the Trilateral Council is that you, at the cost of this proposal, agreeing to reduce the reduction rate, are taking something else from the pensioners.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u120	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u121	The fact that they're right...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u122	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u123	Just a second.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u124	Well, I've given you enough time. I've given you 30 seconds. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u125	One sentence only.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u126	One sentence.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u127	That they are deprived of the right to choose whether to retire according to the old formula and whether to retir on the new one. The so-called golden years that have the right to choose pensioners will be taken away from them. They were entitled to 2023... [[The speaker continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u128	Thank you. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Papasimov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u129	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! With regard to the issue of the long-term policy for improving the adequacy and sustainability of the pension system, it is important to bear in mind that, in order to achieve this objective, significant changes were made in the Social Security Code in 2015, which were adopted by the National Assembly with a high level of consensus. Part of the legislative decisions have already been implemented, namely: the amount of the social security contribution for the Fund is increased; the burden of one year of insurance service is also increased from 1.1 to 1.2 percent; a minimum retirement age is introduced for all insured persons. However, for the overall achievement of the objectives set, it is necessary to continue the implementation of other planned measures, part of which is the smooth increase of the insurance service and retirement age of insured persons by 2063, to continue the annual update of pensions under the Swiss rule. In this regard, it is not necessary at this stage to develop a comprehensive new vision for pension policy and reform of the first pillar of pension insurance, but to follow the reform already adopted in 2015. As part of the long-term pension policy, in order to ensure secure additional benefits to the basic pension, it is necessary to continue the work on improving the arrangements for supplementary pension insurance, the so-called second pillar of pension insurance, which is also laid down in the Programme of Government Management in the period 2017 - 2021. The compulsory insurance in universal pension funds for persons born after 31 December 1959, which are insured in the Fund of the State Social Security, was implemented in 2002. When the legal framework of the Additional compulsory pension insurance was adopted, and in the following years, the attention of the legislator is focused entirely on detailed regulation of the fund accumulation period of the first phase of pension schemes with differentiated contributions, the winner of which are universal pension funds and occupational pension funds. The legal framework established at the start of this pillar in the second phase, namely the period of payment of pensions from the universal pension funds, is incomplete, contradictory, which creates difficulties in the monetary allocation of pensions from these funds. The first persons to gain pension rights from these funds are those born in 1960 women, because they, as we all know, have less insurance and retirement age. The first pensions will be received after 1 September 2021 and the number of women who will be entitled to this type of pensions is around 20 000. The first men to reach their due age, namely 64 years and 7 months, entitled to a lifelong retirement pension from universal pension funds, were born between January 1st and May 31st, 1960, and they reached that age in 2024. This requires action to be taken on the development of a full and modern legal framework for the payment phase of pensions from additional compulsory pension provision in a short time, which will ensure adequate protection of the rights and interests of insured persons and their successors. It is necessary to develop a separate law in which the types of pension products to be paid and the conditions for their receipt are regulated in the first place. In view of the nature of the pension, which is in the standard case, a type of lifelong payment, the envisaged and current possibility of life old-age pensions from universal pension funds should be maintained. However, detailed rules should be made for the conditions and sources of their pay given the existing possibility that the individual account of the person is exhausted when a risk of survival occurs, i.e. where the life expectancy provided for in the biometric tables, on the basis of which the pension amount is calculated, is exceeded by the pensioner. The rules for the single or deferred payment of funds under the individual account also need to be more detailed given that, in the first years in which pensions from universal pension funds are allocated, a large part of the persons will not have sufficient funds in individual accounts to enable them to receive life-saving pensions. Another important topic on which special attention should be paid to the Bill is that of recalculating and updating the amount of pensions allocated by universal pension funds. In order to enable persons to make an informed choice regarding the provision, it is necessary to have more clarity on the rights of the heirs of insured persons and pensioners, and in particular under what conditions and when they will or will not have the right to inherit the remainder of the funds after the death of the insured person or pensioner from the universal pension funds. In conclusion, I will say: on the first pillar of pension insurance, things are going well, we follow the changes that were adopted in 2015 in the Social Security Code. Now we need to focus on the second pension pillar, and in the part of the payment of pensions from this fund. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u130	Thank you, Mr. Papasimov. [[Noise in BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mrs. Klisurska, please don't distract your colleagues from the debate in the Chamber. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Kasabov. [[Noise and lines in BSP for Bulgaria.]] Half a minute, Mr. Kasabov. You have to fit in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u131	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! In thirty seconds, whatever I can say, I'll be as brief as I can. Thank you, colleagues from BSP, for another show of lies, fraud, populism. You stand in front of the TV and lie to your constituents, but don't lie to us. I'll tell you: in 2019, gentlemen, you, ladies and gentlemen, introduced the Law on... [[Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria "Search": "Search!"]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u132	Mr. Kasabov, your time is up. Please finish.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u133	...social security.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u134	Mr. Kasabov!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u135	Social Security! Then you agreed with our management with Valeri Simeonov, and we have decided to support your proposals for the maximum pension of 300 BGN. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u136	Mr. Kasabov, if you'll excuse me, your time is long gone.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u137	And then, the second time you've done this number... Twenty people from your group have left.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u138	Thank you, Mr. Kasabov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u139	What's that called? Populism. [[(Strength noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u140	Mr. Kasabov, thank you. I'm closing the debate. Madam Minister, you have the floor to speak. Your time is unlimited.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u141	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! It has already been said by the stands that the short-term vision of improving the adequacy and sustainability of the pension system can be seen in the State Social Security Bill. I will not dwell once again on everything that this law contains both in terms of increasing the maximum amount of minimum, the maximum pension, the 50 levs. supplements to the fact that the pension of a pensioner in 2021 will reach BGN 488,97, and this is a nominal increase of 18.6%. I will only refer to what was put as a major controversy, namely the recalculation of the individual coefficient and the topic which the people's representative Mrs. Jeleva put forward. I would also like to remind you that precisely what is being said from the platform here is the need to complement pensions with social assistance, which is also one of the policies proposed in the state budget for next year, in which 47 million. lv. are separated for a supplement of 120 BGN. one-off for those pensioners whose pension is from BGN 300,01. up to BGN 369, as well as the poverty line. The State Social Security Budget Bill for 2021 also proposes a solution to a group of issues directly related to improving the adequacy of pensions not only in the short term but also in the long term. This is the subject of the individual coefficient used to determine the amount of pension paid by the State social security of persons born after 1 January 1960, with the so-called reduction, being determined in a manner defined in the Social Security Code. This is because the persons insured in a universal pension fund are participating with a lower percentage of the contribution to the pension fund. There's no way this coefficient could be universal and be 20% for everyone. The amount of the reduction is different for each person, as it depends on the total duration of the insurance history and on the specific periods of insurance, in so far as the contribution to the universal pension fund and the Pension Fund has not been the same since 2002. For a person who will retire in 2021 and who has been provided without interruption from 2002 until retirement in 2021, the value of the reduction coefficient is approximately 20.3%, so there is no uniform reduction coefficient, it is individual. The proposal we are making enables the National Insurance Institute to change its methodology and propose a reduction factor that is below 10%. Secondly, what needs to be supported in the State Social Security Bill is the proposal to provide another option to choose before the retirement age is over, for this choice to be made. In order to ensure a level playing field for persons, the same opportunity must be granted to those who have already been granted a pension for internship and age at a reduced amount............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 69 "The State Social Security'. Thus, they will be able to exercise their informed choice of insurance, once they have the information necessary for this information on the types of pension products to be offered by pension companies, the way in which they determine, update and update their amounts, the conditions of succession of the funds accumulated by individual accounts and the pensions allocated. Many times in answers to parliamentary questions, and also to the blitzcontrol yesterday in the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee, I replied that by the end of this year we will also present a draft amendment to the Social Security Code which regulates the payment phases of a second pension. Regarding what was affected by the MP Ms. Zheleva, although time did not allow her to say in full what she had as a note, I would like to answer the question directly: there is no harm to the pensioners. There is quite the opposite benefit. Current data show that for two thirds of the pensioners who exercised their pension rights in 2019 and in 2020, the application of the so-called new income drop-out methodology for the period before 2000 in determining the amount is more favourable. On average, for all types of pensions, the pension allocated under the new methodology is 27% higher than the pension of those pensioners whose pension is calculated with the inclusion of the income before 2000. As for pensioners with a pension with a retirement and age, there the differences reach 40%. The removal of income before 2000 and the reduction of the period in which this methodology can benefit, by one year, rather benefits than damages future pensioners. In this sense, we believe that it is not necessary to develop a comprehensive new vision for short-term pension policy and reforms in the first pillar of pension insurance, but to support the measures that we have proposed and already included in the State Social Security Bill. With regard to the recalculation, which was loudly and loudly advertised by the parliamentary platform, I would like to say that, in fact, when we talk about recalculating pensions with incomes from 2015, the average social security income was BGN 726,40. It would take 1 billion to do that. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. and 1 million and 100 thousand pensioners would not receive a recalculation of pensions; if we recalculate pensions with the average social security income for 2018, which was 889,90 BGN, this would cost the state 2 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. and 543 thousand pensioners will not receive an increase in their pensions; if we use the income for 2019, which was BGN 986,52, then 3 billion is needed. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. And 368,000 pensioners When we talk about recalculation, let us clearly understand how much it costs, on the one hand, and clearly tell people that recalculation will leave large groups of pensioners without recalculating pensions. With regard to long-term policy, I would like to say that part of the legislative decisions already implemented: the amount of the insurance contribution for the Fund is increased; the burden of one year internship is also increased from 1,1% to 1,2%; a minimum retirement age for all insured persons is introduced. In order to achieve the overall objectives of the long-term policy as it is at the moment, it is necessary mainly to increase the required internship and age for all insured persons. It must continue annually and update pensions under the so-called Swiss rule. In this regard, before the current long-term policy is implemented, we believe that it is not necessary to develop a new overall vision of pension policy and reform in the first pillar, but to follow what has already been adopted since 2015. The compulsory provision in universal pension funds for persons born after 31 December 1959, who are insured in the Fund of State Social Security, has been implemented since 2002. At the end of the last century, when the legal framework for additional compulsory pension insurance was adopted, and in the following years, the attention of the legislator is focused entirely on detailed regulation of the period of accumulation of funds, the so-called first phase of defined pension schemes, the winner of which is the universal pension funds and the occupational pension funds. The second phase legal framework established at the start of this pillar during the period of payment of pensions from universal pension funds is incomplete and controversial and therefore creates difficulties in the future release of pensions from these funds. The first persons to acquire pension rights from the universal pension fund were the women born in 1960 as their retirement age was lower than that of men. Born on 1 January 1960, the retirement age required on 1 September 2021 was around 20 thousand women born from 1 January 1960 to 30 April 1960. The first men to reach the age required, giving them the right to a lifelong retirement pension from a universal pension fund, or 64 and 7 m, are those born between 1 January 1960 and 31 May 1960, and they will be entitled to the retirement age in 2024. This requires action to be taken to develop a full and modern legal framework specifically for the payment phase of pensions from additional compulsory pension insurance and to ensure adequate protection of the rights and interests of the insured persons. In order to ensure this opportunity, as I have already informed you, by the end of November, we are prepared to submit for public discussion amendments to the Social Security Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u142	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Klisurska, I pay attention to you again that you are abducting your colleagues from the debate in plenary! [[(Voices from BSP for Bulgaria]] Colleagues, we're going to vote. I will present to you the draft decision which has been taken first in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Project! DECISION in connection with debates on questions, No 054-05-42 of 14 October 2020 by the MPs Georgi Gokov, Vesela Lecheva, Violeta Jeleva, Milko Nedyalkov, Nadia Klisurska and Polina Shishkova to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva on the policy of improving the adequacy of pensions in Bulgaria in the short and long term The National Assembly on the basis of art. 90, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 105, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Instructs the Minister of Labour and Social Policy to submit to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy in the National Assembly by 15 November 2020: 1. A comprehensive vision in the short and long term for pension policy and reforms in the context of ensuring adequate income for the elderly, in terms of ensuring financial sustainability in the pension system. 2. Methodology governing the phase of pensions of the second pillar of the pension system. Please, voting mode. Vote 149 MPs: 56 against 78 abstentions 15. The offer is not accepted. Now I present to you the Project, which comes in second: Project! DECISION in connection with debates on questions No 054-05-42/14.10.2020 by the MPs Georgi Gokov, Vesela Lecheva, Violeta Jeleva, Milko Nedyalkov, Nadia Klisurska-Zekova and Polina Shishkova to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva on the policy of improving the adequacy of pensions in Bulgaria in the short and long term The National Assembly on the basis of art. 90, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 105, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Instructs the Minister for Labour and Social Policy to take the necessary steps to develop a draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code to regulate the payment phase of the supplementary compulsory pension insurance. 2. By 31 December 2020, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on Please, voting mode. Vote 152 MPs: for 103, there is no objection, abstention 49. The motion is accepted. We are continuing with questions from parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u143	The first question is to the Minister of Youth and Sports Mr. Krasen Kralev, who will answer the question of the National Representative Ivan Chenchev concerning transfer of funds from unrealized international competitions. Mr. Chenchev, you're welcome to state your question. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u144	I'm aware of that, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister, Ministers! Dear Minister, I hope that you are well after the CoVID we have spent and we can move on to a work regime that I believe you have continued in the Ministry of Youth and Sports. My question is dictated by the pandemic that struck not only our country but the whole world. In this sense, the athletes suffered, all the people who are responsible for sports, who are involved in sports, who live with sports. You know that there are funds that were intended and used at the beginning of the pandemic of federations in relation to upcoming international competitions from the International Sports Calendar. After these races were unrealized due to the pandemic, my question lies in this: were these money transferred, which were transferred to federations, to clubs on other feathers, how and by what order? How did you do just so that these funds could be distributed fairly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u145	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u146	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chenchev, the CIVID-19 pandemic and the emergency measures imposed in many countries around the world imposed a shift on the International Sports Calendar. After March 2020, most international sports organisations redirected competitions, Olympic qualifications, world and European championships and others included in the International Sports Calendar for 2020 to conduct in 2021. In view of the state of emergency in Bulgaria and the reduced sports activity in the subsequent period in May, the Ministry of Youth and Sports took action to gradually restore the training activities of the contestants included in the Programme for Olympic Training for 2020 and in the Programme for the Development of Sports for High Achievements for 2020. We believe that the interruption of both the racing and the training activities of Bulgarian athletes due to the measures imposed during the state of emergency in the country should be compensated with additional training in order to regain their top shape. Therefore, the sports federations presented new training programmes in order to continue the optimal preparation aimed at winning quotas, participating in the summer Olympic and Paralympic Games in Tokyo 2021, as well as for participating in world and European championships. Due to the reduction of the competitions that sports federations had provided for in their 2020 projects, the funds for them were redirected precisely to further training, to increase training campers and to restore athletes, to provide the necessary sports bases, material and technical provision, to provide coaching groups, to officials and medical professionals directly related to the training processes of athletes, as well as to costs related to anti-epidemic measures. The same circumstances also imposed a change in the Programme to support activities for hosting international competitions in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria in order to implement the decisions for international sports organizations. The estimated budget for 2020 under the Programme amounts to 5 million. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established 203,000. BGN 129. for hosting households. Of these, for competitions held and to be held this year, the amount is 1 million. 179,000. lv. For competitions that have been redirected by international organisations to conduct in 2021, there are 700 thousand. lv. and to pay fees to international federations for holding established championships in the coming years 1 million. 324 thousand. BGN 129. The funds not spent under the Programme for households were redirected to support the activities of sports clubs under the Sports Club Development Programme for 2020. I have repeatedly said that sports clubs are a major link in the National Strategy for Physical Education and Sports, where sports talents are found. Sport clubs are the unit in the system of Bulgarian sports, which works mostly with children and adolescents, and are extremely important for the health of the entire nation. This year, under the Sports Club Development Programme, they are funded by nearly 6 million. Five hundred thousand. BGN, but were also most affected by the halting of sports activity this year. So we've decided to redirect the funds of 1 million. 892 thousand. BGN 185. to them by increasing by 30% the budget of each club with an established project under the Sports Club Development Program. The total number of clubs receiving increased funding is 889 members of 50 sports federations. We plan to double the budget for the clubs under the Sports Club Development Programme next year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u147	So half of the household funds have been rerouted. For the remaining half, I couldn't understand, but, Mr. Chenchev, you're entitled to a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u148	Exactly, Mr. Chairman, straight to the line. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I wrote down the numbers on this program of five million leva. What struck me, Mr. Minister, is that 889 clubs from 50 federations received funding, 700,000. lv. from this programme remain for next year. " 2021, but it seems to me that somewhere there is a problem in control of the implementation of the programmes because we have received such signals. In the statement of my question, I asked you whether you believe that this distribution is fair and by what criterion you do it, because it is no secret to anyone that there are also dissatisfied. I agree that you cannot fully cover all sports clubs in Bulgaria, but that is precisely why it is my supplementary question: how does the Ministry of Sport select which clubs to be supported and what is the control of the implementation of the programs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u149	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u150	Dear Mr. Chenchev, the funds allocated under this programme for financing sports clubs are allocated according to extremely strict and clear criteria. Fifty per cent of the amounts are determined according to the incremental asset of each club within the rating of the relevant federation, i.e. the federation according to the results and their criteria provides a proposal for the amount of the amount. The rest of the amount each club receives is determined by a very complex formula, which the experts of the Ministry of Youth and Sports have developed, which includes many indicators - number of carded contestants, number of medals won, activity for mass sport, international contribution and so on, meaning the subjective factor here is reduced to zero. Absolutely everything is calculated according to strict parameters and thus the additional funds are allocated. This is done absolutely every year. Clubs, as I said, vary every year, depending on whether they have met the criteria of the Ministry's federations and whether they have correctly accounted for the funds from the previous year. He's got maximum control. Each year these clubs report their funds, respectively follow inspections, revisions. If they are spent correctly, next year clubs are allowed to participate in the next program. I believe that the way clubs are financed, especially the federations, is absolutely transparent and clear, where the subjective factor is minimized. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u151	Thank you, Mr. Kralev. Recommendation. When you have answers to questions in the National Assembly, it is good to save the common part. You had an introduction about a minute and a half, then you went to the facts that the people's representative expected with his question. There is no need for a long introduction, but specifically on the subject, because time is limited. We move on to questions to the Minister of Education and Science Mr. Krasimir Valchev. The first question is from the National Representative Irena Anastasova on the implementation of repairs at Sofia University. Kliment Ohridski. Mrs. Anastasova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u152	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! My question to you, Minister, is as a result of a signal to me from students and lecturers at Sofia University. Kliment Ohridski. It is about their observations on how to perform repairs in the dorms of the university in blocks 18, 51, 57 vh. "A" and "B" and "B" and "B" and "B" and "B" and "B." 55, vc. "A" is They are to be repaired according to their words. "B" on bl. 55 and bl. 52. Students signal an extremely cheap window, of which the effect of the renovation is that in bl. 18 During the whole winter is formed such strong condensation that the walls are covered with water and mold; poor painting of the walls with paint that remains on the clothes when touched; equipment of the rooms with old furniture, desks and wardrobes, rated at over 400 BGN. the number, provided that their market price is below 200; poor repair of the parquet floors, in places the parquet floors are already compromised and so on. Last month, about two or three weeks ago, I think it was, in the media there was information about serious leaks that destroyed the inner facade of the university, which is a monument of culture. Against the background of such facts and after the granting by the Ministry of Education of serious funds to the higher schools for renovation of dorms and administrative buildings, including Sofia University "St. Kliment Ohridsky, my question to you is: what is your opinion on the cited facts? Is the Ministry of Education and Science a rule and what control has been carried out for the way in which the funds allocated by the State are being used for repairs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u153	Thank you, Mrs. Anastasova. Mr. Valchev, come in. You have three minutes to respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u154	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Anastasova! I apologize for the delay in the answer. Thank you for agreeing to postpone it, but this has given me the opportunity to carry out a check-up and review, we have met our colleagues and I with your signal. With regard to the listed blocks, the first one of them, the 18th one you mentioned, was repaired in 2008, the rest of the repairs took place last year and continued to be carried out. The Sofia University in early 2018 with Order No 3 was granted additional funds, including 4 and a half million for the renovation of student dorms................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ In relation to bl. 18 In addition, I had to say that the university is, in principle, a contracting entity of the repair activities, the only exception to this policy was made in 2005 when the Ministry of Education was a contracting entity of the repair activities in higher schools, and higher schools generally have separate budgets and are contracting entities within the meaning of the Public Procurement Act, but then with their consent this was done. On 9 October a view was made to establish the current state, an internal view was made in four rooms on a random basis. The Internal Audit Unit found bl. 18 that the whole window was replaced by a new aluminum window installed in the common areas. The new finishes are installed qualitatively, with the checked spaces in the common areas functioning normally, a central ventilation system is built in the building, in the sanitary rooms are installed fans that provide forced ventilation through the common ventilation shafts. There are no traces of condensation and mold on the inside of the facades. At the time of the inspection, latex coatings on the walls and ceilings are in good condition and do not leave any marks when passing hand over them. Given that the renovation took place approximately 11 years ago, there is a depreciation of these coatings in places to an extent that can be expected in normal operation of the building during this time period. The rooms are furnished with two beds, two desks, two chairs, one wardrobe, one cabinet. The sanitary rooms are equipped with a sink, toilet monoblock and shower. All the furniture and all the equipment in the bathrooms are in good condition. The floorings are made of laminated parquet for the rooms, terracotta plates of sanitary rooms, entrance halls, in the common areas of the building, the floorings are made of granite and cement mosaic in the staircase cage. All floor coverings are in excellent condition. The building of the Student dorm bl. 18 is generally in good condition and fit for use as intended. About your question about the renovations in the other dorms, bl. 55, vc. The repairs were carried out this year, part of the block was furnished with new furniture. In the event of a public procurement, the rest of the building is furnished with furniture donated by the University of Sofia, for which the university has not paid. A check was carried out at the site of the construction works carried out on the hostel bl. 57, vc. The activities were carried out under the procurement procedure. At the moment, there has been a remodeling of vh. "A" which includes renovation of rooms and sanitary facilities and the same have been carried out for the period March. Upcoming repair activities of the entrances "B" and "V". Three rooms were selected randomly and it is apparent from them that the dorm is in good condition. The building is suitable for use for the purpose, in the checked rooms the furniture is in visible good condition, with no traces of mold and condensation. The Rector of Sofia University defends the thesis that there are no problems in the repair activities, and believes that this is the subject of a targeted attack. With regard to the funds allocated for the renovation of a hostel, one of the conditions was, firstly, to carry out the distribution with the participation of the students. Secondly, to create an organization of student control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u155	To the question of Sofia University, perhaps in your right to dodge, you will answer. Here's a line, Mrs. Anastasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u156	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! You know that, for which I am grateful, you have provided me with the inspection report, and I, with a great deal of those things that you have carried out here, have come to my attention. Frankly, the inspection report didn't satisfy me. Yeah, it's a report, it's officially describing and listing technical parameters, but in practice they don't answer my question. The inspection, first of all, covers only eight rooms. They have cited how many rooms in a block, more than a thousand rooms. Surprising are the findings of the type Everyone knows that condensation is produced in wet weather, and it only starts now, and there is no way that experts exactly in the warmest week I saw when the check was done, to have registered this. However, the pictures that I can provide you and which the students have sent me are categorical. In addition, the report describes the elements from which the frames are made, it is clear that the frames are made of something. The point is, according to experts, the lowest quality frames have been used. The report does not answer, in my opinion, the most important question: for all repairs, how much money to spend? How much is the renovation of a room coming up? Why has everything been done with such cheap materials, provided that this year alone over eight million leva have been allocated for these two or three entrances? Why it's put into operation bl. 55 On condition that kitchen cabinets are not installed yet, and the masters repair something every day after repair? Why are the notebooks at the doormen's doorsteps a question from the students' students filled with requests for repairs after repairs? It is not clear why when opening a block for repair are exported all batteries from the taps, which are property of Sofia University. You know that students see everything, are not stored, but are being scrapped completely new sinks. And so on, and so on, they give me a number of other examples. Perhaps under the rules of administration, bureaucracy and public procurement has been done like people, and no gaps can be found, but the living capacity, as I read in the report, and according to the students, may be from a bureaucratic point of view correct, but from a human point of view is not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u157	Get it over with.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u158	Yeah, I'm done. Someone may think that these facts are domesticisms or that we as opposition are always dissatisfied and we cannot appreciate how much money is being allocated to higher schools and that will not be true. It's just that state money should be spent responsibly thinking about the quality of repairs and thinking about students living in these rooms. I hope that, with the new powers given to the Ministry of Education and Science for more serious control over the activities of higher education institutions, including financial institutions, will say their word, and from the point of view of control, such omissions will not be allowed in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u159	Thank you. Would you like to use holes, Mr. Minister? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u160	I thank Mrs. Anastasova. She also raised further questions.......... which I have no way to answer. I make a commitment only to ask for additional information to provide you with answers to as much of these questions as possible. Yes, we have the possibility of financial control, they are under our Internal Audit Unit and as a top executive. But the fact is, you know that there are nearly 400 units to the Ministry, one part of them is quite large like Sofia University. If I tell you that we are carrying out widespread total control, that we have the capacity to carry out such ubiquitous control, I will lie to you, but when we have received a signal, we have reacted. In this sense, we will also try to answer the additional questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u161	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question to the Minister of Education and Science Mr. Krasimir Valchev is from the National Representative Smilyana Niva-Krusteva on the implementation of the strategic objectives of the Ministry of Education and Science for socialization of children from ethnic minorities. Mrs. Krasteva, I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u162	Dear Minister! The strategic objectives of the Ministry of Education and Science, which you are leading, are: complete socialization of children and students from ethnic minorities, ensuring equal access to education, validating intercultural education as an integral part of the process of modernization of the Bulgarian education system, preserving and developing the cultural identity of these children and students. Last school year, mobile groups were created that went through the addresses of children who were behind the system. This year, given the situation with the COVID-19 pandemic, this approach is not possible. My question is: how are the strategic goals of the Ministry for full socialization implemented on the ground? How is equal access to quality education guaranteed for these students? Is there an information campaign among parents and how many students from ethnic minorities are covered by children in Haskovo region? And now, in view of the current situation, since yesterday 80 080 children from Haskovo region have passed online training. Many of them do not have electronic devices for the implementation of such training. How will the training be conducted with these children?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u163	Thank you, Ms. Niva. Mr. Secretary, come in. You have three minutes to respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u164	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Niva! Effective inclusion, socialization, integration of every child in the educational system is a major factor in living in a more harmonious and prosperous society. Even if 80% of people live well, if we have 20% off, we won't have this feeling, and those excluded from society are mostly those who are prematurely dropped out of the education system or who the education system has failed to incorporate effectively. For many years each year I have dared to claim the last 20 years, if you look at it, a new measure has been introduced to encourage access, the scope of the system and the free textbooks, and the full-time organization, and the scholarships have been extended, and the aids have been more or more in all these years, the school snacks... But it is obvious that only with assistance, with carrot this is not enough, so every system has the principle of mandatory because, however critical it may sound, the obligation in this case guarantees the right to education of the child, as one part of the parents does not have the necessary responsibility and attitude towards education. Unfortunately, in recent decades, we have allowed these parents' percentage to increase. In the previous decades of each next generation, parents have been more educated, and we have had on average more uneducated parents with lower education than the average. That is why we decided to start activities under the Preschool and School Education Act and under the People's Education Act. And before that, you know that territorial responsibility for the scope and exercise of the right to education of children was replaced by the municipalities. Yeah, but this concept didn't work. The municipalities didn't have enough capacity, they were responsible for a number of laws and sectors, so in a sense we replaced this concept. We said the most we rely on schools, kindergartens, teachers, but supported by all other institutions. That's what we did on the Mechanism. The mechanism initially produced a very good result with regard to the initial registration and a large part of the children who were additionally covered are from pre-school age. By the way, I'll say one exception is key, the mandatory range in preschool age. This is the age in which children develop most cognitive, communicative, social-emotional skills and the earlier these children from families whose mother tongue is not Bulgarian, the stronger the effectiveness is. Then is the strongest pedagogical intervention, the strongest is integration. These children, if included in preschool age, much less drop out, much more often reach a high school stage and acquire employability. That is why we have proposed extending this measure to four-year-old children. The most additional children were enrolled at 5 and 6 years old, and there we raised the range factor to 92%. Unfortunately, in 4-year-olds, I'm just giving you an example, it's 78%. I will provide you with data for 2020 compared to 2017, specifically for Haskovo region by age group. I wanted to tell you that the mechanism worked in terms of initial recording, but the challenge remains to keep these children and to get them to go to school regularly, which is the more difficult one. This requires daily work, requires daily communication with parents. That's what teams do. Even if they can't go around teachers, they call parents every day when the child hasn't attended school or hasn't arrived in time for school. This is the work of the... to constantly persuade parents. In education the efforts and results happen with the accumulation of multi-day, multi-annual work and simply should not weaken the work. This is the recipe not to weaken the work on the Mechanism. Yes, it has been hindered, physical tours have been hindered, but it continues at the moment. Now we will focus on the four-year-olds when municipalities decide to include the measure, as you know that there was a postponement period... I'll keep going in the back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u165	Mrs. Nieva, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u166	Dear Minister, I did not hear a specific answer: will you be able to keep the children from minorities in school and how will you work with them? I'll give you the following information. According to the media, information was released in a transmission of bTV that last year about 40 thousand children could not enter online training. This year more than 5,000 children in Northwestern Bulgaria in the settlements they live in do not have the Internet. How will work with these children and this not affect both the quality of teaching the study material and its absorption, at all, the quality of education?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u167	Thank you, Ms. Niva I would not recommend that you quote unverified facts, especially from non-executive media and make the minister answer such questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u168	Thank you. Ms. Nieva, the fact is that these are really our data, almost 10% of the children do not participate effectively in the training in electronic environment. Half of them had declared lack of devices, half of them because of the Internet, but we also have socio-cultural factors -- more than 15% are those children who do not have regular attendance, and it is their parents' commitment to education. This turned out to be key. Much smaller, however, is this percentage in the high school stage. Currently, only the high school stage is training in an electronic environment. It's somewhere around 3.5.4 percent....what we checked. I want to tell you that they are not only socio-economic, but also cultural factors. The fact is that training in an electronic environment is a compensatory emergency alternative, but it is not a complete substitute. We also have problems with the training process, but mostly with regard to socialization and is a major problem with inequalities. But, again, these inequalities are not socio-economic. We have a lot of children from families who didn't have enough devices, but their parents did their best to study, and vice versa children from families with devices who didn't want to learn. They shared in sermons, but not in the educational process. So these data, again, are extremely conditional. The work of the teacher is key, the mediators continued to work with these children as far as possible. It is much harder to visit homes, so our goal is maximum attendance training. My position next week will be that schools should remain as open as possible and therefore not make central but local decisions. This is not a transfer of responsibility. This is in line with the principle that as little of the system can be of training in an electronic environment, because it is the fact that then we have greater gaps and a much greater difficulty to work with those children that you refer to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u169	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Have a good job! We move on to the next group of questions to the Minister of Interior Mr. Hristo Terziyski. The first question is by Ivan Valentinov Ivanov about an incident in an action of the Ministry of Interior to counter organised crime on 5 October 2020 in Sofia. Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u170	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable colleagues! Dear Minister, according to art. 2 of the Ministry of Interior Act is aimed at protecting the rights and freedoms of citizens, combating crime, protecting national security, fire safety and protecting the population. Unfortunately, separate actions of the Ministry of Interior services put a stain on this function of the Ministry of Interior, which according to our Constitution is one of the Stojeers in defence of statehood. Unfortunately, this case, which we are going to discuss, is a violation of art. 33, para. 1 of the Constitution, where it is said that the dwelling is inviolable. In this regard, I would ask you to answer: how was the invasion of the Ministry of Interior in a private home that has no connection with the action to counter organised crime on 5 October 2020 in the city of Sofia? Has the responsibility of this incident been established? Is there also similar in the last four years and what measures has the Ministry of Interior taken to prevent them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u171	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Terziysky, come in for an answer. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u172	Thank you. Mr. President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, Mr. Ivanov! Operational information has been received in DGBOP on an organised criminal group dealing with possession and distribution of drugs, illegal banking activity, racketeering, extortion and other force actions against debtors, carrying out property and financial fraud, as well as data on trafficking in human beings. After a report in the Specialized Prosecutor's Office on the alert, pre-trial proceedings were initiated. After carrying out a number of operational and search activities, the identity of the members of the group has been identified, including a total of five persons, among whom two heads of the organised criminal group. They've all been convicted. On 5 October 2020, a specialized police operation was carried out under the supervision of the Special Prosecutor's Office, pre-planned investigations against 16 persons, 28 addresses and 10 motor vehicles. In the context of urgency, procedural actions were also carried out at another 10 addresses. Cash was found in the amount of 18 thousand. 600 BGN, gas pistol, drugs, police bat, police lamp, bats, documents related to real estate and multiple computers, electronic media and mobile devices. A total of 19 persons were detained, 30 witnesses were questioned, of which nine were in front of a judge. Five persons have been indicted, four of whom have been subject to a non-retribution measure in custody. The requested verification of the factual situation and of the deficiencies in the organisation of the specialized police operation was completed on 22 October. The Commission has found that disciplinary violations have been committed by the immediate head of the police operation. The Head of Operation has committed violations of professional discipline within the meaning of art. 194, para. 1, t. 1 of the Act on the Ministry of Interior in connection with art. 200, para. 1 et c. 6 of the Ministry of Interior Act. The team's supervisor has allowed gaps in determining the exact address. This shall be considered a violation of the professional discipline within the meaning of art. 194, para. 2, p. 2 in relation to Art. 199, para. 1, t. Three, proposal one. By order of the Director of the General Directorate of Organized Crime, the employees are subject to the penalties provided for in the Law. On the same day, on 5 October 2020, at 6.40 a.m., the head of the operation apologized to the injured family. During the day the damaged entrance door of the apartment was repaired and after coordination with a family member was later purchased and installed a new one. No other cases of penetration of the wrong address have been identified in the last four years by the staff of DGBOP. The management of DGBOP has taken the necessary measures to prevent such incidents in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u173	Thank you, Mr. Terziysky. Mr. Ivanov, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u174	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! I listened carefully to your statement. I'm pretty sure they're listening to him and watching the people who got hurt in that accident. The aim of the issue is both the MPs and the Bulgarian citizens to make sure that in the future such incidents and similar stains on the reputation of the Ministry will not happen. Because if this thing becomes a practice, and I hope it doesn't happen, we've had cases like this in the past. [[Reply of MP Stanislav Ivanov.]] Mr. Ivanov, if you have a line, say it from the stands, not here, in front of me.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u175	I have no right.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u176	It is also delightful to hear that such incidents have not occurred in the last four years, and I hope that there will be none in the future. Because, Minister, if the professional error is frequent, you know that this will become a political responsibility and your commitment is that such incidents are not allowed in the future. I hope to hear from you here once again that you will take all the necessary measures for further organisation, reorganization of these teams and the way in which they are acting, because what we have learned from the conversations with these injured citizens, the attitude of the employees themselves has not been in order with the way in which they have communicated with them, to not use the obscene words that have been said. The question is that this is really the thing in the future, as you said, not to repeat, so that the prestige of the Ministry of Interior is not damaged from here on, which is one of the foundations of statehood in Bulgaria and this burden is on your shoulders now and in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u177	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Terziysky, would you like to use the back? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u178	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, General Directorate of Organized Crime since the beginning of this week has conducted three operations in which searches and seizures have been carried out at many addresses. These operations have not become available on tactical grounds, and I would like to assure you that the heads of the service are taking all measures to prevent such incidents. Moreover, I assume you know that thanks to the work of the Office.......................... in 2018, the issue of organized crime was removed from the Cooperation and Assessment Mechanism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u179	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question is from a significant group of MPs in the group: the MPs Krasimir Yankov, Valeri Zablyanov, Georgi Andreyev, Dimitar Stoyanov, Lalo Kirilov, Nikolay Ivanov and Chavdar Velinov, about the actions taken to meet the demands of employees of the Ministry of Interior, who participated in the system of measures to protect the population from the spread of COVID-19. Mr. Iankov, if you'd like to discuss your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u180	Dear Minister, Mr Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! During this year, the employees of the Ministry of Interior were involved and actively involved in the system of measures taken by the state to protect the population from the spread of COVID-19. They, together with doctors, stood on the front line in the fight against this insidious disease and took mainly the burden of the measures applied, amassing thousands of hours of overtime in adverse weather conditions, immediate contact with infected and sick and others. In the performance of these responsible tasks, they were highly appreciated by both the management of the state and the Bulgarian citizens. Under the assumption that next year there will be a 10% increase in the salaries of all civil servants, employees of the Ministry of Interior were not included in the list of first-line participants in the fight against COVID-19, or at least not all of them. All this has caused great discontent, as at present are protesting Kardzhali, Haskovo, Plovdiv, Burgas, Varna and elsewhere. Protest action is expected to expand. In view of the foregoing, I ask you to answer the following question: what measures does the Ministry's management take to deal with the current situation with the worrying calming of employees and meeting their fair demands?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u181	Thank you, Mr. Yankov, as well as the other MPs who raised the question. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u182	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear gentlemen Jankov, Zablyanov, Andreyev, Stoyanov, Kirilov, Ivanov and Velinov, the Ministry of Interior is among those institutions the state and society rely very much on to deal with the spread of COVID-19. Our medics, doctors, nurses and paramedics from the Ministry of Interior hospital participate together with all their colleagues from across the country in the battle for the lives of those who have already been infected. At the same time, all police officers are involved in implementing and controlling the anti-epidemic measures resulting from the orders of the Minister of Health. Teams have been working on a single schedule that hasn't been changed in the last seven-eight months. Both doctors and policemen are on the front line in the fight against COVID-19, so both the political and professional leadership of the Ministry express our great gratitude for the dedicated work of all our colleagues. For the efforts made and in order to further stimulate with individual cash prizes are awarded employees directly involved in the following activities: control and verification of passers-by at the established crossing points at the entry-exit roads of the cities and settlements under quarantine and at border crossing points; physical control of persons placed under quarantine; patrol-post activity directly related to the implementation of tasks for the implementation of the orders issued by the Minister of Health to limit the spread of COVID-19. The political and professional leadership of the Ministry of Interior has not stopped social dialogue with police union organizations. We have informal conversations with them and hold formal meetings to find as quickly as possible solutions regarding their demands. On the basis of this good social dialogue, we have achieved results together, namely, changes in the regulatory framework and the resolution of long-standing financial problems related to better payment of police work. Thanks to our good partnership, including the honourable MPs, we have adopted amendments to the Ministry of Interior Act on the payment of overtime to employees on an abnormal working day, which will cost more than 60 million. lv. And it concerns more than 13,000 employees. The draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria, respectively the draft budget of the Ministry of Interior for 2021, provides for an increase of the main remuneration by 10 per cent, with the stake being for more than 48 thousand employees and more than 154 million employees. lv. Last but not least, the request for an increase in the basic remuneration of the Ministry of Interior officials by up to 30 percent has already been stated by the Ministry of Finance. However, as early as next week, we are launching another round of talks with all trade unions in the Ministry of Interior. After their end, we will schedule a meeting in the Social Partnership Council, with the aim set by all of us to achieve a unified position in favour of the Bulgarian police officer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u183	Thank you. Line, Mr. Iankov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u184	Dear Minister, you know how engaging, how ungrateful and stressful most of all, how much it costs to be an employee of the Ministry of Interior. It's a tough job, there's a lot of trouble, and the law is constantly changing. It is about street workers, the border, the fire, those who work without the necessary minimum of material and technical collateral, in case of lack of equipment, cars, fuels, supplies, aids and personnel. Mr. Minister, are you asking yourself what you can do for better working conditions, adequate remuneration and better attitude towards the employees of the Ministry of Interior? If you're asking yourself that, you're on the right track. But to go the way in which your subordinates, motivated, willing to do anything to do their duty, defend and protect fairer demands for more adequate remuneration. It's not enough what you're predicting next year. I also address Bulgarian citizens: when everyone flees the danger, the policeman stays and throws himself against it. Because he's a cop, because ensuring security is his job. The dignity of our savior and hero should not be ignored, he is in a situation in which no one wants to be. Dear compatriots, support the fair demands for a decent pay for the labor of the Bulgarian policeman! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u185	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Mr. Minister, would you like to use the backrest? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u186	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Yankov, thank you for the support expressed in your words about the Bulgarian police officer. I am also a Bulgarian police officer and indeed our Bulgarian police officer works under very difficult conditions. From the previous question you have heard that we are expected to fight organised crime, we are expected to counter conventional crime, we are expected to counter illegal migration and migration, so I assure you, the political and professional leadership of the Ministry every day we work to improve the work and the conditions under which our employees work. I do not want to list how many material and social benefits are increasing every day, and I assure you that our work in this direction will be so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-30.u187	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. That concludes parliamentary control. Before closing the meeting, allow me to thank all the MPs who stayed until the end of the meeting, to congratulate you and the entire Bulgarian people with one of the brightest Bulgarian holidays. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
