ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, before continuing with the item on the agenda today, I will give you one message: the Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and the Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that, in addition to letter No 903-09-88 of 27 December 2019 on the passage through the territorial sea, the non-military residence in the inland waters and the visit of the port of Varna for the period from 25 to 27 January 2020, including the Second Permanent Defence Group of NATO, including vessels from the Navy of Romania and the Republic of Turkey, will be joined by a vessel from the composition of the Federal Republic of Germany. The notification was received on 16 January 2020, inc. No 003-09-6, and granted to the Defence Committee. We continue with the item of today's agenda: Report on the implementation of the Law on the Export Control of Products RELATED TO THE RECEIVED AND THE TECNOOLOGY OF DOUBLE USE IN 2018 BY THE INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF DEFENCE AND SECURITY OF DELIVERY TO THE MINISTERAL COUNCIL. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 5 September 2019. The report belongs to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Here you go, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u2	"COMMODITY" on the Report on the Implementation of the Law on Export Control of Defence Products and Dual-Use Products in 2018 by the Interdepartmental Council on Defence Industry and Security of Supply to the Council of Ministers, No 902-00-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 September 2019. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting, held on 18 December 2019, examined and discussed a Report on the implementation of the Law on Export Control of Defence-related Products and Double-Use Products in 2018 by the Interdepartmental Council on Defence Industry and Security of Supply to the Council of Ministers, No 902-00-29. The meeting was attended by the Council of Ministers Anyu Angelov. Secretary of the Interdepartmental Council on Defence Industry and Security of Supply to the Council of Ministers, and by the Ministry of Economy Desislava Doycheva State Expert at the Internationally Controlled Trade and Security Directorate. On behalf of the importer, the report was presented by Mr. Anyu Angelov. In 2018, the Interdepartmental Council on Defence Industry and Security of Supply held 8 meetings, which dealt with 94 applications of companies to issue documents. 23 one-year export and import licences for defence-related products (PSOs); 27 five-year export and import licences for SSRs; one five-year transport licence for SSRs between two third countries; 39 certificates for registration of brokerage activities with SSRs between two third countries; 26 certificates for registration and transfer of SSRs; 16 certificates for registration of brokerage activities with SSRs between two third countries; 11 amendments to export and import licences for SSRs and 2 amendments to registration certificates for brokerage activities in SSRs. For the first time in 2018, the companies that declared a one-year export and import licence for SCOs were 23. The Interdepartmental Council in 2018: - stopped the action due to a breach of the reliability criterion, of those issued to "Avala-V" Ltd., Sofia City, export and import license of SSR, certificate for registration of transfer of SSR and registration certificate for brokerage activity with SSR, the license was revoked, the registrations made have been deleted and the certificates issued have been revoked; - terminate at the request of the holder of the certificate of registration and transfer of the CPC, at the request of the holder of the certificate of registration and transfer of the CPC; - refunded on application of the Silverprint Group, Sofia City, the operation of the certificate for registration for transfer of SSR; - examine and accept, for information, 20 notifications of changes to the circumstances in which export control documents of the SSP have been issued which require amendments to them; - postpone the submission of additional documents, making a decision on the application of 3 companies; - carried out checks at 31 companies that have carried out export, import and transfer to the CPC. The administrative court of Sofia City rejected the appeal of "Emko" Ltd. against a decision of the Interdepartmental Council of 25 July 2017, stopping for a period of six months the export and import license issued for SSR, certificate of registration for the transfer of SSR and certificate of registration for brokerage activity with SSR. The Interdepartmental Council noted an increase in the number of applicants for export control documents, as well as the number of documents held by them from 202 pieces at the end of 2007 to 629 pieces at the end of 2018. The number of licensed and registered forms increased from 191 pieces at the end of 2014 to 266 at the end of 2018. It is assessed as a positive fact that the increase in the number of applications for changing the circumstances under which licences were issued. At the same time, the increased number of applicants for export control documents and the number of documents they hold makes it difficult to carry out administrative control. National Representative Rumen Gechev raised questions about increasing the number of exporters of production from the state plant. After the discussion is concluded and the vote with results: the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to take the following to the National Assembly: Project! DECISION on the Report on the Implementation of the Law on Export Control of Defence Products and Dual-Use Products in 2018 by the Interdepartmental Council on Defence Industry and Security of Supply to the Council of Ministers The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to art. 70, para. 2 of the Law on Export Control of Defence-related Products and Dual-Use Products and Technologies HAS DECIDED Adopts the Report on the Implementation of the Law on Export Control of Defence-related Products and Dual-Use Products in 2018 by the Interdepartmental Defence Industry and Supply Security Board of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. Colleagues, I give the floor for debate. I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the Report on the implementation of the Law on Export Control of Defence Products and Dual-Use Products in 2018 by the Interdepartmental Council on Defence Industry and Security of Supply to the Council of Ministers and the relevant Draft Decision on this report, which Mr. Kanev just read. Vote 152 MPs: 107 against 2, abstention 43. The motion is accepted. With this, we have exhausted the plenary programme. We continue with Parliamentary control at 11:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u4	Colleagues, we continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. First, I'll give out the questions and the written answers. A question was received from MP Tasco Ermenkov and a group of MPs at Temenuzhka Petkova, Minister of Energy, concerning the policy of the Ministry of Energy regarding the future of coal thermal power plants in Bulgaria. Response should be made in the plenary sitting on 24 January 2020. The written answers from: - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov to the National Representative Krasimir Jankov; - Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov on a question from the National Representative Krasimir Jankov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order, Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov from the National Representative Krasimir Jankov; - Minister of Justice Danail Kirilov on a question from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva on a question from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov; - Minister of Culture Boel Banov on a question from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva on a question from the National Representative Nadia Klisurska-Zekova; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a question from the National Representative Nadia Klisurska-Zekova; - Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev on a question from the National Representative Nadia Klisurska-Zekova; - Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov to a question from the National Representative Desislav Chukolov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva on a question from the National Representative Dzhevdet Chakarov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Yavor Bojankov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a question from the National Representative Smilyana Mitova; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to a question from the MPs Georgi Gokov and Manol Genov. Let's move on, guys. First is the inquiry to Krasimir Karakachanov "Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence, who will answer the questions of the MPs Desislav Chukolov and Pavel Shopov about the Bulgarian military contingents abroad. Here you are, Mr. Shopov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u5	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues! Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you are a historian, it is known and so has always been in the history of mankind, and in the past the enslaved equivalent of this word is currently the Colonized, the conquered states have provided their military contingents to the master nations for various purposes. Usually they didn't participate in the battle parties, but these contingents generally had the most logical significance, they were involved in the revant-garde parts, they were important for support in the rear. I make no distinction with what has been happening in Bulgaria and Bulgaria in the last 30 years. If throughout communism there was one active participation, dictated and imposed by then the Communist Soviet Empire, participation in Czechoslovakia cost us two victims and extremely many negatives in the historical and geostrategic sense. I think it's disparaging... It is said that volunteers were involved in the Korean War, during the Vietnam War some logistical assistance, but not actively... For 45 years, the participation was one in Czechoslovakian events and campaign. In the last 30 years Bulgaria has participated repeatedly in missions, in many missions not for the Bulgarian national interest, but dictated, imposed and refined in order to bring the Bulgarian politicians to the masters. Starting from Cambodia, where Bulgaria has made serious losses and suffered sacrifices, over all these 30 years we have been involved in foreign wars, we are also currently involved with contingents abroad. My question to you is: in which countries there are currently Bulgarian servicemen and we participate with contingents; what is the number of these contingents; how many Bulgarian servicemen are involved in them; what are the funds that have been made by anyone so far, and do we know how many billion have gone for these participations, including on feathers, in the various wars in which Bulgaria participates? The most important thing in my question to you is: when will the Bulgarian servicemen from abroad finally be withdrawn and returned to the country?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u6	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. For your answer, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, please come in. You have five minutes to respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u7	Thank you. Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Shopov, since you started with historical retrospects, very correctly said I am a historian. I'll tell you that your logic wasn't originally correct. It wasn't just the enslaved peoples who were involved in the armies of empires. I will give you an example from Bulgarian history: Bulgarians are in the Balkans and for a long time carry out the mission of federales, i.e. military instructors who protect the Byzantine Empire from the attacks of other tribes long before Asparuh came here to the Balkans. So your logic is originally wrong, making the historical analogy with the enslaved peoples, because the Bulgarians were never enslaved people. Coming here to the Balkans, they have come as warriors and to this day they are warriors. The Bulgarian army has no slaves and the Bulgarian state is not enslaved by anyone, so your theory somehow will say it quite frankly: very serious exhales. It's a matter of historical knowledge, not just emotions. Specifically, your question. On the basis of the Council of Ministers' Decision in the last 20 years, the Republic of Bulgaria has participated in the following missions: In the mission for preparation, advice and assistance in Afghanistan, Bulgaria participates with up to 160 soldiers divided into: national element, e-intelligence group, Kandahar airport security company, team of advisors for training of the Afghan national army and staff officers. The duration of each such mission of our servicemen is six months. In the mission in Iraq to advise, train and implement reforms in the sector, we are involved with two staff officers. In the KFOR operation in Kosovo, we participate with up to 26 troops for the duration of the mission. In the European Union training mission in Mali, we are involved with a medical team of four servicemen. In the European Union's observation mission in Georgia, we are involved with five soldiers. In the European Union military operation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we participate with up to 11 soldiers. In the European Union naval operation to prevent, prevent and deter acts of piracy and armed robbery off the Somali coast, we are involved with an officer. In the European Union naval operation in the Central Mediterranean, we participate with a staff officer. The financial resources you are asking about, which finance the participation of our servicemen in these missions and operations, are not billions at all, as you may have accidentally confused yourself with millions. It's not billions, it's as follows: for the mission of preparation, counseling and assistance in Afghanistan, it's 14 million. Three hundred and 500 leva.; for the mission to Iraq, the training that I would like to highlight with our two officers has been evacuated, the cost is 533 thousand. £800.; for the KFOR operation in Kosovo, 1 million. 915,000. £400.; for the maritime security operation 1 million 959 thousand. 100 leva.; for the training mission in Mali; 484 thousand. £600.; for the European Union observation mission in Georgia lv.; for the operation 343 thousand. £700.; for naval operation lv.; for the naval operation 300 leva. In fact, the amount at which we cover the costs of our servicemen is 20 million. 932 thousand. £400. Thank you. I'll have time to finish the data that Mr. Shopov... In fact, these are the financial costs. One second, one more time, to remember them well 20 million. 932 thousand. 400 BGN, not billions.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u8	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Shopov, come in for two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u9	Don't act like you misunderstood me, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. When I talked about billions of expenses, I said that these costs were for the entire period, for the whole period, and not just what was voted for this year, and what the Bulgarian budget and the Bulgarian taxpayer gave for 2020. Billions were the costs 5 years ago for what had gone for the contingent in Iraq, which was from a few hundred people I was talking about. For all these 30 years of transition, for all the missions, billions have gone to extract chestnuts from the fire for foreign interests. It was like that in Iraq. It's like this everywhere. Thank you for enumerating all the missions, for some of which the Bulgarians do not suspect at all because they are silent. For Mali or where else were you, on the other side of the world, I do not know what Bulgarian servicemen do, what is the Bulgarian national interest to train, to guard? If I didn't make a mistake, I counted them one by one, that's eight places, apparently eight hot spots where we perform tasks where we have absolutely no interests. Very or very little, if you will, what you have listed are expenses, and why give this money? But not just that. Here are also the geostrategic interests and especially the security of the people who are there, because these days it has been heard that rockets are falling even in American bases, besieging and attacking embassies that the two of our service officers in Iraq were, notice, in a safe place. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I expected them to be pulled out the way all other peoples did.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u10	Time, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u11	Meanwhile, after we asked you with Mr. Chukolov the question, the US president announced that he would withdraw four thousand troops from Iraq...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u12	Mr. Shopov, time, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u13	...and my parents are standing there.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u14	Thank you. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u15	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Shopov, of both questions you repeated several times the words I do not know. In fact, both I and my colleagues in the Chamber and the viewers realized that you really don't know why you're asking and what you're asking. It's a fact. You really don't know and talk in general. First of all, there's no sending contingents because someone likes it, or some master has ordered something. Mr. Chukolov! Excuse me, Mr. Shopov, Mr. Chukolov didn't like to come to the gym today, I don't know why, but he's asking some serious questions, but he's not in the room, and the security of every country is expensive. What are we doing in Afghanistan? Afghanistan has been one of the main outbreaks and breeding sites of radical Islam and radical terrorism for many years. If you have forgotten, go back, read, inform yourself. The situation in Afghanistan cannot be indifferent, because you see that not a small part of these illegal immigrants who are trying to cross the European border are just from Afghanistan. With them, along with people who want an easier and better life, there are people who come with other security objectives, i.e. they are a threat to the security of European countries, and we are part of these European countries. The amount we spend in Iran to prepare our servicemen to react in similar situations, to create contacts through which we will then receive, and we are currently getting information to prevent risks and threats to our national security, is far from great. What are we doing in Kosovo, you say? Kosovo is our border. Kosovo is literally on the Bulgarian ethnic border and we cannot care about what is happening in the territory of a country that has similar problems. It's the same in Bosnia. You remember, if you've forgotten, there have been civil wars there for a long time. There are still quite radical elements of the different ethnic communities. It is very clear that there are also people who are fighting on the side of radical Islamic groups such as ISIL, both in Syria and Iraq. The presence of our servicemen there is absolutely justified, appropriate, because in this way we not only prepare them, but these people have information and then when such problems arise and individuals are prepared to react adequately. For Mali, the mission is medical or humanitarian. You say billions in time backwards. I'll read you the weather reference back: 2014 The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv.; 2015 The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. I'm talking about the big numbers; 2016 The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article Where are the billions? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Don't try to make unnecessary false claims, because there are no billions, even less billions in Iraq. There are no billions! So when it comes to national security and that, in a similar situation, I would say, a real, combat situation, our servicemen get real training to be able, if necessary, not to give God, to react on the territory of the country, to have these people prepared, I don't see why all this is necessary, I'll call it frankly cheap, but very cheap, torn populism.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u16	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Shopov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u17	Look, Karakachanov, you're trying to populize, justify... [[Noise and lines from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u18	No, not to you. Mr. Shopov, let's have some respect!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u19	...to justify and...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u20	To justify it!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u21	Something he wasn't a fan of during the election campaign. [[Replications from OP.]] In front of me is the election program of the United Patriarchs. [[Replications from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u22	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u23	Mr. Karakachanov, paragraph 9, last sentence: [[Replications from OP.]] You've been elected MP, and from there you've become deputy prime minister. And I continue: The withdrawal of all Bulgarian troops from foreign countries. Mr. Karakachanov, please pay attention. I want you to answer me why that point should have... And now I'm gonna give it to you to remember it, and I'm gonna give it to you. As for the billions you are trying to disprove that they are given, you are quoting figures from 2014 - 2015, when most of the contingents, the large number of Bulgarian military troops were withdrawn. The lot of money, the hundreds of millions every year were given before that. Then the many victims were given. At that time it was estimated that the number of people in Bulgaria gave as a percentage the most victims in Iraq. Back then, not only were Bulgarian military killed, but because of our participation were killed working Bulgarian specialists, Bulgarian citizens who for one reason or another resided in Iraq, including drivers from international transport. Now, by justifying that there are Bulgarian military units in Afghanistan, they are our boys -- those 190 people.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u24	160.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u25	What does it matter to you that these 190 people are standing in Kandahar? Kandahar, which is one of the hottest points! Media reports on missile attacks at Kandahar airport are constantly being issued. [[Replying from the O.P.: "Search! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u26	Mr. Shopov, time, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u27	We're in constant fear of these people's lives, but that's what you're gonna do. There was a joke, an anecdote at one point...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u28	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u29	Why are our military in Iraq and Afghanistan? They're standing here to wave goodbye to the handkerchiefs, to have someone send the American soldiers home when they go home.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u30	Mr. Shopov, your time is up. Let's be strict! [[The President turns off the microphones. The orator continues to speak with microphones off.]] Thank you, Mr. Shopov. Thank you to the Deputy Prime Minister for participating in today's parliamentary control. Vladislav Goranov will now respond to the Minister of Finance. Ask by MPs Nikolay Tsonkov and Anton Kutev about planned and implemented policies through the budget. Here you are, Mr. Tsonkov, to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u31	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister! The state budget for each year is perhaps the most important, basic law that the National Assembly adopts. It is not just an act of the National Assembly. In the National Assembly as a main body in the country, and we are a parliamentary republic, the policy for the next year is drafted in a period of 12 months, including the financial parameters of this policy, the basis on which to step. That is, the state budget is developing the philosophy that will follow the government next year, of course, with the approval and mainly with the act that is being done by the National Assembly, naturally, after debates. The budget shall plan the funds for each sector and at the end of the year, rather at the beginning of the following year following the expiry of the budget year, account shall also be taken of the implementation of the budget. My colleague Anton Kutev and I are asking this question because it happens that every year the budget funds are planned, and at the end of the year there is a sharp increase in expenditure in some of the sectors outside the parliament, outside of a decision of the National Assembly. This has become a fundamental practice in the parliamentary republic of.. to circumvent the decisions of the National Assembly. I give you an example of the estimated expenditures in gross domestic product and in the budget of the Ministry of Defence for last year, in which 1.58% of gross domestic product were initially laid down, and it turned out that suddenly, although with a budget update, this military expenditure jumped to almost 3.5%. At the same time, we also see in other sectors how sharply at the end of the year, even without a decision of the National Assembly, budget spending has increased very significantly. In this sense, we are interested in what is the ratio between the planned allocation of expenditure from gross domestic product in the 2019 budget and the implemented expenditure at the end of the budget year? What are the policies laid down by the government in the state budget for 2019 and what is the result of the implementation of the budget?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u32	The weather, Mr. Tsonkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u33	Yeah, I'm done. And two further questions. What is the rate of military expenditure at the beginning of the year and what is the actual rate at the end of the year? And how much money is allocated to the budget outside the National Assembly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u34	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonkov. For an answer, the Minister of Finance. Mr. Goranov, you're welcome to develop the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u35	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Tsonkov, Mr. Kutev, the State Budget Act can indeed be defined as an important law which adopts the National Assembly because it provides funding for the main policies and priorities of the government, as well as fulfilling the obligations of the authorities of the state to provide public services to citizens and businesses. If we look at the spending policies of the consolidated fiscal programme for 2019, which are fully motivated and accompanied by the corresponding estimates and effects in the updated medium-term budgetary forecast for 2019 With the greatest social importance and immediate effect on people's welfare were planned measures for 2019 relating to income policy, and in 2019 increased the cost of staff in the budget sphere by 10%, the remuneration of pedagogical staff by an average of 20%, as well as pension policy measures. You know that from 1 July 2019 all pensions granted until 31 December 2018, 5.7% were increased and the maximum pension amount was increased to BGN 1200. In line with its priorities, the government has ensured the implementation of measures for the development of national defence capabilities, education, health and social policy, focusing on the support of vulnerable social groups. Based on the information available on the reporting parameters for the implementation of the consolidated fiscal programme, we can note that all these measures are fully implemented. I agree that the Public Finance Act specifically describes the rules and procedures for the accounting of the budget and that the Bulgarian Parliament will receive the specific and detailed report with the final data based on the information from all senior officers, which are part of the consolidated fiscal programme. In addition to these priorities, a constant policy focus in recent years is the development of infrastructure, which is a major prerequisite for attracting investment, creating employment and higher added value in the economy. For another year funds were provided for the realization of large infrastructure projects, including for the construction of new sections of Hemus Motorway and Europe Motorway, as well as for repairs of facilities of Thrace and Hemus Motorway, sections of first-class, second-class and third-class road network. The transport infrastructure development policies will contribute to stimulating the economy in these regions of the country, which must achieve a forwarding development in order to attract new investments. Viewed on a functional basis, budget expenditure reflects the main policy directions within the 2019 resource. The total planned expenditure under the consolidated fiscal programme with the updated estimates of the Law, in this sense your defence example is inadequate, as quite legally the defence expenditure has been increased in the same law, as the Constitution provides, represents 37,9% of the estimated gross domestic product, while according to preliminary reporting, the total expenditure under the consolidated fiscal programme for 2019 amounts to 37,1% of the projected GDP, representing 97,8 per cent of the annual estimate. The most relative share of expenditure under the consolidated fiscal programme is social security, support and care. The funds planned for this function for the year represent 11.8% of the GDP forecast, and according to preliminary reporting they have reached a little bit more. "12.0% of the estimated gross domestic product, which is 101.7 per cent compared to the plan. Supplements to pensions of pensioners with the lowest pensions were paid in 2019 for Easter and Christmas, higher expenditure on programmes, activities and social security services, support and employment, including European funds. The costs incurred also reflect the effects of the abovementioned measures in the 2019 pensions policy. Another major sector, which is among the priorities in spending policies for the past year, is the defence and security sector. The funds planned with the updated estimates for 2019 for this function represent 5,7 per cent of the estimated GDP and the reported expenditure is 5.5 per cent. Another major priority is the costs of the health sector. The planned for 2019 is 4.4 per cent, a report of 4.5 per cent of the gross domestic product, or 2.4 per cent over the 100 per cent, and the excess is linked to expenditure incurred at the end of the year on the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for the payment of overdue liabilities to abroad at the expense of better implementation of the NHIF's budget revenues from contributions. Education costs also hold a significant share in the common costs of the consolidated fiscal programme. For 2019 are 3.5 per cent according to the forecast and according to the report "3.8 per cent of gross domestic product." The implementation of the basic parameters of the consolidated fiscal programme in 2019 has developed in accordance with the updated framework established for the year, with the revenue being met in full by 100,5% compared to the annual estimate. In the part of the expenditure, as already stated, the main priorities in the policies were realised, with the expenditure reported for the year being 97.8% of the annual estimates. Moreover, even after the one-off costs related to the implementation of the project for the acquisition of a new type of military aircraft for the Air Force, in implementation of the National Assembly Decision of 16 January 2019, amounting to 1,8 per cent of the estimated gross domestic product, the deficit at the end of the year amounted to 0,97% of the projected GDP and remained well below the updated State Budget Act of 2.1 per cent of the gross domestic product. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Detailed information on the implementation of the budget by policy areas and budgetary programmes, with which all Members of the National Assembly will be able to be acquainted, will be provided in the deadlines regulated by the Public Finance Act for the preparation and presentation of the annual accounts, which are within the competence and responsibility of the authorising officers with a budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u36	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Kutev, come in for two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u37	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, colleagues! I agree that this conversation should have taken place, probably will be held not now, but in a few months when you have the final analysis of the implementation of the 2019 budget procedure, but nevertheless I think there are clear discrepancies. In fact, we in a budget update procedure were not actually seen in 2019. We voted on some money that was in the context of fighters and certain military costs, but the question of how expenditure is allocated in the budget is key. With the adoption of the state budget we accept some distinctions, that is, we assume that the military costs are 1.6 and they turn out to be 5.7. This thing whether the Bulgarian people and whether our voters, whether on the left or on the right, want 1.6 or they want 5.7 military costs and what is the ratio between military costs and social costs that is the meaning of the budgetary procedure. The fact is that we, through some other law, have added a billion and 800 million. lv. for example, which, by the way, have been added for seven years and not just for one in the decision, but this is a separate issue, which I think is a key parliamentary right, is not a right of the government. So my two questions are as follows: One question is clear: how much was at stake? That's it. We ask what are the policies within last year, which are laid down and implemented. How much was the budget adopted for 2019 for military expenditure as a percentage and how much was it implemented? And my second question is: how much was the money that was practically distributed outside the conversation in parliament, which includes surpluses, of course, not just on the airplane deal? In my opinion, there are investment costs of the Council of Ministers, which have been reassigned. So how many billion were reassigned without parliament's participation last year?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u38	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. For your answer, Mr. Minister, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u39	I am afraid, Mr. Kutev, that with accuracy statistical information about the initially planned costs for the group of "Defense" which is part of a function of Defense and Security, including many other budgets, at the moment, to be exact, I will not be able to provide to you, but I pay attention to you that, not by any law, but by the State Budget Act, any expenditure for a group of "Defense" for 2019. With a deliberate amendment to the State Budget Act proposed by the government, according to the provisions of the Constitution, the budget was updated. In this sense, we are talking all the time about how much defence expenditure is to be made here, in this Chamber, and not by any law, but by the State Budget Act. There were years before 2000, when the annual Budget Act was updated repeatedly. In fact, there were years when there wasn't a budget law passed on time, but that's not the debate. With regard to defence costs, we can say that the plan was approximately 1.6 per cent of gross domestic product and added about 1.8 per cent of gross domestic product to this expenditure, which is related to the acquisition of aircraft, so to put it in general. If we add the two numbers together, this should be in the consolidated fiscal programme's account, such as group costs. The number of the budget, which I quoted and which you quote, contains in it the budgets of the Ministry of Interior and other services, which are characterized within the meaning of the budget classification, which is not invented in Bulgaria, it is unified, common, in this regard, the functional cost. In this sense, 1.6 must be compared with the corresponding planning in the group of "Defenses" which is a division of a function of "Defense and Security" and in this sense we will not be able to hold the debate fully. I am ready to provide you with further detailed information in the sub-sections of the functional direction. Your question has been asked at the level of the "Functional" and, in this sense, the answer that is prepared is more widespread. Again, this information is available in the Ministry of Finance and in the Ministry of Defence on the basis of the Methodology for State Financial Statistics and can be provided. I find it difficult to answer the question directly and unambiguously, as it is not contained in the preliminary question, what is the amount of redistribution between separate spending directions. However, I am in a hurry to respond, as I have also commented in the budget debate, that we cannot talk about overexecution of revenue and distribution of surplus to the extent that the surplus represents excess of revenue over expenditure. This, unfortunately, did not take place in 2019 as regards the state budget. The implementation of revenues under the state budget is close to 100%, but slightly less. The overall implementation of the revenues under the consolidated fiscal programme is 100.5 per cent, but it also includes the revenues of social security funds, the revenues of municipalities, and all budgetary organisations in general. In this sense, the redistributions that are carried out in accordance with the Public Finance Act between separate cost indicators are common in the costs voted by the Bulgarian Parliament and it is correct to comment on the question of what redistributions between individual costs the government has carried out on grounds of the Public Finance Act. I'm prepared to provide a specific reference. In fact, it can also be easily acquired by examining the regulations of the Council of Ministers, with which the government has made these compensated changes between the elements of costs. You understand, and I ask for tolerance in this respect that, two weeks after the end of the budget year, the deadlines for providing the detailed reporting information that we have put forward to the budgetary organisations have not yet expired. I am ready to continue working together on this debate, but we need a little more time to draw up the final reporting data, which will, of course, be provided to the National Assembly. At the risk of being dissatisfied, I am prepared to continue this debate, but today I cannot give you a detailed answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u40	Thank you, dear Minister. For your treatment, Mr. Kutev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u41	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, colleagues! I am aware that you cannot give us a detailed answer today, in fact I consider this question to be the beginning of a conversation with you in the framework of the 2019 budget under discussion. Unfortunately, I do not recall meaningful discussions of previous budgets after they have been implemented. We discuss budgets when we import them and very rarely discuss how they are implemented, and this, in my opinion, is key and is very important in general for the functioning of the state. I consider this our question as the beginning of a conversation that will most likely continue after April, when the analysis is finally made by you. It is important to me, however, that for years, this is not a practice introduced by this government of Borisov, for years a lot of money is being redistributed, including a billion and a cuss, a billion and three hundred million for example, which go to the motorway of one-one, some go for military expenses, others for another. This is money that is practically redistributed at the end of the year absolutely fire. Many of them are spent without public procurement and without, in my opinion, the order adopted for our country and for the Constitution. In my opinion, the question of how they are redistributed, what is the ratio between the accepted costs and the final ones is extremely important. This analysis needs to be done. By the way, we had an initiative from BSP two years ago with the idea of limiting the possibility of spending without updating the budget. You understand yourself, and I assume that you understand more than anyone else in this Chamber that one is a process of budget update, it is quite another when a specific decision is made to spend 1 billion. 800 million. lv. The update of the budget speaks about the logic of the budget, that is, how much money our society is willing to spend on military expenditure, how much for social, how much for health. That's another conversation. And the conversation: now we're going to give, we've got some money. $800,000. lv. No more, it's not the same conversation, it doesn't correspond to the political logic of our society. We are a state of parliamentary rule. We MPs, regardless of which side of the House, are assigned to make the budget. My question is aimed at starting a conversation about how Parliament's parliamentary right to define the key budgetary frameworks and what are the mechanisms. By the way, most of them are legal mechanisms. I'm not saying you broke the law. Absolutely not! However, the point is that the laws must be improved and this is our common conversation, especially when the ruling country is GERB, not BSP. We need to find ways to ensure not only this government, but for every next one, the mechanisms... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Madam President. ... on which we do not actually allow the will expressed through parliament to be violated afterwards. Quite different is the conversation about what is the update of the budget and what is the ratio between spending and talking about voting billions and 800 million other costs. He's not the same conversation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u42	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. Let us thank the Minister of Finance for participating in today's parliamentary control. We move on to questions to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ms. Denitsa Sacheva. The first question is from the MPs Georgi Gokov and Vesela Lecheva on sustainability in the provision of social services, care in the home environment in 2020 to the needy people with different types and degrees of disability and people in the inability to self-service by securing the necessary funds from the state budget. Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u43	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Madam Minister, the issue is extremely serious, extremely extensive and comprehensive, because it may not be a very large part of the society that is extremely necessary and dependent on whether they will have a personal assistant, a social assistant or a household assistant. The problem is that at the end of last year and at the beginning of this nearly 13,000 people with disabilities, adults who cannot serve themselves, are left without personal, social assistants and household helpers. There's been a lot of talk about it lately. I even think we started on a line of politicizing the issue, which will not lead us to good results, although you also set that tone of conversation yesterday. This is not the first time, it is in a relapse, because it happens for the third time such a interruption after the completion of the operation "Independent life" under the Operational Program "Human Resources Development", with which this social service was provided by the municipalities. The government tried to make it sustainable over time by financing this activity by decree of the Council of Ministers. Unfortunately, coordination in providing this funding is not good, suggests interruptions and led to the fact that these people are currently without social and personal assistants, and that for some is fatal. You do realize that if a person doesn't have family, he can't serve himself, he can't live at all? Very serious questions follow: who is responsible for the once again created in a relapse unacceptable situation? How will the guilty bear the responsibility for this? Don't tell me in your answer that Maya Manolova, Cornelia Ninova or BSP are guilty of any law, because the majority here passed this law and it has nothing to do with what's happening right now. This is a separate programme which in no way concerns either the Law on Social Services or the Law on Personal Aid. Will funding at all be provided for the continuation of the services of a personal assistant and a domestic assistant provided by the municipalities and when? Will you apologize for the inconveniences caused to all the parties concerned and how will you ensure that they no longer fall into such unacceptable situations and that these people will be served properly rather than insecure over time? Thank you. I apologize for the overdue time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u44	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Mrs. Sacheva, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u45	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, providing support for vulnerable groups is among the main priorities in the work of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. The new Personal Aid Act has set out the terms and conditions for the granting and use of personal assistance by disabled persons regulated as a mechanism based on state-sponsored financial support, individual needs and the choice of disabled persons. By 31 December 2020, the legal limitation shall be in force both in the maximum number of hours and in relation to the user circle of personal aid. A gradual increase in the number of willing to provide and use the personal assistance mechanism is expected due to the annual increase of the minimum wage and the increase of the hourly rate ratio of the minimum wage, which forms the remuneration of assistants based on the hours worked. The provision and financing of this mechanism shall take place from 1 September 2019. We are reading a progressive variation of the target values for its provision. With the provisions of the Decree of the Council of Ministers No 344 of 21 December 2018 on the implementation of the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, the funds for the provision of services were provided under the established order of the municipalities through the Social Assistance Agency to provide support to the persons covered. In the course of the implementation of this decree, a risk was identified for about 12 thousand persons outside the scope of the users of the private aid mechanism. In order to prevent the risk of interruption of the provision of services in the home environment, as well as for a smooth transition to the mechanism, the period for providing and financing those social services has been extended until 31 December 2019. With Final provision of Decree No 180 of 18 July 2019, the Council of Ministers extended the deadline for providing services to 31 December 2019. After January 2020, based on up-to-date data provided by municipalities, the Ministry again concluded that about 12 thousand people had remained without the necessary support. In this regard, we have developed a National Programme "Providing care in the home environment" for inclusion in the draft National Employment Action Plan 2020 in order to ensure employment of unemployed persons as house workers in activities related to the provision of personal care in the home environment of the most deprived, who remain without the necessary care from 1 January 2020. Under this programme, we can provide employment by the end of the year on average to 2,400 unemployed persons on a full-time basis or to 4,800 persons on a four-hour-hour basis. This is also the programme with the largest financial resource in 2020. The provision of social services in the community, including in the home environment, is also part of the scope of the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development." Efforts continued towards care for people with disabilities and elderly people, as well as support for independent and independent lives of vulnerable groups during the implementation of procedures in the implementation of the action plan for the period. A new operation "Long-term care for elderly and disabled people" with a total budget of 24 million is coming up, as well as an operation "Patronage care for elderly and disabled people" to develop a new pilot social-health service in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u46	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's a line for you, Mrs. Lecheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u47	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, it is true that you have only been a minister for a few months and have not had the opportunity in the situation to react quickly so as to respond in this period to the tens of thousands of citizens who have been left without the support and protection of the state, and this is about those citizens who need the most support and protection of the state in relation to their daily lives and who are in a calm and caring environment. It is true that many clouds have shrouded over the government in recent days, and that you are not prepared to make this smooth transition to a sustainable policy that you say and to implement your priorities. It was more regular, honest and honest to answer to the Bulgarian citizens that you were not prepared and that you were not ready for this smooth transition, instead of passing the blame on our opposition colleagues to the responsibility that you should bear as a ruling coalition. To say that you are in the way of the laws of the House of Personal Aid and the Law of Social Services, whose action your ruling coalition has asked to be postponed, to show that your team in the Ministry is not ready to take on this responsibility, well, I would say a misguided act of transfer of responsibility. I wanted to know what the deadline you're giving for this smooth transition is. By our calculations, it will take a minimum of one or two months for people to safely meet their needs and receive adequate protection from personal assistants and so on. This is a tough, clumsy procedure to which you have condemned dozens of citizens in the worst, winter months to meet the criteria. [[the President signals that time has run out]] ; all those necessary administrative measures in which both the mayors of municipalities and those who perform this service are currently in place, and all those who meet the criteria of people with varying degrees of disability. So, dear Minister, what is the deadline to solve this extremely important and difficult problem?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u48	Thank you, dear Mrs. Lecheva. Madam Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u49	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Lecheva, I will answer directly to the question for the deadline because I think this is the most important thing that people care about, namely: the opportunities for this national programme are for them to start on 1 March. But I can't help but react to the other things you said, because the presumption that the Personal Aid Act does not create problems is wrong, and we will sooner or later face problems with this law again. That is why I said today that what we will do is to assign in March, when six months have passed since the entry into force and the operation of the Law, i.e. from the actions of September, to see what the impact assessment is. You have used the words you have condemned to a clumsy procedure. This clumsy procedure is derived from this law. By the same law, I would like to recall that people with 90% appearance and degree of disability must be deprived of the supplement they have in order to be able to receive this help, while other persons who are about to enter will rather not be deprived of anything. Also, you know, people should pass on their addition to the Agency for Social Assistance to the Municipalities, and municipalities should carry out a very complex procedure for concluding employment relations between family members. For their part, then, as there may be a change in the individual assessment, they will have to be dismissed from work and possibly registered at the labour offices. So this whole clumsy procedure stems from this law, and that is why everyone should assume their responsibility. I am ready to solve the problems created by the Law, but not to be responsible for its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u50	Thank you, dear Minister. The second question is from the MPs Violeta Jeleva and Nadia Klisurska about the services in the home environment. You're welcome to develop the matter, Mrs. Jeleva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u51	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! In 2019 the Agency for Social Assistance of Municipalities provided the services "Society Assistant," "Personal Assistant" and "Home Assistant" through funds and funding from the state. This was regulated by the Decree of the Council of Ministers. As we have all learned from the broad response that has been received on this subject, there are not 13,000 needy people this year left without social support through these social services. Since 1 September 2019 the Personal Aid Act entered into force and you yourself said in your statement that it started with 5,000 users, and now it is now 20 thousand, which means it is working. However, unfortunately, a large part could not fall within the scope of the new mechanism and remained without social support. Since there is a lot of talk on the subject, as I said, and you have given several statements, I would like to remind you, because you were not a social minister then and you did not participate in all the working groups for hours in which the mothers of children with disabilities and all the experts participated and put great work into it. I would like to remind you that at first the Law was not of such reduced scope. And you say that he was under pressure to, however, there was pressure from the Ministry of Finance, because it was clear that for this year there would not be enough financial resources. Therefore, the scope of the new mechanism is reduced. In § 7 of this Law, there is a point where it is said that an analysis must be carried out, and if necessary, it must be improved. As I said, it was the first step to be able to start the mechanism for personal support.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u52	The question, Mrs. Jeleva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u53	I also come to the point, but I would still like to say that a minister from an official tribune cannot tell untruths. That's why I just said that to explain and remind you. And yet I will forgive you, because you weren't a minister at the time. But you can't tell people that you knew about the problem at the end of the year and didn't take action. This is the responsibility of the Minister.. you say that you know about the problem and you start a national programme which will enter into force in March. Until then, what will these disabled people do who cannot look at themselves at home? My question is precisely and clearly answered to all these people: when and how long this procedure will be and will there be enough funding by the end of the year for the services in the home environment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u54	Thank you, dear Mrs. Jeleva. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u55	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Jeleva, the creation of opportunities for support and social inclusion of vulnerable Bulgarian citizens is among our main accents. I've already had a chance in the previous answer to list everything that's been taken so far. What I did not have time for in the previous answer to stress once again is the fact that, on 1 March, the National Programme "Providing care in the home environment" under the National Employment Action Plan will be in force and employment will be provided for it by the end of the year of an average of 2,400 unemployed persons on a full-time or 4800 in four-hour employment. We assume that this will be a sufficient resource to cover all needs, as we are talking about 16 million in this case. $575,000. 600 BGN, or 22.7% of the determined in 2020 73 million for active labour market policy. I mean, with that money, we're gonna do this. It cannot happen any faster, given that this national programme must be adopted, the national plan itself must be adopted. There are legal procedures that limit the possibility of this happening immediately, but from the moment we identify this problem has started working on it. The Personal Aid Act was loudly advertised by the fact that comprehensively solves the problems of all people with disabilities, as you can see, this is definitely not happening. Solving the problems of people with disabilities is directly related to the entry into force and the realization of the Social Services Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u56	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's a line for you, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u57	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dear Mrs. Sacheva, Dear Minister! I am very puzzled by your answers so far with regard to the responsibility that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy bears, because behind the responsibility of the Ministry is not a person, but an institution. The law on personal assistance is clear to all, and to us as MPs in this House that it does not in any way cover the target group covered by the National Programme for Services in Home Environment. All of us Bulgarian citizens are also aware that the target group of the National Programme for Services in Home Environment includes people over the age of 65 who do not have a TELK solution and who are unable to self-service. Dear Mrs. Sacheva, during a period of three years, our parliamentary group has asked the question of domestic services each year precisely with the concern that there is no sustainability under this national programme. Last year there was a smooth transition under the National Programme, the decrees of the Council of Ministers for 2018 and 2019 set out exactly the continuity of the possibility of this national programme to exist, because we are all aware that before it started, the funding under it was provided under the Operational Programme. But to my great regret, one very important thing I want to say is that what you are saying in all your answers to this national programme is that priority in the policy of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy in the field of long-term care is ensuring that [[the President signals that time has run out]] accessible, quality and sustainable social services in a home environment. Where's the resistance when there's such a break? Madam President, I would like to say two more things that are extremely important. The Personal Aid Act has nothing to do with it, and I'm saying it here, from this tribune, with the problem that has arisen right now! I am absolutely sure that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy knew that there will be people who will be left without personal assistants at the end of the year, because in their answers the Ministry, both last year and last year, says that there are over 12 thousand people in the country who are on the waiting list, dear Mrs. Sacheva!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u58	What is your question, Mrs. Klisurska?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u59	So the vision of the Ministry is to provide first care for socially vulnerable groups and to create this predictability and sustainability that you claim to know about! [[Comments from GERB: "Complete! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u60	The question, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u61	Dear Mrs. Sacheva, I ask you to answer the question from this tribune: what is the responsibility of the BSP, because you said yesterday at a briefing, publicly that BSP is responsible for not receiving such a service at the moment; and on the new national programme, when there were so many waiting and after all, what other measures and actions do you provide for the services in the home environment to be accessible to everyone? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u62	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska. Here you are, Madam Minister, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u63	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House. Dear Mrs. Klisurska, first of all, I would like to say that the sustainability you are pleading for and which you are looking for is contained in the Social Services Act. There, in fact, this law guarantees sustainability. As far as other measures are concerned, which are also envisaged, I mentioned about the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development." Firstly, within Priority Axis 2, a reduction in poverty and the promotion of social inclusion of the Operational Programme, targeted actions will be carried out to promote social inclusion and integration into society of disadvantaged groups. The aim of the operation is to build a model for the patronage of the elderly and the disabled, which will develop a pilot new social and health service in the country. I take this opportunity to draw attention to the fact that the Personal Aid Act excludes people who are disabled from being able to use a personal assistant, so that the main target group of this particular patronage operation will be elderly people over 65 years of age with limitations or inability to service. As regards the liability associated with the Personal Aid Act, you yourself said that when this law was adopted, you knew about the negative opinion of the Ministry of Finance, about the fact that there was not enough money to secure all these services and activities offered under this law but was nevertheless accepted. I do not accept when you have been warned that there have been insufficient funds and resources, however, to be accepted, and then we are held responsible that there is no way that this will happen. In this case, I think it's really time to focus on what's supposed to happen to these people. This can be ensured.. once again I stress the sustainability through the Social Services Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u64	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sacheva. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u65	Madam President, my procedure is directly addressed to you because we are currently witnessing something that I would call cynicism. And I would therefore ask you, while Mrs. Sacheva is here, to remove from the minutes of the National Assembly and publicly inform the MPs, the spectators and her herself, how many and which parliamentary groups voted on the Personal Aid Act. Because the claim that BSP, if you see yes, we are importers, but we do not vote from this half of the Chamber. And I think you will confirm it, Madam President, that there are more votes for the Personal Aid Act than half on the right. Then how does Mrs. Sacheva hold a responsible BSP or is she just lying? In my opinion, Mrs. Sacheva, you're lying.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u66	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. You know there's no way I'm gonna be able to run that background check as fast as I can. Thank you, Mrs. Sacheva, for participating in today's parliamentary control. We are going with questions to Minister Krasimir Valchev. The first question is from the National Representative Ivo Hristov on the policy of the Ministry of Education and Science for dealing with the functional illiteracy of the Bulgarian students. Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u67	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! Firstly, I am making it clear that this question was before New Year's Eve on the occasion of an announcement which was published by your ministry personally in relation to the results of the so-called PISA literacy test for secondary school students, which is done in more than 100 countries in the world. Mr. Minister, the results of the Bulgarian students in the PISA International Study of Natural Sciences and Technology were presented days ago. According to the results of 2015 about 40% of Bulgarian students are functionally illiterate in natural sciences, mathematics and reading. Worse is that this is already a stable trend, which was confirmed in 2018. Bulgarians seem to be increasingly illiterate from their peers in Europe, increasing the percentage of the weakest students and reducing the share of successful students. I hope your office has carefully analysed these results. There were comments in the media that you were considering new measures in the educational system. I am afraid that the changes that have been made so far have not been positive, which has already been statistically certified precisely by the PISA test. Dear Minister, what is the policy with which the Ministry of Education and Science will respond adequately and nationally responsible to the dramatic state in which Bulgarian education is located in this part? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u68	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Mr. Minister, please come in and answer the question within five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u69	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Hristov! The PISA International Student Assessment Program is conducted every three years, examining the skills in reading, mathematics, the sciences of the 15-year-olds, without being linked to the underlying educational content in the curriculums in the educational system of participating countries. A common international evaluation framework shall apply and the grouping of achievements shall take place after the evaluation of all students involved.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In PISA 2018, 15-year-old students from Bulgaria took part in 6 thousand 900 students from 197 schools. The main surveyed area is reading literacy. The results briefly: average number of points 420 for Bulgaria in reading, in mathematics Yes, we have a reduction compared to previous studies, but this reduction is within the statistical error. What we can do as an inference is to conclude in the Report that Bulgaria generally retains the results of the previous years if we settle them statistically. We have a change in the sample that can explain the reduction. For example, the percentage of students from professional high schools increased from 41 to 49%, the difference in the average number of points is 80, i.e. purely mathematical we can explain only by changing the sample these negative differences in results compared to the previous study. In the same way we cannot explain why in Sofia we have a large decrease in the average number of points, and in cities between one hundred thousand and one million people who are Plovdiv, Varna, Burgas, Stara Zagora and Ruse, we have an increase in results. We're only explaining this to each other by changing the sample. We do not find such great differences between cities in external evaluation. The problem is not that the results are slightly lower. The problem is that the results remain at a low level, that is, we cannot take into account a tendency to increase the results. But there is no way to account for it, as these are students cooked in the same way, in the same curriculum. I'm not saying these programs are bad. Here, if we have to summarize the factors, the reasons that affect these educational results are many. They are external, internal and related to the specifics of the study itself. For example, Bulgaria is in one of the first places, including Europe, in the PIRLS survey the first third in educational results within the European Union. PISA's own report shows that we are the country with the biggest difference between PIRLS and PISA. In PIRLS is measured to a greater extent base literacy, much greater knowledge, and the second is measured according to national curricula. The fact is that what measures PISA is significantly different from our curriculum than that for which our education system is tuned, but is much closer to the settings of other education systems and hence these differences are obtained. This does not mean that what measures PISA is not correct. On the contrary, it is right. And that is what we are trying to re-calibrate the system of providing knowledge, learning knowledge, towards their faster transformation into skills, to a greater extent motivation to encourage students to learn, to a greater extent to focus on the competence approach. The challenges ahead are after the adoption of the Preschool and School Education Act to effectively introduce the competent approach, but for this a little later. Of course, there are external factors of the environment that affect. Overall, there is a decrease in the global average results of all countries surveyed in terms of reading literacy and this is because of the generational characteristics of children. Today's children read less, communicate mainly with short texts, with emoticons, more difficult to motivate them to read and hence suffer communication competences. This is not only for Bulgaria. Rather, however, this is the reason why education systems are more focused on motivation for learning than on learning knowledge. This transition is made in all educational systems. It is a corresponding transition of 20th-century systems to XXI systems. I'm not saying that in the 20th century our system was bad, just then the children were different, the factors of the environment are different, today much more are the sources of information, much more are the authorities through which children receive information than they were in the 20th century. The internal factors that I said our system is geared towards providing knowledge is less ambitious. It is highly ambitious in providing knowledge, but less ambitious in transforming it into skills at an earlier stage. What the exams measure is also set to measure primarily of knowledge learned. All this change, which we sum up in both words, is going through this: change in the curriculum, change in teaching methods and change in what we experience. Unfortunately, the new curricula, and some of them in particular, are also too ambitious... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] If I may, let me finish. ...do not release enough perimeters for teachers to stop, to solidify, to get students to problemate, to discuss, to analyze, that is, to quickly transform knowledge into skills, and that is why we announced measures. Otherwise, what's the policy? Politics are all policies in the sector. All policies in the sector need to be made more continuously and more effectively, those which we have started in recent years and which affect almost all elements and segments of the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u70	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Hristov, for two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u71	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, thank you for your answer. There is a paradox and it is expressed in the following: the more sources of information there are, the more illiterate Bulgarians become and in particular their children. The generation of the current children since 2020 is far more illiterate than the generation of the year 2000 and the generation of the year 2000 is more illiterate than 1989, under the conditions of bad socialism. The Bulgarians who were at one of the first places in Europe by the level of secondary education... [[Relations from the National Representative Milena Damyanova.]] If you have anything to say, come here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u72	I have no right.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u73	You have no right, because you have nothing to say. For this reason we are in a dramatic state of Bulgarian education. You know, Minister, we've talked to you many times. It is true that these same tests and PISA, and others, have problems with the methodology, have problems with the sample, have problems with the focus. But whatever the problems of the? You know very well that China, to say it figuratively, Chinese countries Hong Kong, Singapore and so on, mark the threesome or the foursome of these tests. And with us, whatever the methodologies and methodology of the tests, we mark a sustainable.. Correct me if I'm wrong. We replaced Cyprus, which was last in 2015, we have moved it from the last place at the moment. So things aren't bad with us, they're dramatic! Our kids don't read. You can't have skilled competences without knowing anything before. They don't know anything! And the drama lies in this... [[Reply from the National Representative Lachezar Ivanov.]] Let me know better. I have 30 years of teaching practice. The drama is that someone at the beginning of the transition said that education should be a pleasure. If that were true, the monkeys would be professors. Education is an effort and violence, honourable Members. Violence on the natural, I'd say, the nature of man to be a lazy being. Education requires systematic work and effort in order for those who do not read to start reading because reading is the basis of imagination, and it is the basis for innovation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u74	The questions, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u75	Which is why, Minister, do you have any idea, first I know that this is not in your competence, but still.... about proposals from your office for changing the PISA methodology, which, however, little or much, is to be adapted to the specifics of the research subject? And second, which should be made clear, what will your ministry do to unload programmes in primary and secondary education, so that they can quote you: the teachers will turn a little bit and start asking their own pets less, but still more meaningful topics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u76	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Mr. Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u77	Thank you. Mr. Hristov, they are not dramatic, I repeat, rather we have the preservation of the problem is that it is maintaining a relatively low level. I say again that by other methodologies, like PIRLS, we have relatively good results, so we should not put a negative assessment on the whole system. The fact is that we have a change, if you want, in the structure of the students, because if you look at how demographics change, we have an increase in the share of students from families in which the spoken language is not Bulgarian, from families in which there is no attitude towards education, there are no children's books, which is a measure of the attitude towards education. Such a marker exists in PISA research itself. So what we can say is that the system is doing the same thing with a more difficult task. If you want, the task of the system is growing over time, because the list of competences, of knowledge, skills that children need to acquire. Foreign language training was increased. The training in mathematics and natural sciences was reduced as a percentage. That's not gonna affect anything. We bet new horizontal competences. We are no longer talking about digital user skills, we are talking about digital creativity. We bet more horizontal skills and this mix is constantly increasing. The task of the educational system is increasing. Otherwise, I agree that education should be mandatory, and it is mandatory because there must be a certain element of coercion, but when we talk about provoking children's interest in learning, it cannot happen without making them interested. Much more difficult to provoke the interest, the attention of today's generation of students. This is realized by all educational systems and they change, do not continue in the same way. They change to provoke interest in learning, to a greater extent to teach them to learn. The most important skill of today's generation of children who will change jobs is to learn to learn, and that is throughout life. When we talk about study programs, it's one thing in history and geography. There the student may miss some fact about a continent or a historical period, but if his teacher creates, provokes interest in the world, interest in history, geography, he will learn much more throughout his life. There the change can only go through teaching methods, but there is an excess factology in the curriculum, although, you know, when we talk about history, always how difficult the debate in the curriculum is. In mathematics, there is a skill in all knowledge, all knowledge builds on the next knowledge. Very few are purely theoretical knowledge and there just need to ease the curriculum. You need to ease yourself by moving topics, easing the depth of the topics. Third by type is the conversation in subjects such as literature. You know that literature is related to the formation of national self-consciousness, national ethnicity, to the upbringing of national self-consciousness. There we need to find a way to combine all those goals that are in front of the teachers, into one. The exams need to be changed and what we say is valuable. They need to be tuned for measuring skills. PISA is actually not so bad what measured. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Rather, we should not change PISA, we should partially change our educational system to what measures PISA. I hope I was able to answer the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u78	Thank you, dear Minister. For consideration, Mr. Christov, you're entitled to two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u79	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, as Marx said, we cannot hold the people responsible for the circumstances whose product they are. Don't misunderstand me, neither you nor your institution I hold responsible for processes that started with a powerful inertial force, with a huge destructive element 30 years ago. Clearly, the best thing we can do at this stage, and it's realistic, is just stop the fall if we can, or at least slow it down. We know, on the other hand, that education and the methodologies of education do not stand together. It's also true. But it is also true that in an era where it is claimed to be more and more informed, our children are becoming increasingly illiterate and this is also a constant refrain. Yesterday, by the way, rather the other day, I watched President Putin's official address to the Federal Assembly. Put first as a matter of national security the literacy of the nation along with demography, not any economic, financial or other problems that are undoubtedly important. If we don't have people, and secondly, if these people aren't literate, we don't have anything. The nation is not territory. The country is not a pile of hardware. Bulgaria is not a pile of infrastructure. These are the people. And when this national capital becomes more and more illiterate and more depressing, in 20 years we'll ask ourselves again the question, remember the word "how did we get it here?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u80	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. We move on to the second issue by the National Representative Dimitar Georgiev on verification at the Center for Human Resources Development, a secondary officer with a budget to the Minister of Education and Science. Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u81	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, my question is brief: based on the verification carried out and appointed by the Chief Inspectorate of the Council of Ministers at the Center for Human Resources Development, what are your conclusions? What are the measures you will take in relation to the violations found? I hope there won't be any more violations. The Agency for State Financial Inspection has identified a number of violations in your ministry.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u82	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Mr. Minister, please come in three minutes and answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u83	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Georgiev, the Center for Human Resources Development is at the Ministry of Education and Science, a secondary authorising officer, but is not part of the organizational structure of the Ministry as a legal entity, a separate legal entity. I have over 400 such minor officers to the Minister of Education and Science at the moment. Last 2019 the Centre was subject to inspections not only by the Chief Inspectorate of the Council of Ministers, but also by the Internal Audit Unit, the Inspectorate of the Ministry of Education and Science, the Executive Agency of the European Union and the European Commission. During these checks, key procedures related to the administration under the programme.................................................................................................................... At the end of 2018, after receiving alerts, I entrusted immediate checks to the Inspectorate and the Internal Audit Unit. Non-compliance with the procedure for the administration of irregularities and fraud; presentation of a declaration by an evaluator containing false facts; doubts and rebuttals of indicators of conflict of interest between an external valuer and an organisation partner; the allocation of the submitted project proposals to external valuers; the activities carried out in relation to those in approved project proposals or implemented activities of poor quality; violations of the internal rules by employees of the Centre for Human Resources Development. After the verification and audit, I referred to the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Commission for Countering Corruption and Defeat of Illegally Acquired Property and the Directorate for Protection of the Financial Interests of the European Union, known for its short name AFCOS, to the Ministry of Interior. All recommendations from the Inspectorate's report of the Ministry of Education have been implemented in a timely manner. As a result of the measures taken, the Prosecutor's Office, the Anti-Corruption Commission and the AFCOS have been referred to three more times by the Executive Director of the Centre for Human Resources Development. Payments have been suspended for carrying out activities under 22 projects. All internal rules of the Centre relating to programme administration have been updated. The selection and contracting procedure of the Centre has been updated and the allocation of project proposals for evaluation between external valuers has already been carried out following the random selection principle in the evaluation system. The responsibility of the employees who violated the Center's internal rules has been sought. Financial corrections have been imposed on projects for which a discrepancy has been found between the activities carried out with those carried out in approved project proposals or with poor quality of the activities carried out. The procedure for administration of irregularities and fraud at the Center for Human Resources Development has been updated. What I can say is that I have taken all the action to protect taxpayers' interest in the case of EU budget funds. As soon as I've received information, I've ordered inspections. In the meantime, I've replaced two CEOs of the Center for Human Resources Development. An audit was also carried out during this period by the Executive Agency of the European Union. Other discrepancies with regard to declarations of conflict of interest, the procedure for administration of irregularities, doubts about the existence of indicators of conflict of interest, rules and procedures for checks of beneficiaries were also identified during the audit. In view of the findings of the Executive Agency, I have ordered that all actions be taken to correct the above non-compliances, which have been implemented in due time. I've proposed a new set of rules for the Centre's design and operation. Two further checks were carried out in 2019 by the Ministry Inspectorate and the Internal Audit Unit. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I didn't have time to tell you about the inspection of the Chief Inspectorate. I suppose you'll allow me in the second part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u84	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Georgiev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u85	Madam President, honourable Members! Minister, do you accept any personal responsibility because of these violations that have been detected? We will hold all persons responsible who have committed violations. We know that the Prosecutor's Office has also been referred to some of the violations, and we will expect results and extreme measures to end this practice.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u86	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u87	Thank you, Madam President. In particular, discrepancies concerning the administrative work of the Centre have been detected regarding the verification of the Chief Inspectorate, but there have been no violations of the Centre's main activities related to the administration of the programme......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The recommendations given have been implemented in due course. That was my requirement, too. The internal procedure for participation of Centre staff in the implementation of accompanying projects and activities has been corrected. She's launched the disciplinary procedure by an employee. Decisions have been appealed regarding the suspicion of conflict of interest. Measures have been taken for better management of human resources. This is to be correct to your question. What needs to be done and what anyone would do in my place is, after receiving a signal, to immediately appoint checks, such are my instruments, yet I stress that this is a separate legal entity from the Ministry, and to hold all recommendations to be implemented immediately by the persons concerned. We are not an institution with investigative functions. Therefore, some of the findings have been sent to the relevant institutions that have such functions. I'm responsible for the Centre's executives. This is the line of responsibility that is regulated in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u88	Thank you, dear Minister. We should thank Minister Valchev for participating in today's parliamentary control. We are going to Minister Rosen Zhelyazkov. Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. The question is from the National Representative Rumen Gechev on the state participation in the Bulgarian Navy. Mr. Gechev, you're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u89	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear colleague Zhelyazkov, in 2008 a privatization deal of the state company was carried out. The buyer KG Maritaim Shipping AD acquired 70% of the company's shares for 440 million. BGN, with 30% of the shares remaining state ownership, i.e. 132 million. lv. In this regard, given that you, Mr. Minister, are the principal of these 30%, please answer the question how is state interest protected in the post-privatization period, including the first of the four sub-questions: what dividends has the Bulgarian State received against its shares in total and in years since 2009? Second sub-question: in what form is the state involved in the management of the company so as to protect the public interest? Did she have and does the country have a representative in the management bodies of the Bulgarian Navy? Third sub-question: Are there any changes in the company's capital to date, and what is the actual percentage of the shares remaining in state ownership? Finally, what are your estimates and intentions with a view to the effective management of the state share in the Bulgarian Navy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u90	Thank you, dear Mr. Gechev. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u91	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gechev, I will follow the timeline of the questions as you have set them. The first question. The privatisation of the company was carried out on the basis of a privatisation strategy adopted by the Council of Ministers of 2004. The strategy envisions the privatisation of 70% of the capital, as you mentioned, was signed in August 2008. The Bulgarian Maritime Fleet is a limited liability company with a fixed capital of 109 million. $20,000. 860 BGN, which are distributed in the corresponding number of shares with a denomination of 10 BGN. Of which 70% or 7 million. 631 thousand. 460 shares are owned by "Advans Property" Ltd. and the state participation is 3 million. 270 thousand. 626 shares, respectively the ownership of the Bulgarian state is 30%. In accordance with art. 221, t. 7 of the Commercial Law decisions on the distribution of profits formed by the trading company shall be made after a decision of the General Assembly of Shareholders. In this regard, until now, when all the general meetings were held, when this was on the agenda, the State always offered a profit allocation, where it was accounted for, for dividends. According to the number of shares held by the State, 30%, these proposals have not been accepted by the General Assembly since the decisions are adopted by majority. The ability of the State to prevail in decisions of the General Assembly and, as a result, to distribute a dividend is not allowed under the terms of the privatisation transaction and, in particular, with the sale of 70% of the company's shares carried out in 2008, according to the 2004 Strategy. On the other hand, a rule encountered, in view of the specifics of the company concerned, is not to distribute a dividend but to invest in investments. On the next question. The State participates in the management of the Bulgarian Maritime Fleet Company through the General Assembly with a representative who always participates in the general meetings and the competence of the General Assembly is listed in art. 221 of the Commercial Law. The State had a representative at the Management Board of the company from 2008 until 2016. Given that under the legislation in force and the Statute of the company does not require the State to designate its representative in the management bodies, at present the State does not have a representative at the Management Board of the Bulgarian Maritime Fleet. Regardless of the above, I am waiting for the General Assembly to convene to raise this question. On the next question. To date, the company's core capital is 109 million. $20,000. £860. and has not changed since the privatization deal, such as the Minister of Transport Information Technologies and Communications, as an authority exercising the ownership rights of the state as shareholder in the Bulgarian Maritime Fleet JSC, which is listed in the Commercial Register, holds the number of shares already mentioned - ordinary, nameable, voting, with a nominal value of 10 BGN. Everyone. The capitalization of the shares of the Bulgarian Maritime Fleet JSC with fixed capital, as mentioned, is 109 million. $20,000. 860 shares. According to the company's financial statements on 31 December 2018, own capital was 749 million. 123,000. BGN, such as the capitalization of the shares, calculated as own funds of the said 749 million. 123,000. BGN, divided by shares, is equal to BGN 68,71, which is 6,8 times the nominal value respectively. We believe that, according to the shareholder participation, which is lower than one third, which would allow for a blocking quota, and in view of the company's situation, it is currently being managed effectively.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u92	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line, Mr. Gechev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u93	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister Zhelyazkov, we have just heard your answers, which to me are not unexpected. I ask questions to which I know the answer. And the answers are tragic because in a leading Bulgarian state firm sold at one and according to you, and in my opinion insufficiently effective and bizarre way, the Bulgarian state has done nothing to protect its interest in 2008 as well. On my first question, you confirmed, honourable viewers and Bulgarian citizens that not a single penny has entered the budget of the Bulgarian state in recent years....................in no year of the last ten years after the privatization of the Bulgarian Navy! One penny didn't make it into the budget! No dividends! First of all, they cannot have dividends, as out of 2851 people in the state firm are currently there 163 people - a huge tragedy! Scattered whole sector of Bulgaria! Secondly, in what form is the state involved in the management of the company? You say: until 2016. Since then you have not shown any interest and this amount of 133 million you have practically given to the private owner. Thirdly, if there are changes in the company's capital I ask you, you answer that there are no such changes and the share remains 30%. Well, Mr. Zhelyazkov, what should happen, come on, let's say 2016 so far? This gift of 30%, of 130 million. lv. Who gave you permission to give you away to the private owner? Because there are no dividends, and you're standing by 30%?! Well, sell them to him at a market price or someone else! So from your answers, we understand that there is not a single penny in the country, the owner paid 70% and 30% is free of charge. Isn't that right, mate?! How long? It's called "intentional idleness." And I have two questions for you. First of all, have you personally or your replacement or an authorized person gone to this firm to see what's going on with that 30% of $130 million? Have you ever been there? You didn't! Answer if you've been there! Did you call a representative of this firm for a conversation, or would that money of ours stay with them like this?! Are you familiar with the business plan of the Bulgarian Navy what will happen in the coming years? I ask you to answer these questions: does the Bulgarian state give you, do you think, these 30%, use them without a penny, or will you take any measures? Thank you. [[Relations from the National Representative Lachezar Ivanov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u94	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u95	There's not enough, 140 million! [[Relations from the National Representative Lachezar Ivanov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u96	Colleagues, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u97	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gechev, I do not know where you are drawing all these conclusions and conclusions, given that I told you that the state share and the share of the remaining shareholder has increased 6.8 times. The fact that the State has a minority share does not mean that its effective use and the opportunities it has under this 30% quota, and you know, the blocking quota is 33,33, but such was the strategy in 2004, so the Treaty was signed in 2008, does not mean that the State has given them, ordered them or made any other action which deprives it of this shareholder participation. It is simply that the State has a minority shareholding which does not allow it, within the meaning of the privatisation contract, to vote pro-actively but to vote passively during the General Assembly. On the subject. When the state decided after the changes in 1989 to conduct a privatization policy, with the order of state participation and state assets received for these 70% their then market price, you mentioned what it was. That is, the claim that there is free is not true! On the other hand, some facts. The operating tonnage as of 16 January 2020 is 37 commercial vessels with a total dedwaite of 1 million. 308,000. the tone. The average age of ships is less than nine years, i.e. the average age of ships is less than the average age of the privatized company, of which 39 bulk ships are in operation, three construction ships, one ferry ship fulfilling commitments of the Republic of Bulgaria under a tripartite agreement to provide direct rail connections in the Black Sea between the Republic of Bulgaria, Ukraine and Georgia. The company operates with six ports, five of which were built in 2017, 2018 and 2019 in Bulgaria. In 2019, the company acquired a total of six new vessels: a motor ship "Rozhen" and a motor ship "Plana" and a motor ship "Midjoor" and a motor ship "Buzludja" and a motor vehicle "Brigel" and another motor vehicle "Brigel" and the value of the vehicles acquired in 2019 alone is at a price of 170 million. lv. The question is: is dividend distributed? Disvenet is distributed if there is a profit. If this profit is reinvested, which increases the market value of the shares, it is seen that the company is in good condition, with targeted investments. With regard to market activity, I can mention you, but I don't have time. If you want me to make an additional comment about yours, which I see you want to make.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u98	Go on. Mr. Gechev doesn't mind if you continue. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u99	In terms of market situation. The International Fraxt Market for Bulk Ships 2019 is the third worst year since 2015 and 2016 in the last 15 years. With effect from 1 January 2020, new standards for maximum sulphur content in the exhaust gases from ships shall enter into force. The MARPOL Convention, Annex 6 requires a maximum sulphur content of 0,5%, requiring ships to be equipped with new extremely expensive sulphur separation facilities or to use fuels close to those of cars. Accordingly, the costs of these new fuels at present are more than twice as high, which significantly increases the cost of the service. An example ship operating at a speed of 12 knots and consuming 18 tonnes per day increases its daily operating costs by USD 6300 per day, which puts the ship owners in an appropriate disadvantage. The Bulgarian Navy is trying to renew the fleet with new modern, environmentally friendly and highly efficient ships to meet these challenges. The company maintains international certification according to the relevant standards, and for this year the company plans to acquire new ships to be provided. They're currently being made in China. In conclusion, the company works successfully and is established on the market by constantly updating the fleet by investing in new environmentally and highly efficient ships, with the horizon of investments up to 2022 inclusive. Jobs are provided for Bulgarian citizens, as well as on board the ships around 1300 people. It is very closely worked with the Higher Naval School of Nikola Yonkov Vaptsarov, the Technical University of Varna and the Sea High School in Varna, providing free internship for future Bulgarian sea specialists, which confirms his position as a leader in the Bulgarian maritime industry. Of this thing, the state owns 30%. State participation has never been reduced and capital has never been increased to bring about such a reduction. I assure you that if the strategy to sell this minority participation is supported or tabled by you, the capitalization of this minority participation will be much greater than the dividend horizon in the coming decades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u100	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Thanks to Rosen Zhelyazkov, Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, for participating in today's parliamentary control. The Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova will now respond. He will answer a question from the National Representative Krasen Krastev concerning the personnel security of the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" EAD in conditions of long-term exploitation. Here you go, Mr. Krastev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u101	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable Minister! At the moment, the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" from the stage of normal operation goes into a stage of long-term operation. The process of preparation, recruitment and qualification of staff for the placing in service of V and VI units started 35 years ago. During this period, staff for operation of the Central are also appointed. During the years of work of V and VI, new personnel have been constantly recruited to fill the liberated positions for various reasons. Retirement, passing of other jobs and others, such as the process of leaking of personnel from the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" was insignificant and there were no problems with their collateral. Since 2015, the retirement process of the main part of staff which has been admitted to work during the period of putting into service of V and VI energy blocks begins. In the next five years until 2025, more than 780 NPP specialists will retire, representing 22% of Central staff. These are, for the most part, workers directly employed in the operation and repair of V and VI energy blocks holding management positions with huge management, administrative and operational experience. In accordance with the documents of the International Atomic Energy Agency, these are key posts which the Central must provide every moment of the work process. Dear Minister, will the necessary staff be secured by the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" EAD under the conditions of long-term exploitation, regardless of the worldwide staff deficit in the nuclear industry? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u102	Thank you, dear Mr. Krastev. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u103	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Krastev, the question you are asking is very important. It is important not only for the sector..... not only for nuclear energy, but the issue of qualified personnel is a ubiquitous problem in every sector. When it comes to a nuclear power plant, this issue is particularly sharp. This is because only people who meet and possess special knowledge and skills can be appointed to the nuclear power plant as required by the Law on the Safe Use of Nuclear Energy. This makes our task even more difficult, even more responsible. Here we can happily say that in last 2019, and in 2017 we were able to extend the life of blocks V and VI of NPP "Kozloduy" by 10 years, as our national legislation allows. But there is an opportunity for an extension of another two times 10 years, which basically means a total of 30 years, that is, we are really in long-term exploitation mode and the long-term operation of the Central, and one of our main tasks is to think about what people will work at the Central, where will they come from, because statistics are not very encouraging in this direction? What the analyses show is that within each year they graduate approximately 10 " 15 students in the specialty of "Nuclear Energy." Fortunately, almost all who graduate work with us at the Atomic Power Plant, but this is far from our ambitions and our vision for the long-term development of nuclear energy. After the life of the two units of the NPP.V and VI of Kozloduy NPP, you know that one of the conditions in the licence is precisely to continue the licence. We need to show security with personnel and this has actually been done and the Agency extended the license as one of the main reasons is that the nuclear power plant has really very prepared personnel. I hope that we will continue to be the country that has some of the best experts in the field of nuclear energy in the future. Therefore, the participation of our experts in WANO's missions is also evidenced by the organisation that is carrying out checks on other nuclear power plants that are currently operating. We can proudly say that our nuclear power plant employs exceptional professionals, but what must we do to maintain this trend? I will allow myself to say very briefly what are the plans that Kozloduy and the Ministry of Energy have signed and what we are really doing. There are two guidelines in which we work on the one hand, these are our views and our actions that we have taken with regard to higher education. And the other part of our efforts are directed at the footage in secondary school. Since June 2019 on the company's website has been declared permanent acceptance of documents for work on 31 priority majors from higher education. Since 2017 the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" has been providing scholarships to students from the specialities "Nuclear energy" and "Nuclear equipment" who, after graduation, are committed to working at the Central. There are contracts with 16 scholarshiprs, to which the Central pays the tuition fee and scholarship fee of 1000 BGN. of a semester in achieving certain requirements for success. Again in 2019 a scholarship was announced for freshmen who enrolled certain specialties. So far, contracts have been concluded with three freshmen. For 16 years the company has developed an internship program, paid and unpaid internships. As of 2019, paid summer internships shall only be held for priority technical specialties. NPP "Kozloduy" actively works with the academic circles in the country, close links are maintained with the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and with the technical universities. In the field of secondary vocational education, a procedure for dual training in the specialties of...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Scholarships are envisaged for students from the professional high schools of nuclear energy in Kozloduy and the town of Belene. With the help of the Regional Management of Education in the town of Pleven and the town of Vratsa are organized meetings with high school students for the purpose of real career orientation. Representatives of the Ministry of Education and Science discuss training in nuclear energy and physics to participate in the expanded training of students from vocational schools. The NPP "Kozloduy" offers to provide an opportunity for teaching classes in the Central Center in order to increase the interest of the students. We're working this way. Madam President, thank you for giving me a little more time, but this is really an important topic. Thank you. If there are any questions, I'll be happy to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u104	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Krastev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u105	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! I'm pleased with your answer. I mean, under your sharp eye, the nuclear plant seems to have answered all the questions. What will happen from here on out, perhaps in Belene, if there is another power, will be under your control. Once again, I will say that I am pleased with the answer and I will make an announcement, if possible a minute ago here was also the Minister of Education....................................is it possible to talk about the protection of the speciality at the Technical University of Nuclear Energy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u106	Thank you, dear Mr. Krastev! This is perhaps a question for the Minister of Education. Here you are, Madam Minister, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u107	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Krastev, perhaps in my reply I neglected to mention this extremely important fact and the support we have for our colleagues from the Ministry of Education. We are working very closely on these specialities, as they are really key to the sector and especially nuclear energy. We are constantly in dialogue with our colleagues from the Ministry of Education and with the first results and decisions we make, you will be informed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u108	Thank you, dear Minister. We should thank Minister Petkova for participating in today's parliamentary control. And now the last question to Minister Krasen Kralev is the Minister of Youth and Sports for today's parliamentary control. The issue is from the MPs Aleksandar Simov and Nikolay Tsonkov on the position of the Ministry of Youth and Sports on the decision of the World Anti-opping Agency to withdraw the rights of Russian athletes to participate in world and Olympic championships. Here you are, Mr. Simov, to develop the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u109	Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to clarify that our question was brought forward in mid-December, when it was much more up-to-date, but I think the answer is also interesting now. Dear Minister, please let us know what is the official position of the Ministry of Youth and Sports on the decisions of WADA (World Anti-opping Agency) for withdrawing the rights of Russian athletes to participate in world and Olympic championships. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u110	Thank you, dear Mr. Simov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u111	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Simov, Mr. Tsonkov, on 9 December 2019 by unanimous decision of the Executive Committee of the World Anti-opping Agency WADA was imposed a four-year ban on Russia's participation in international competitions. Prior to the meeting of the WADA Executive Committee on 27 November 2019 in Paris, a 49th extraordinary meeting of the European Committee of the World Anti-opping Agency of the Council of Europe KAHAMA was held in which a representative of the Ministry of Youth and Sports took part. During the meeting a mandate of Europe was drawn up for the meeting of the Executive Committee of the World Anti-opping Agency, held on 9 December 2019. The mandate is based on a recommendation of the Commission for a review of compliance issued on 22 November 2019 and therefore the Russian anti-opping agency RUSADA to be declared inconsistent with the World Anti-opping Code. In order to participate in international competitions, each country must have a national anti-opping organisation that has signed the World Anti-opping Code, which has international standards. In 2017, WADA approved an international standard of compliance for the signatory countries. An independent committee has been set up to monitor and implement the standard. Where that committee finds a discrepancy between standards and the implementation of the WADA anti-opping programmes, it shall impose sanctions. Bulgaria's position was expressed by the representative of the Ministry of Youth and Sports at the meeting in Paris on 27 November 2019 and supported the recommendation, taking into account the possibility of legal certainty and protection of the right to participate in major sports competitions of the pure Russian athletes. Bulgaria and I, as a member of the WADA Management Board, support clean sport and respect for the rules of all parties to the International Convention against Doping in UNESCO and the Convention against Doping of the Council of Europe. The mandate of KAHAMA was supported by all 48 member states of the Council of Europe, with the exception of Russia, which announced that it could not support sanctions against itself. At the same time, Bulgaria considers that, in the same way as Russia has been investigated, other countries which have been suspected of non-compliance with the World Anti-opping Code should be considered. The sanctions, as a result of a WADA decision, foresee the absence of competitors from Russia to participate under the national flag of the Olympic Games, world championships, including the Tokyo Summer Olympic Games in 2020 and the Beijing Winter Olympic Games in 2022. Only certain athletes will be admitted to such competitions, which prove that they were not part of the state-sponsored Doping Program, that their data was not manipulated, that they had passed the necessary independent tests until the start of the respective competition, and each international federation decided which Russian athletes would allow participation in the games. The European Federations, which organise European championships, are not considered part of the concept of "Manager Event Organizer" as enshrined in the International Code of Concordances, that is, Russia will be able to participate in European championships, European and world cups in all sports. Russia has no right to accept high-ranking competitions, with commitments already made at the discretion of the relevant international federation being held on the territory of Russia if they cannot be distributed. Russia will be able to accept Euro 2020 football matches and participate in the tournament. The reason for this is that UEFA as the organizer of the championship is also not part of the concept of manager event organizer. As is known, at the end of December 2019, RUSADA submitted a claim against the WADA Executive Committee's decision to the Sports Court of Arbitration in Lausanne. The former president of WADA, Sir Craig Reedy, commented that the Agency is firmly convinced of its decision and will defend it before the Sports Arbitration Court. We are about to see the debates and the final decision of the court. At the beginning of January this year WADA filed a special action before the Court of Arbitration in Lausanne for the authorisation of the RUSADA case. This request has been submitted in accordance with the international standard of compliance with the Code and will be examined in the Department of Common Court of Arbitration of the Court of Justice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u112	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line, Mr. Simov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u113	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Mr. Minister, I agree that there is no country that does not support pure sport. The issue here is that the decision of the anti-opping agency outraged many people with its frank double standard and with the attempt to condemn an entire nation, spending all its athletes under a common denominator. This is the worrying part of the decision and because of that we asked you about the Bulgarian position, because Bulgaria in its history has repeatedly and twice been the victim of similar double standards when the requirements were three times heavier than the requirements for other countries. I understand that Russia is today the great culprit for everything that is happening in the world, and that it will be a culprit for everything, and that sport, unfortunately, cannot be impartial about politics, and that the policy there is to pursue Russia to the end. The question is whether in this case Bulgaria could not have had a slightly different position to try to remove this double standard and try to ensure justice for those Russian athletes who prove that they are clean and that there is certainly one. This was the great meaning of our question, and I would be delighted if you could comment on this further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u114	Thank you, dear Mr. Simov. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u115	Dear Mr. Simov, I think at the exhibition I just mentioned our position, which is based on the idea that you said. In principle, we insist that all countries be treated with the same standard and that when there are violations, they be sanctioned, no matter how large the country is and what its geographical and political situation is. This is a position which I have repeatedly expressed personally, this is the official position of Bulgaria. The decision to which we stuck at the time was for the emphatic participation, the admission to participation of Russian athletes who were clean and were not sanctioned for the use of doping. And that's what I think is going to happen, that's what the basic solution is. Another question is how complicated is the procedure in which Russian athletes will prove that they are independent. The only penalty is that they will not have the right to hear the national anthem when they win the race and those medals and assets that have been won will not be attributed to Russia. This process has been very difficult, very long, has lasted for more than four years and our country has always taken the position of the right of clean athletes to be allowed to compete, as well as for equality in the treatment of absolutely all countries. We will continue to stand up for this position. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-01-17.u116	Thank you, dear Minister. Colleagues, that was the last question. Thank you for participating in the parliamentary control of the Minister for Youth and Sports. Thank you, too. Next regular meeting on January 22nd, Wednesday, 9:00 p.m. I'm adjourned today's session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
