ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u1	Good afternoon, fellow Members. Please take your seats. Good afternoon to the colleagues who will participate remotely in the meeting! I hope they're okay. Please, registration mode. Boris Kirchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u2	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u3	You saved Gurnevsky?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u4	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u5	Slavko Atanasov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u6	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u7	Thanks, guys! Registered in Hall 121 plus 3 remote: 124 is the quorum. 63 is the number of MPs in the Chamber who can take decisions. There's a quorum, I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Dear colleagues, I present to your attention a draft programme for the work of the National Assembly for 16 December 2020: "1." Re-vote the contested provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping, adopted by the National Assembly on 28 October 2020, returned for a new discussion with Decree No 229 of 5 November 2020 to the President of the Republic under art. 101 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. 2. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Reserve of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 17 August 2020. Adopted in first vote on 24 September In accordance with 3. Annual Youth Report 2019 Importer "The Council of Ministers," 15 October 2020 4. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture. Importer "The Council of Ministers," 7 December 2020 5. Draft decision on the award of the Court of Auditors' audit for compliance of public procurement awarded to the Authority in the period 1 January 2016. " 31 December 2020 Exporters. " Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs, 25 November 2020 6. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Radio and Television. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 30 October 2020. Adopted in first vote on 26 November 2020. Point 1 for Thursday, 17 December 2020 7. A bill for ratification of the Loan Agreement between the European Union as a lender and the Republic of Bulgaria as a borrower. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 15 December 2020 Point two for Thursday. 8. First vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Census of Population and Housing Fund in the Republic of Bulgaria in 2021. Importers supplied by the National Representatives Alexander Nenkov and Alexander Ivanov, 9 December 2020. Point three for Thursday. 9. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code. Importer supposed to the Council of Ministers, 3 December 2020 Point four for Thursday. 10. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 23 July 2020. Adopted in first vote on 24 September 2020. Point five for Thursday. 11. Strategy for the Development of Higher Education in the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2021 - 2030 with the attached Project for a Decision. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 2 November 2020 Point six for Thursday. 12. First vote on the Bill to supplement the Code of Criminal Procedure. Importers.. Krasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs, 3 December 2020 Point 1 for Friday, 18 December 2020 13. Draft decision on the adoption of Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates as Director-General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and the hearing of candidates in the Committee on Culture and Media and the procedure for selection by the National Assembly. Importer "Culture and Media Committee" point two for Friday. 14. Parliamentary control including: 14.1. Debates on the inquiry by the MP Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on reform of the road toll policy; 14.2. Answers to questions and Please vote on the proposed agenda. Mr. Kirchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u8	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u9	Mr. Gurnevsky?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u10	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u11	Mr. Atanasov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u12	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u13	Thank you. The 125 MPs voted, plus three colleagues who voted remotely, became 128: for 117 in the room plus 3 remotely, 120 against none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. I'll introduce you to a few messages, colleagues, before we go to point one. Bills and draft decisions entered into force from 9 December to 15 December 2020: Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Population and Housing Census in the Republic of Bulgaria in 2021. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. A bill amending the Law on Measures against Money Laundering. Importer "Krasimir Tsipov" and group of MPs. The Committee on Internal Security and Public Order is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Draft amending and supplementing the Beekeeping Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the Committee on Agriculture and Food and to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. A bill amending and supplementing the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly on 13 March 2020, and for overcoming the consequences. Importer "Iskren Veselinov" and group of MPs. It is allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs and to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Cultural Heritage Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Culture and Media and to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, and for overcoming the consequences. Importer "Iskren Veselinov" and group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs as a leader and to the Committee on Budget and Finance. Proposal for a debate on questions No 054 05-44 of 23 October 2020 by the MPs Georgi Svilenski, Manol Genov and Dimitar Danchev to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a reform of road toll policy. Importer "Cornelia Nino" and group of MPs. Draft decision on the award of the Court of Auditors' audit for compliance in the conclusion and implementation of contracts under the Public Procurement Act by "Montajs" EAD for the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2020. Importer Roumen Gechev and a group of MPs. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance and to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. A bill for ratification of the Loan Agreement between the European Union as a lender and the Republic of Bulgaria as a borrower. Importer of the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance. Messages: Deputy Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria in implementation of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces informs the National Assembly that by its order he has authorised the passage through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria of the non-military nature of an aircraft with its crew from the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Azerbaijan. The authorisation is valid for the period from 18 to 22 December 2020 for a total of two flights to transport dangerous cargo from Serbia to Azerbaijan. [[Noise and lines.]] The order issued is within the competence of the Minister of Defence, concerning the assessment of the military parameters of the country's transition to defence. On issues concerning export control and compliance with international plantation regimes mandatory for the Republic of Bulgaria, the country's airspace clearance should be granted to the State concerned following a positive opinion from the competent authorities in these areas, the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Interior. [[Noise and lines.]] The notification was received on 11 December 2020 with entry No 003-09-103 and was made available to the Defence Committee. The National Assembly has received from the Court of Auditors a list of the completed financial audits of the annual financial statements for November 2020 and an analytical audit programme for the activities of the Court of Auditors 2020. The materials are provided to the Budget and Finance Committee and are available to the Members of the National Assembly's Library. [[Noise and lines.]] Guys, quiet, please, it's too loud! The National Statistical Institute has received information on indexes of turnover in the section of the R & D sector, excluding trade in cars and motorcycles in October 2020; indexes of industrial production in October 2020; indexes of construction production in October 2020; inflation and indexes of consumer prices in November 2020. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Moving on to point one: REPEAL OF THE PROGRAMAL PROVISIONS OF THE CODEX OF TRADE CORRECTION RETURNED BY THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION OF 28 OCTOBER 2020 RETURNED FOR NEW DISTRIBUTION WITH SAYN No 229 OF 5 NOVEMBER 2020 101 OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. The Report of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications will introduce us to Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, before I introduce you to the Report of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, I would like to make a procedure for admission in the hall of Mr. Veliko Zanchev But before that, I'd like to do a roll call procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Adlen Shukri Shevked is absent. Albena Vladimirova Naydenova- here Alexander Dimitrov Pawnov- here Alexander Ivanov Matsurev- here Alexander Koychev Ivanov- here Aleksandar Mairov Siddi-here Alexander Nikolaev Sabanov- here Alexander Petrov Alexandrov- here Alexander Rumenov Nenkov- here Aleksandar Tihomirov Simov- here Altimir Emilov Adamov- here Anastas Marinov Popdimitrov- absent Angel Iliev Isaev- here Andrian Ivanov Raykov-- here. Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anna Nikolaeva Slavova- absent Anton Konstantinov Kutev- absent Asya Atanasova Peeva- here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov- here Atanas Petrov Kostadinov- absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov is absent. Bogdan Emilov Botsev- absent Boris Vangelov Borisov- here Boris Petkov Kirchev (through the Internet) video conference platform)- here Boris Yankov Yachev- here Borislav Ivanov Borisov- here Boryana Lyubenova Georgieva- here Bürhan Ilyazov Abase - absent Valentin Alexiev Nikolov- absent Valentin Georgiev Lambev- here Valentin Ivanov Radev- here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov- absent Valentin Mirchov Milushev- here Valentina Alexandrova Naydenova- here Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov- here Valeri Simeonov Simeonov- here Vasil Milanov Antonov- here Vasil Tsvetkov- here Eyebrows Letif Rashidov here Velislava Ivanova Krasteva- absent Venka Kostadinova Stoyanova- here Vesela Nikolaeva Lecheva- absent Veselin Naydenov Mareshki - absent Veska Marinova Nencheva- here Violeta Ruseva Jeleva - absent Vladimir Slavchev Valev- here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev- here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov- here Galya Eneva Zaharieva- here Galya Stoyanova Zhelyazkova - here Georgi Georgiev Mihailov- here Georgi Georgiev Stoilov- here Georgi Dimitrov Andreev- here Georgi Evdokiev Markov- absent Georgi Zaprev Dinev- here Georgi Yordanov Yordanov- here Georgi Kolev Kolev- here Georgi Nikolov Vergiev- absent Georgi Strahilov Svilenski- here Georgi Tenev Stankov- here Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski- here Georgi Yanchev Gokov- here Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova- absent Daniel Petkov Yordanov- here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova- here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva- here Daniela Dimitrova Maleshkova- here Daniela Dobreva Dimitrova- here Danka Evstatieva Zidarova-Lurtova- here Dean Stoyanov Stanchev- here Delyan Slavchev Peevski- absent Desislaw Petrov Taskov- here Desislaw Slavov Chukolov- absent Desislava Angelova Todorova- here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova- here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva- here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov is absent. Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov is absent Dilyan Stanimirov Dimitrov- here Dimitar Boychev Petrov- here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev- here Dimitar Velichkov Georgiev - absent Dimitar Ivanov Avramov- absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev- here Dimitar Ivanov Danchev- absent Dimitar Krumov Alexandrov- here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov- here Dimitar Stoyanov Stoyanov- here Dobrin Nenov Danev- here Donka Dimova Simeonova- here Dora Ilieva Yankova- absent Dora Stoyanova Hristova- absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev- absent Evgeni Genchev Budinov- here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva- here Evgenia Danielova Angelova- here Evdokia Slavchova Asenova- here Elena Vladimirova Angelina - absent Elena Stefanova Pesheva - absent Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov- absent Emil Marinov Hristov- here Emil Seraphimov Tonchev- here Emilia Veselinova Staneva-Milkova- here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin is absent. Errol Osman Mehmet-- absent. Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev- absent Brought to you by Vassilev Iankov- here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov- here Ivan Dimov Ivanov- absent Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev- here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski- here Ivan Stefanov Valkov- here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov- absent Ivelina Veselinova Vasileva- here Ivo Angelov Hristov- absent Iglika Ivanova-Subeva- here Ilian Angelov Timchev- absent Imren Ismetova Mehmedova- absent Irena Metodieva Dimova- here Irena Todorova Anastasova- here Honest Vasilev Veselinov- here Ihsan Halil Hakke is absent Yordan Apostolov - here Yordan Iliev Yordanov- here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev- absent Kalin Dimitrov Vassilev- here Kalin Lubenov Velev- here Kalin Nikolov Popovski- here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva- here Kolyo Yordanov Milev- here Konstantin Veselinov Popov- here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - here Krasen Georgiev Krastev- here Krasimir Georgiev Tzipov- here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov- here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev- here Krasimir Mitkov Subev- here Krasimir Hristov Jankov- here Christian Ivanov Vigenin- here Cristina Maximova Sidorova- here Krum Kostadinov Zarkov- here Krastina Nikolova Takova- missing Lalo Georgiev Kirilov- here Lilyana Drumeva Radeva- here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov- here Lyubomir Boykov Bonev- here Manoil Minchev Manev- here Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Margarita Nikolaeva Nikolova- here Maria Yordanova Ilieva- here Maria Yordanova Tsvetkova- here Maria Shtereva Belova- here Martin Stefanov Obreshkov- here Menda Kirilova Stoyanova- here Milen Vassilev Mihov- here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova- here Milko Nedyalkov Nedyalkov- here Mitko Kostadinov Polychronov- here Mikhail Ivaylov Hristov- absent Mladen Nikolov Shishkov- here Mustafa Sally Karadaye- absent Nadia Spasova Klisurska-Zekova - absent Nelly Ruskova Petrova- here Nigyar Sahlim Jaffer is absent Nikola Iliev Dinkov- absent Nikolay Asenov Tishev- absent Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov- here Nikolay Georgiev Ivanov- here Nikolay Dimitrov Penev- here Nikolay Ivanov Tsonkov- here Nikolay Krastev Boshkov- here Nikolay Tsvetanov Sirakov- here Nikolina Panayotova Angelkova- here Nona Krasteva Yotova- here Pavel Alexeyev Hristov- here Pavel Dimitrov Shopov- absent Petar Georgiev Kanev- here Peter Hristov Petrov- here Plamen Dulchev Nunev- here Plamen Ivanov Manushev- here Plamen Tachev Petrov- here Plamen Trifonov Hristov- here Polina Alexandrova Shishkova- absent Polina Tsvetoslavova Tsankova-Hristova- here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev- absent Radoslava Plamen Chekanska- here Spas Georgiev Gurnevski (through the Internet) video conference platform) - here Slavcho Stoev Atanasov (through the Internet) video conference platform) - here. We have a quorum, colleagues. Let's move on. Please vote on the Deputy Minister's admission procedure. Mr. Kirchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u16	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u17	Mr. Gurnevsky?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u18	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u19	Mr. Atanasov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u20	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u21	Thank you. They voted 127 MPs in the hall plus 3 remotes in total 130: for 119 plus 3 remotes in total 122, against 1, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Invite the Deputy Minister to the Chamber. Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u22	Thank you, Madam President. On 6 November 2020, paragraphs 18 and 19 of the Law amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping, adopted by the National Assembly on 28 October 2020. The contested texts are proposed by the MPs Iglika Ivanova-Subeva, Stanislav Popov, Stanislav Ivanov, Pavel Hristov and Dimitar Petrov. The Commission shall, in principle, support the proposal under § 18. The Commission shall propose the following final version of § 18: .............................................................................. In the Penal Code (prom., SG No. ...) shall be created art. 234d: Art. 234 C.E. (1) Who, without authorisation, registration or licence, which is required by a statutory act or act of the European Union, carries out the public transport of passengers under an occupation shall be punished by imprisonment of one to three years. (2) When the act under para. 1 is carried out by two or more persons who have spoken in advance about its implementation, or by the use of a false or forged document or a false document, the penalty is imprisonment from two to five years and with a fine of two to ten thousand levs. (3) In the cases under para. 1 and 2 the motor vehicle used to carry out the act shall be withdrawn for the benefit of the State, regardless of whose ownership it is, and where it is missing or alienated, its value shall be assigned.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u23	You have the floor for speeches, colleagues. Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, your attention is currently corrected by the Law amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping, that is, by the Penal Code introduced through the Law regulating that problem that we talked about two or three weeks ago, namely the illegal shipments. Then in this Chamber, honourable Members, we have told you where the problems are. Now I would like to thank both the Transport Commission and the colleagues who have prepared the texts because you have listened to all our criticisms or recommendations as you wish, so understand it. Then we told you that there is no way in both the Penal Code and the Law on Road Transport to provide for punishment for the same thing. So the administrative punishment is the administrative penalty, the prosecution is the prosecution. Both measures cannot be applied for the same thing. The second thing we insisted on then was the separation of the shared journey. Our worries were that all those who carry out the so-called shared journey would fall under prosecution, precisely with the text where the notion of Now the dropout of the Union is already solving this problem, i.e. there must be both things......... and payment...................................................................................... And the people who make the shared journey can now be calm. Our worries were also in the amount of punishment for 10 years in prison then for shared travel or unauthorised transportation. And that's the norm I can see it's gone. That is, the conversation at the time in the first and second votes, the veto of the President, then a discussion here, shows that we, too, from the opposition were right when we criticised, and the presidential institution when they challenged this law. I hope that today the Bulgarian Parliament will make it possible for us to have legislation that will solve the problem. However, honourable Members, we will support these texts with the clear awareness that they will not solve the problem of unauthorised travel, unregulated transports, if we do not have a government that is not corrupt, which does not cover up crimes that does not impose penalties. If this thing isn't there, whatever texts we're adopting here, there's no one to apply them. Because the criticisms at the time were: why do you leave municipalities this is for the carriers, by the way, they criticised how many municipalities were left without transportation because of illegal transport and how many people were killed due to unauthorised transport, I took the liberty of asking the two ministers again because, when you don't know, you ask. I asked the Home Secretary how many people died as a result of an illegal transport. The answer was: The Ministry of Interior has no information about the deaths due to unauthorised transportation...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The second question: how many municipalities are left without transport as a result of unauthorised transport? The answer from the Minister of Transport is that there are no such municipalities as a result of unauthorised transport. There are as a result of rejected carriers due to lack of passengers, but as a result of unauthorised transport there are no municipalities left without transport. That's not true, of course. We are all aware that there are such municipalities, but there is no control, there is no one to find it, so that we can inform us that due to unregulated transport there are also dead, there are also municipalities without transport. Dear colleagues, I say again: we will support the text, but the great responsibility is the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Finance, to carry out their control functions, to carry out their control activities, to impose penalties so that this vicious model of transport activity can be terminated. Since we are also looking at the Road Transport Act, the question remains unsolved - I am only saying this for information, colleagues, with one type of motor vehicles - 8+1, which will come down again for the next weeks in the Transport Commission and your attention, where we need to decide what we are doing with this type of motor vehicles, which are neither taxi activity nor bus transport, but at the same time transport companies, tour operators are using them and we need to find them a legislative place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u25	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mrs. Sabeva, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u26	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! With regard to the need to regulate these important public relations relating to the protection of the life and health of citizens using public transport, on the one hand, and to categorically counteract and prevent unauthorised transport, on the other hand, we have refined and cleared the text of the provision of the legal norm of art. 234 of the penal code we propose to create. For this purpose, in order to be very clear to everyone and not to have any doubts and points of reference for the incorrect interpretation of the legal provision and its indisputable non-applicability for the so-called shared journey, we have specified that the public transport of passengers without the documents required for that purpose should be carried out in order for the penalties laid down in the provision of that legal rule to be applicable. The term "Securities" is an objective sign that does not depend on the subjective attitude of the legal entities. Transactions must be carried out systematically, continuously and primarily for profit purposes, with the intention of being a source of permanent income. The number of transactions and their size, the profit realised, are irrelevant, as it is irrelevant whether this is the main source of income. Next, we made a change to the Car Transport Act. Paragraph 1 of the Additional Provisions of the Law provides that the existing text "payment or economic benefit' is replaced by "payment and economic benefit'. In this way, I believe that there could be no doubt in anyone that the so-called shared journey is beyond the scope of the provision of the legal norm proposed by us to be established. Next, in order to make a clear and clear distinction between the act and to be able to clearly determine when constitutes an administrative infringement, when a crime, we have made changes to the Law on Road Transport and, in particular, art. 96, para. 2. It is intended to be taken in favour of the State the vehicle used to carry out the act on both the basic and the qualified composition. To this end, we have brought the Sanctuary provision into order. Art. 3 of art. 234 years of the Penal Code. I believe that we have thus proposed texts which, first of all, meet the objective that we are pursuing. Secondly, through the texts so proposed, the necessary regulation of these so important public relations relating to the protection of citizens' lives and health will be achieved and, last but not least, the unauthorised carriage of passengers will be countered in the appropriate manner. The texts are clear and unambiguous, which will lead to their precise and unbiased application by law enforcement authorities. The amount of penalties that we have provided for also qualify as optimal and fair and proportionate to that committed on the main composition from one to three years, and on the qualified composition from two to five years, respectively, a fine from 2 to 10 thousand. lv. I believe that through this sanction for such unlawful conduct, the objectives of both individual and general prevention will be achieved, without prejudice to unfair repression in relation to the offenders. I would like to thank the members of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, who supported and agreed on these texts. Because of everything I have put out, I believe that you will support the proposed texts with the adoption and entry into force, which will be resolved by the so serious problem of parigating the illegal carriage of passengers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u27	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sabeva. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the final version of § 18, which the Commission shall propose. Mr. Kirchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u28	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u29	Mr. Gurnevsky?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u30	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u31	Mr. Atanasov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u32	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u33	Thank you. The vote was 145 MPs in the House and 3 remotes became 148:........................... 143 plus 3 remotes.. 146........................................................................................................................................................................ 146 146 146 146 146 146 146 146 146 146 146 146 146 146 146 146 146 146 146 146 -. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u34	Mrs. Chairman! According to § 19 of the contested texts there is a proposal from the MPs Iglika Ivanova, Sabeva, Stanislav Popov, Stanislav Ivanov, Pavel Hristov and Dimitar Petrov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall propose the following final version of § 19: "Seriously, I'm In the Law on Road Transport (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 96, para. 2 after the words "without having that right', "if the offence does not constitute a crime' shall be added. 2. In § 1 of the Additional Provisions, i.e. 1 the words "payment or economic benefit" shall be replaced by "payment and economic benefit."
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u35	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Statements?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, what do we do with changing these texts? These texts solve the problem that was raised in this Chamber by colleagues for the so-called two levs. My fellow Members, I agree that when the Union existed, it may have been interpreted as whether, when two levs are given, the so-called two levs by colleagues will constitute a crime. That is why we are removing the Union or the Union and putting the Union in place. In this case, the text becomes: when there is a payment and an economic benefit. I think it is clear here that when we talk about how citizens share the journey, to share only the fuel, to say the least, this does not constitute a crime. Why are we doing this, colleagues? Because when the state gave 30 million in the first housing situation and 30 million was about to be given to the transport industry, that money would go maybe if I could use one expression of the wind, because it wouldn't have closed all the taps from where illegal funds could have flowed. Unregulated funds would have flown out precisely from those carriers carrying out unregulated transport. For this reason, I believe that the texts should be supported. As regards the statements on the unregulated transport which I heard just now from colleagues about those who died in the crash of unauthorised transport. Colleagues, I would like to tell you that such a concept of unauthorized transport is not available and therefore there is no way to measure how many people died in the crash of unregulated transport. I would therefore like to stress again that, with the texts we have proposed, the shared journey will remain a shared journey, without in any way being affected by the changes we have proposed to the Criminal Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u37	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see either. I shall put to the vote the final version of § 19, proposed by the Commission. Mr. Kirchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u38	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u39	Mr. Gurnevsky?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u40	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u41	Mr. Atanasov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u42	(OP, via Internet platform for video conference) : For.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u43	Vote 148 MPs from the House plus 3 online, become 151: for 151, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Moving on to point two: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE ARMED FORES OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 17 August 2020, adopted in the first vote on 24 September 2020. Mr. Popov, would you like to introduce us to the Second Reading Report?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u44	Madam President, honourable Members! "Deputy Report on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Reserve of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 002-01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 August 2020, adopted on the first vote on 24 September 2020. The Law on the Reserve of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria is amended and supplemented by the Law on the Reserve of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. Under § 4, there is a proposal from the MP Konstantin Popov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 4: ............................................ Art. 16 is repealed. According to § 5, there is a proposal from the MP Konstantin Popov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall not support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version of § 5: .................................................................................. In The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u45	Statements, coworkers? Here you go, Mr. Milev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u46	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The proposed Draft Law amending and supplementing the Bulgarian Armed Forces Reserve Act is yet another attempt by introducing new wordings to solve the problem of non-completion of personnel in the Bulgarian Army, instead of starting to offer much more rational solutions. For 12 years now, after a hasty decision to introduce a professional army, none of the government wants to accept the fact that there will be no voluntary service under the existing conditions of the armed forces if the service in them does not become attractive to young people and comparable to other jobs. Only on request and by introducing a temporary service in the voluntary reserve will increase the number of prepared Bulgarian citizens for the protection of the Fatherland. There is now an opportunity in the existing provisions, both in the Reserve Act and in the Defence and Armed Forces Act, to be accepted into service Bulgarian citizens, but no one wants to do so. Instead of fighting at the entrance of the formations for the proposed military service, young people run away from it because it is not prestigious, it is not attractive because it does not satisfy them and it is not a profession for life, and it also does not guarantee them a place in society and recognition from it. If it is possible for the importers from the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Defence to tell us what the attitudes in society are, because without any psychological research we make these amendments in advance. There is no telling how many people have stated that they will accept voluntary service in six months and more against 1000 BGN. salary. If this is confirmed, we will vote, but we also do not know at the moment whether the employers' organizations are ready to release someone to go serve and protect their place until they return in six months. Nobody does that kind of research, just verbal equilibrics. I remember an unprofessional study of a non-governmental organisation in the distant 2013, when the servicemen went on missions, the service was attractive and had a great desire. However, 70% of young people replied that they did not want to serve in the army, and only 8 " 10% " then wished to serve in the army. So things are out of the government's control and society is not taking them adequately. And with new wordings, the problem will not be solved without changes in the regulations. This was assured by many countries in the West, also the United States of America and Canada, which are taking decisive measures. We continue to fall behind and wait for the moment when there will be no one to board even the new armored machines that we will ever get. It is interesting that the rulers themselves point out in the reasoning that only 70 people have received military training for service since 2015, which is a confirmation of what I have said so far. Read the reasons for the amendments to art. 7, as written, which is a fact. And now they believe that with the introduction of a temporary voluntary service, young people will go to serve in the army and fill military formations for peace time. And in wartime, when do we fill them out? Isn't that an even bigger problem? In addition, the introduction of the Military District is proposed to be a secondary authorising officer. Since he has not had legal personality until now, he is given one with the rank of armed forces, which is unacceptable. Since over the years, millions of armies have been mobilized with military districts and local offices and, of course, the Ministry of Defence and the Defence Headquarters, respectively, the Council of Ministers, should be responsible, not transfer rights to the Central Military District. Of course, there are other issues that will be addressed in the debate. For this reason, we will not support the proposed amendments and we will vote for the time being, abstention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u47	Thank you, Mr. Milev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u48	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We understand BSP's position that it will not support this bill. It is normal, it is opposition. We understand that it is actually accepting this change and will therefore not vote against it and will abstain. That's normal, but we don't accept the motives that have been expressed. We do not accept that with statistics and positions from 2013. I don't remember who was in charge at the time, it describes today's condition because for nearly four years there have been serious changes in our armed forces. It was reported by the Ministry of Defence that for last year, the number of members of the personnel military service exceeds the number of members left of the armed forces, which clearly shows a trend contrary to the one existing in previous years, which tended to be expressed in regular reports on the state of defence with the expression "erosion of the forces. The information that is public today for the running contests during this 2020 confirms the final data from last year. It shows that the number of applicants for the personnel military service has repeatedly exceeded the number of positions announced. In some armed forces, this is a ratio of one to over ten people applying for military service. This is explained in the context of the severe economic crisis that Bulgaria is going through. We can say a little consolation, the crisis and the increase in unemployment, combined with the three-year increase in wages in the sector, which next year will be increased, which makes on a four-year basis 48% increase in wages, this leads to an increased interest in the military service. The amendments to this law introduce voluntary military service, a new way of serving the country, as an opportunity to undertake military personnel service or to complete the reserve. I am convinced that this legislative step, if followed by a good governance of our armed forces, a good leadership of the Ministry of Defence, which we have undoubtedly in the last four years, will give its results as early as next year. I appeal to a responsible patriotic attitude and vote on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u49	Thank you, dear Mr. Mihov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I don't see any other speeches. Let's move on to the vote. Please, fellow Members, take your seats in the hall, I see a lot of openings. I put to the vote: the name of the Law; the texts of the importer for § 1, 2 and 3; the version of § 4 and 5; and the text of the importer for § 6 and 7. Mr. Kirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u50	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u51	Mr. Gurnevsky?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u52	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u53	Mr. Atanasov? I don't see him. Vote 137 plus 2 remote " 139" MPs: for 97 plus 2 remote...... they become 99............................................................................................ The motion is accepted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u54	Madam President, at General Popov's request, I will proceed by canceling it, but I hope to be dignified, our newly cured colleague. Under paragraph 8, there is a proposal of the MP Konstantin Popov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24 the following 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 2 the word "psychologically" is replaced by "psychologically"; (b) point 7 is amended as follows: "7." at the date of conclusion of the contract of service in the voluntary reserve, they shall be left with no less than two years until the age limit for service in the voluntary reserve under para. 7................................................................................... (c) c. 8 the words "and the Bulgarian Army" shall be replaced by "the Bulgarian Army and the structures under art. 50, para. 2 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria. 2. In para. 3 the word "Psychological" is replaced by "Psychological" and "Psychological" is replaced by "Psychological" is replaced by "Psychological" is replaced by "Psychological" and "Psychological" is replaced by "Psychological" is replaced by "Psychological" is replaced by "Psychological" and "Psychological" is replaced by "Psychological" is replaced by 3. A new para is being created. 6: . (6) Where the contract of service in the voluntary reserve is concluded only for the period of preparation and participation in an operation or mission outside the territory of the country, candidates for reservations for the appointment of whom medical or other special education is required may also be persons appointed by employment or service in the Ministry of Defence, the structures of direct subordination of the Minister of Defence and the Bulgarian Army. 4. So far, the Al. 6 becomes para. 7 and in it: (a) c. 1 the words "sergeants (sergeants), officers candidates and junior officers" shall be deleted; (b) point 2 is amended as follows: "2." for sergeants (sergeants), officers candidates, junior officers and senior officers for 60 years; (c) c. 3 the words "sixty-three years' shall be replaced by "sixty-five years'. 5. So far, the Al. 7 becomes para. 8..................................................... Under § 9 there is a proposal of the MP Konstantin Popov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 30 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In the text before t. 1 words before the expiry of the period and the comma after them shall be deleted. 2. A new t. is created. 2: "2." with the expiry of the agreed period; 3. Previously on "T." 2 becomes t. 3 and in it the words........................................................................................... 24, para. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation 4. Previously on "T." 3, 4, 5, 5a, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 are respectively t. 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 14, in which the abbreviation "KT" is replaced by the Labour Code. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17. Under Paragraph 18, there is a proposal. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 18: .............................................................................. Chapter 3................................................................................. 56-59a is repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u55	Thank you. Statements? I won't. We are going to vote on the following texts: the version of the Commission for § 8; the version of the Commission for the text of § 9; the text of the importer for § 10, 11, 12, 13; the text of the importer for § 14 with the proposal for replacement made by the Commission; the text of the Commission for § 15, 16 and 17; and the proposal of the Commission for the creation of a new § 18 with a text on the Commission Report. They voted 119 MPs: 82, none, abstention 37. The texts put to the vote have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u56	Under § 18, there is a proposal of the National Representative Hristo Gazhev, which the Commission supports under point 18 of the Act. 1 point (a) and supports, in principle, the proposal under point (a) of paragraph 1, and supports the proposal under point (c) of paragraph 1 of this Article. 1 point (b) and point (c) of Article 2 (1) 2. Proposal of the National Representative Konstantin Popov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 18, which shall become § 19: "Seriously, I'm A new chapter 3 is being created with new art. Art. 56 "59a" and Art. 59b - 59l: ..Chapter 3............................................................................................... Preparation of Bulgarian citizens for the protection of the Fatherland Section I Training of students and students for the protection of the Fatherland Art. 56. (1) The citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria in the two stages of the acquisition of secondary education shall be trained to acquire knowledge and acquire skills related to the protection of the homeland, the actions for survival of military crises, as well as the missions and tasks of the armed forces. (2) The training under para. 1 shall be carried out at class time within not less than 10 hours of the specified class hours. (3) Outside the classes of para. 2 training to acquire knowledge and acquire skills related to the protection of the homeland, actions to survive military crises, as well as missions and tasks of the armed forces, may take place in optional and/or optional hours of study. (4) The training under para. 2 and 3 shall be carried out by military or civilian personnel from the armed forces and the structures of direct subordination of the Minister of Defence who have undergone training for students. Art. 57. (1) The Bulgarian citizens with the status of students training for the acquisition of an educational-qualification degree "Bachelor" and "Master" and those with higher education can apply to a higher military school for the acquisition of a qualification "Officer from the reserve" if they meet the following requirements: 1. to be adult citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria and to have no other citizenship; 2. fit for wartime service; 3. psychologically fit for wartime service; 4. not to be convicted of a deliberate crime of a general nature; 5. there shall be no criminal proceedings against them for a deliberate criminal offence of a general nature; 6. not to be 40 years old in the year of application. (2) Students in the higher military schools shall be trained to acquire additional qualification from the reserve if they meet the requirements of para. 1. (3) Fitness for Wartime Service under para. 1, t. 2 shall be determined by military medical authorities under conditions and by order laid down by an act of the Minister of Defence. (4) Psychological suitability under para. 1, t. 3 shall be determined by specialized units and bodies of psychological provision under conditions and by order laid down by an act of the Minister of Defence. (5) The circumstances under para. 1, t. 4 shall be established in a professional capacity. (6) Bulgarian citizens under para. 1 conclude training contracts and at the time of their training shall be provided: 1. accommodation, free food or her left-hand equivalent and uniform clothing under conditions and in order determined by the ordinance of the Council of Ministers under art. 58, para. 1; 2. compulsory death and disability insurance due to an accident in the performance of training obligations. (7) Graduates under para. 1 take a military oath, assign them the first officer's rank under the reserve under conditions and by order laid down by the rules of enforcement of the law, and are assigned to the reserve. (8) Students who are trained for the acquisition of educational and qualification degree "Bachelor" or "Master" in civil specialties who have acquired qualification "Officer of the reserve" shall be paid part of the semester fee for training in the relevant higher school under conditions and by order determined by the ordinance of the Council of Ministers under art. 58, para. 1. (9) For the time of the training under para. 1 Students shall be entitled to use weapons, ammunition, explosives and pyrotechnic articles in accordance with the training programmes in accordance with the statutes and other acts applied in the armed forces. Art. 58. (1) The content, order and manner of conducting the training under art. 56 and 57 shall be determined by a decree of the Council of Ministers. (2) The provision of the training under art. 56 and 57 is on the budget of the Ministry of Defense. Section II Temporary Service in the Voluntary Reserve Art. 59. (1) A temporary service in the voluntary reserve shall be carried out by the reserve for a period of up to 6 months. (2) The order for the passage of the termal service into the voluntary reserve shall be determined by the rules of application of the law. (3) The financial provision of the term office in the voluntary reserve shall be at the expense of the budget of the Ministry of Defence. Art. 59a. The term of service in the voluntary reserve shall include a consistent transition to the following stages: 1. initial military training; 2. special military training; 3. execution of tasks in the composition of military formations by the armed forces. Art. 59b. (1) The term of office in the voluntary reserve shall be accepted adult Bulgarian citizens who shall meet the following requirements: 1. have completed at least primary education; 2. fit for service in the voluntary reserve; 3. be psychologically fit for service in the voluntary reserve; 4. not to be convicted of a deliberate crime of a general nature, regardless of rehabilitation; 5. there shall be no criminal proceedings against them for a deliberate criminal offence of a general nature; 6. have no other citizenship; 7. not to be 40 years old in the year of application; 8. no military service, temporary service or military training. (2) The Minister of Defence may appoint positions for reservers of the temporary service in the voluntary reserve to be occupied by Bulgarian citizens of dual citizenship, subject to the requirements of the Law on the Protection of Classified Information. (3) The capacity to serve in the voluntary reserve under para. 1, t. 2 shall be determined by military medical authorities under conditions and by order laid down by an act of the Minister of Defence. (4) Psychological suitability for temporary service in the voluntary reserve under para. 1, t. 3 shall be determined by specialized units and bodies of psychological provision under conditions and by order laid down by an act of the Minister of Defence. (5) The circumstances under para. 1, t. 4 shall be established in a professional capacity. Art. 59c. (1) The positions designated for acceptance of the provisional service in the voluntary reserve shall be announced by order of the Minister of Defence and shall be published on the websites of the Ministry of Defence and the Central Military District. (2) The functions of para. 1 are occupied by Bulgarian citizens who meet the requirements of art. 59b, in order laid down by the Rules on Law Enforcement. Art. 59 C.E. (1) The right of execution of the provisional service in the voluntary reserve shall arise on the basis of a contract concluded with or authorized by the Minister of Defence. (2) The procedure for the conclusion of the contract of temporary service in the voluntary reserve shall be laid down by the rules for the application of the law. (3) In the contract under para. 1 the name of the position to which the reserver is appointed, the corresponding military title, the duration of the contract and the duration of the stages under art. 59a, the place of service, remuneration, rights and obligations of the parties to the contract, and particulars of the employer/reservation body shall be provided. (4) For the time of execution of the contract under para. 1 Reservers shall have the status of servicemen with the rights and obligations corresponding to the post held, with the exception of the rights under art. 226, 226b, 226c, use of military clubs, rest and sports base under art. Art. 226, Art. 226h of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria and the restrictions under art. 182, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 188 of the same law. Art. 59e. The contract referred to in art. 59d, para. 1 may be terminated before the expiry of the period without any notice being due by either Party in the following cases: 1. by mutual agreement of the Parties, expressed in writing; 2. after the completion of the first or second stage of a written proposal of each Party; 3. in the event of failure to comply with an obligation under this law or under the contract; 4. where classified information is withdrawn or denied, if the post held requires such information; 5. when accepting military service; 6. if the reserver ceases to meet any of the requirements of art. 59b, para. 1; 7. in the event of death of the reserver. Art. 59f. (1) For the period of service in the voluntary reserve, the reserver shall receive a basic monthly remuneration in accordance with the post held and the military title assigned. (2) The amount of the basic monthly remuneration under para. 1 shall be determined by an act of the Minister of Defence. Art. 59g. During the implementation of the temporary service in the voluntary reserve of the reserve, accommodation under conditions and by order determined by an act of the Minister of Defence shall be provided. Art. 59z. (1) At the time of implementation of the contract of temporary service in the voluntary reserve, the reserver shall be entitled to unpaid work leave by the employer/authority of appointment under art. 158 of the Labour Code, Art. 62, para. 1, t. 6 and para. 3 of the Civil Service Act or under art. 332, para. 2 and 3 of the Law on the Judiciary. (2) During the performance of the temporary service in the voluntary reserve, the employment or service with the reserve cannot be terminated by the employer/deputy body, except when the undertaking under art. 328, para 1, t. 1 of the Labour Code or at the closure of the administration under art. 106, para. 1, t. 1 of the Civil Service Act. (3) The employer/reservation body shall be entitled to monetary compensation from the State for the time during which the reserver was in temporary service in the voluntary reserve, under the conditions and under the terms of art. 46. Art. 59th. (1) The reserves under art. 59 paid leave shall be made at a rate of 8 working days. (2) Upon termination of the contract, the reserver shall be entitled to monetary compensation for unused paid leave under para. 1. (3) The terms and conditions for the use of leave, as well as the amount of the cash compensation for unused leave under para. 2 shall be determined by the rules of application of the law. Art. 59k. After implementation of the contract of temporary service in the voluntary reserve under art. 59d, para. 1 Bulgarian citizens can be accepted without a contest: 1. in military service if they meet the requirements for admission under art. 141, para. Art. 1, art. 182, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 188 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria; 2. in service in the voluntary reserve if they meet the requirements of art. 24. Art. 59l. Bulgarian citizens who have entered the voluntary reserve under art. 59, para. 1 shall benefit from an advantage when applying for a job in the public administration, including in the authorities and structures in the system for the protection of national security, with equal results of the procedure being carried out.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u57	Thank you. Statements? Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u58	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to make two editorial proposals in the text. First, in art. 56, para. 4 I propose in the version of the Commission for art. 56, para. 4 words the armed forces and the structures of direct subordination of the Minister of Defence and the structures of direct subordination of the Minister of Defence and the Bulgarian Army. Second, in the version of art. 57 to drop para. 2 and the other paragraphs shall be renumbered. Since voluntary training by the Ministry of Defence is certain that it will result, I propose that this paragraph be dismissed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u59	- What's the line? None Statements? Mr. Milev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u60	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Another confirmation of what I said before in art. 59 of Mr. Mihov's report, which says that the financial security of the voluntary reserve is at the expense of the budget of the Ministry of Defence. The adoption of these amendments after the adoption of the state budget once again shows that we do not take the assembly of the Bulgarian army seriously. Exactly in this direction and Mr. Gajev withdrew his proposals, which did not correspond with the basic understandings even to the government. I believe that it is not serious for everything to be done at the expense of the budget of the Ministry of Defence, because in the staff for which funds are planned, we know that they are more for the staff than for the staff and, from this point of view, there is no money for the voluntary reserve. Moreover, it is so written in the motives that these amendments do not affect the state budget. They, since they do not influence the state budget, mean that the Council of Ministers is also not responsible for the assembly of the Bulgarian Army. It is in this regard that I believe that we are right that this law is putting the cart in front of the horse, since the state budget has already been voted, and we are now just pulling over the number of proposals to pass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u61	Thank you, Mr. Milev. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm calling off the debate. Let's move on to the vote. First, I'm going to put to the vote Mr. Gazhev's proposal for editing in art. 56, para. 4. They voted 106 MPs: 87, none against, abstention 19. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the second proposal for editorial amendments to the text which Mr. Gazhev made for the removal of para. Art. 2 of art. 57. 100 MPs voted: for 100, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 18, which shall become § 19 with the amendments already adopted. They voted 102 MPs: 79, none, abstention 23. The proposed text has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u62	According to § 19 there is a proposal of the MP Konstantin Popov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 19, which shall become § 20: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 61 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 3: (a) c. 1 the words "sergeants (sergeants), officers candidates and junior officers" shall be deleted; (b) A new item shall be created. 2: "2." for the sergeants (sergeants), the officers' candidates and junior officers for 60 years; c) the current t. 2 becomes t. 3 and in it, the words "sixty-two years' shall be replaced by sixty-two years. (d) the so-called t. 3 becomes t. 4 and in it, the words "six years" and "six years" shall be replaced by 65 years; and "six years" shall be replaced by "six years." 2. The creation of para. 5. (5) The age limit for the service in the reserve of persons under para. 1, t. 3 is 63 years. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20, which shall become § 21, in which the words....................................................................................... 1.................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21 which shall become § 22. Under § 22, there is a proposal of the MP Konstantin Popov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 22, which shall become § 23: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 79 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 1 the words "sergeants (sergeants), officers candidates and junior officers" shall be deleted; (b) A new item shall be created. 2: "2." for the sergeants (sergeants), the officers' candidates and junior officers for 60 years; c) the current t. 2 becomes t. 3 and in it, the words..60 years are replaced by.62 years.................................................................................................... (d) the so-called t. 3 becomes t. 4 and in it, the words "sixty-three years" shall be replaced by "six hundred and fifty-five years." 2. The creation of para. 3: . (3) The age limit for keeping a military report of the reserve personnel who have ceased their service with structures under art. 50, para. 2 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria is 63 years old. Under § 23, there is a proposal of the MP Konstantin Popov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 23, which shall become § 24: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 81 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 2 the words "useful status and knowledge of foreign languages" shall be replaced by "useful status," foreign language knowledge, passage of service and health status." 2. In para. 3 the words "senior status and citizenship" shall be replaced by "senior status, citizenship and death certificate." 3. In para. 4 the words "the relevant schools' shall be replaced by the corresponding schools and secondary schools, sports schools, culture schools and arts schools, as well as by the kept registers respectively under art. 50, para. 2, p. 1 of the Law on Vocational Education and Training under art. 10, para. 2, p. Point 3 (d) of the Higher Education Act The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 24, which shall become § 25. Under § 25, there is a proposal of the MP Konstantin Popov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 25, which shall become § 26: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Section I of Chapter Six establishes art. 84a: Art. 84a. The military districts shall notify the reserve persons under Article in writing. 61, para. 1, t. 4 to charge a military report and their duties under the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 26, which shall become § 27.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u63	Statements? I won't. I will put to the vote the following texts: the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 19, which becomes § 20; the text of the importer for § 20, which becomes § 21, with the proposal of replacement in the text made by the Commission; the text of the importer for § 21, which becomes § 22; the text of the importer under § 22, with the version proposed by the Commission, shall be § 23; the version proposed by the Commission for § 23, which shall be § 24; the text of the importer for § 24, which shall be § 25; the version proposed by the Commission for § 25, which shall become § 26, and the text of the importer for § 26, which shall become § 27. They voted 98 MPs: 78, none, abstention 20. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u64	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 27, which shall become § 28. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 28, which shall become § 29. Under § 29, there is a proposal of the MP Konstantin Popov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 29, which shall become § 30, and in that regard shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 the words "Point 6" shall be replaced by "In para." 1 t. 6.................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 30, which shall become § 31. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 31, which shall become § 32. Proposal of the MPs Krasimir Bogdanov, Milen Mihov, Boris Vangelov, Julian Angelov, Dean Stanchev, Alexander Siddi, Maria Tsvetkova, Kalin Popovski, Yordan Yordanov, Stoyan Bozhinov, Iskren Veselinov and Alexander Sabanov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Milen Mihov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 33: ................................................ In the Law on Military Disabilities and Military Victims (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 3, para. 1 after the word "Safety." The students from the higher military schools are added. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4 t. 1 after the word "Safety." The students from the higher military schools are added. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 17, para. 1, in the text before t. 1 the words............................................................................. 4 t. 1 and 4s are deleted. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 19th para. 2 words under art. 4 t. 1 and 4s are deleted. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22, para. 1 the words............................................................................. 4 t. 1 and 4s 6. In the additional provisions, Paragraph 1 establishes a point. 3: "3." They are students within the meaning of the Defence Act and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 32, which shall become § 34. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 33 which shall become § 35. Under § 34, there is a proposal of the National Representative Hristo Gazhev, made in accordance with Article 34. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 34, which shall become § 36: ................................ 36.................................................. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union, with the exception of art. 57, para. 2, which shall enter into force from 1 September 2022
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u65	Thank you. One clarification, Mr. Mihov. In the dropout of para. Two...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u66	Yes, I was just about to make an offer, if I may.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u67	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u68	Mr. Chairman, in connection with the dropping of art. 57, para. 2 I am making an editorial proposal........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 57, para. 2, which shall enter into force from 1 September 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u69	Thank you. This is your proposal, as your MP, for an editorial amendment.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u70	Yes, in view of the decisions that have been made.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u71	Okay. Thank you. Any lines to Mr. Mihov? Any other speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I will put to the vote the amendment proposal in § 34, which becomes § 36 made by the MP Milen Mihov. Vote 91 MPs: for 76, against 1, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. I now put the following texts to the vote: the text of the importer for the name of the subdivision; the text of the importer for § 27, which becomes § 28, and § 28, which becomes § 29; the text of the importer for § 29, which becomes § 30 with the replacements proposed by the Commission; the text of the importer for § 30, which becomes § 31; and § 31, which becomes § 32; the text of the importer for the creation of a new § 33 by the wording of the Commission Report; the text of the importer for § 32 and § 33, which become § 34 and § 45 respectively; the version proposed by the Commission, for § 34, which becomes § 36, but with the editorial amendment already adopted in the text of § 34. They voted 99 MPs: 83, none, abstention 16. The texts put to the vote have been adopted. Let's move on to the next point: ANNUAL YOUTH REPORT 2019 Importer of the Council of Ministers. Who will present the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports Report?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u72	Access procedure one, Mr. Chairman. Please, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly shall be permitted to allow admission in the plenary of Mr. Nikolay Pavlov, Deputy Minister of Youth and Sports.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u73	I shall put the proposal to the vote. 88 MPs voted: 84, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Please continue with the presentation of the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u74	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe The Committee on Children, Youth and Sports at a regular meeting held on 28 October 2020 discussed and discussed the Annual Report on Youth for 2019. No 002-00-28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 October In accordance with The meeting was attended by Mr. Nikolay Pavlov, Deputy Minister of Youth and Sports, Mrs. Milena Andreeva, Director of the Directorate of.......................................................................................... On behalf of the importer, the report was presented by Mr. Nikolai Pavlov. In his statement he informed the Members of the National Assembly that the Annual Report on Youth shall be drawn up on the basis of art. 5, para. 2 of the Youth Act adopted by the National Assembly on 5 April 2012. The Annual Youth Report 2019 presents information on the state of youth in the country and takes into account the measures taken by the responsible institutions to meet the objectives of public youth policy in 2019. The report uses data from the National Statistical Institute, EUROSTAT and other national and international studies, with the results showing that some trends, such as youth unemployment and the number of youth dropouts, marked a permanent decrease. For the purposes of the Report, which is the Ministry of Youth and Sport, a survey has been carried out among the target group for 15 years. The questions set out in the study follow the main topics and priorities of the National Programme and the National Strategy for Youth 2010 - 2020. The report shall provide information on programmes, projects and measures for employment and training financed by the State budget. There is a tendency to increase the activity of institutions in the provision of social services to children, young people and families aimed at supporting vulnerable groups. The report reports that Bulgarian youths do not have serious social deficits. A key question for young people is the indicator of a degree of satisfaction with their lifestyle. The data show that 75% of young people in Bulgaria indicate that they are fully satisfied or rather satisfied with their lifestyle. Young people who are in a difficult social situation are mostly part of ethnic minorities, which is the main factor for their low social status. Improving the quality of life of the most vulnerable groups in society is part of social inclusion policy. It is implemented through a number of programmes and measures, including those aimed at children and youth. Youths in a vulnerable situation need much more support related to both their transition to independent life and the provision of opportunities for realization and creation of conditions for a full life in society. Social services are an important element in supporting young people, whether they consult, carrying out work on risk prevention or improving quality of life. In fulfilling the priority of promoting healthy lifestyles, the Ministry of Sports is administering the implementation under the program "Sports for children in leisure time" and 170 approved projects in 40 sports in 64 settlements, with a total number of 7,000 children and young people under the leadership of 300 sports professionals. The funding under this programme amounts to 920 thousand. lv. There is a tendency to increase the number of returning young people in Bulgaria after completing their education abroad. There is a large share of young people who are not interested in politics. The priority of the Ministry of Youth and Sports is the fight and prevention of all forms of aggression and addiction among young people in connection with which activities are implemented as set out in the National Youth Programme. As regards the Programme for the Prevention of Chronic Infectious Diseases, activities have been implemented aimed at limiting risk factors related to lifestyle (smoking, unhealthy eating, low physical activity, alcohol use, etc.). Different educational methods and forms of training are used: lectures, lectures and discussions. The report shall provide information on the number of acts carried out by the children's pedagogical room in association with minors. The need for cooperation of institutions to conduct policies on the personal and professional development of young people and to prevent the causes of crime and social exclusion is reported. In conclusion, Mr. Pavlov pointed out that the policy of the Ministry of Youth and Sports will continue to be aimed at encouraging students for systematic activities with sports, creating habits for healthy motor activity and sports performance. In the subsequent discussion the people representative Ivan Chenchev expressed reservations about the effectiveness of the implemented policies, measures and activities aimed at young people in the country. As a result of the discussion and on the basis of the 11-vote vote held, 5-votes against...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u75	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Report of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Mr. Ademov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on draft Decision adopting the 2019 Annual Youth Report, No 002-00-28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 October 2020. The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee at its regular meeting held on 04 November 2020 discussed and discussed a draft decision adopting the Annual Youth Report for 2020, No 002-00-28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 October 2020. The meeting was attended by Mr. Nikolay Pavlov, Deputy Minister of Youth and Sports, who presented the Annual Youth Report for 2019. Mr. Pavlov pointed out that the information in the Annual Youth Report is in line with the main priorities of the youth policy in the country, enshrined in the National Youth Strategy (2010 According to the report, the number of young people in the country aged 15-29 as of 31 December 2019 was 1,042 915, of which 642 912 lived in cities and 251 331 in villages. The target forecast of the National Statistical Institute shows that, like the trend in the European Union, in the period until 2021, the number of young people will decrease, particularly sharply affecting the age groups 15 - 19 and 20 - 24. The report reports that the number of registered unemployed young people by 29 in 2019 is 23,998 average year-on-year, with 2787 less compared to 2018. A reduction trend also marks the number of registered unemployed young people by 24. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the purchase, hire, maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance and maintenance of equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment As of the end of December 2019, the total number of social services in the community for children and adults, including from a resident type, was 11,89, with a total capacity of 24,746 seats. Of them suitable for children and young people aged 18-25 are 763, with a capacity of 15 839. The data in the Report reports that Bulgarian young people do not have serious social deficits, with 75% of young people saying that they are fully satisfied or rather satisfied with their lifestyle. Young people who are in a difficult social situation are mostly part of ethnic minorities, which is the main factor for their low social status. Half of the young people - 51 per cent - do not know their civil rights, and the workers - less than half - 46%. The largest shares of awareness of civil and labour rights are registered after graduates. Young people in Bulgaria are highly optimistic, but there is still a large share of young people who are not interested in politics. There is a low commitment of young Bulgarians in a similar type of activity - members of a political party, association, non-governmental organization or other type of organization, members of a professional organization. There is a need to improve coordination between institutions to increase the effectiveness of early career guidance measures, as well as investment in appropriate forms of training to acquire professional skills and key competences and develop entrepreneurial spirit. In conclusion, Mr. Pavlov said that young people in Bulgaria, such as their peers in Europe, face countless challenges related to their education, realization, quality of life and so on. The Young People's Group is one of the most dynamic because of the rapid transition from one role to another This implies a clear analysis and a definition of clearly achievable targets in relation to each of the designated groups that come into the general population as young. The data clearly shows that nuances among young people require mandatory flexibility in planned activities and measures. The discussion was attended by the MPs Vesela Lecheva, Violeta Jeleva and Galya Zhelyazkova. Following the conclusion of the discussion and voting with 12 votes, 3 votes against the Council and 2 votes, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft decision adopting the Annual Youth Report for 2019, No 002 "28," submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 October 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u77	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. The report from the Health Commission will present to us Mr. Subev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! "COMMODITY" on the 2019 Annual Youth Report, No 002-00-28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 October 2020. At its regular meeting on 10 December 2020, the Health Committee examined and discussed the Annual Report on Youth for 2019, No 002-00-28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 October 2020. The meeting was attended by the Minister of Health, Prof. Kostadin Angelov, Deputy Minister of Health Mrs. Svetlana Yordanova and Mr. Slavi Pachalov, Mr. Nikolay Pavlov, Deputy Minister of Youth and Sports, representatives of word organizations in the field of health, patient and non-governmental organizations. The Annual Youth Report for 2019 was presented by the Deputy Minister of Youth and Sports Mr. Nikolay Pavlov, who informed the MPs that the report was prepared on the grounds of art. 5, para. 2 of the Youth Act and approved annually by the National Assembly. The main objective of the document is to show the specific problems for this target group, the lifestyle of young people and their attitudes and values, as well as to take into account the measures taken to achieve the objectives of public youth policy. The statistical data in the Report reports that Bulgaria follows the general trend of ageing of the population for the European Union. Young people are constantly decreasing, with the most alarming trend in the 15 - year - old age group. The level of migration of young people from small towns to cities is preserved, with more than three quarters of young people living in cities and only a quarter in villages. During the reporting period the Ministry of Health has implemented in the country a significant number of activities on health promotion and prevention of diseases among children and students within the National Programme for the Prevention of Chronic Infectious Diseases 2014 - 2020. A number of activities have been implemented to increase the level of awareness, training and inclusion of young people by 19 under the priorities of "Tustuno smokin', "Pots', "Pots', "Pots', "Pots' and "Low Physical Activity'. In the implementation of the Operational Objective "Increasing the sexual culture of young people" by the National Strategy for Youth 2010 " 2020," in 2019 the International Institute for Youth Development PETRI "Sofia" at the National Center for Public Health and Analyses has conducted campaigns "Antispin and Antidroga." In 2019, the activities of the National Student Competition continued in support of the healthy lifestyle of young people. Partners of the competition are the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Youth and Sports, the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Environment and Water, as well as the representation of the European Commission in Bulgaria. It was emphasized that this year's edition of the competition was attended by a record number of students over 5500 from 1st to 11th grade from all over the country, along with their teachers and parents. In 2019 the National Program for the Implementation of Youth Activities under art. 10a of the Gambling Act administered by the Ministry of Youth and Sports has been implemented in three main directions for the active impact on young people in the country by promoting socially responsible behaviour among them, aimed at the impact and change of the behavioral patterns of young people. The main priority of the Programme is to provide a supportive and encouraging environment for the personal, professional and social realization of young people in the country by building socially responsible behavior and preventing forms of dependence and aggression to improve the quality of life and the environment in which young people live and communicate. With regard to preventive reviews in 2019 52% of young people declare that they have benefited from their right to a doctor's doctor's checkup and only 24% with a dentist. The representatives of the target group, who define their health status as excellent and very good, are 90%. In terms of physical activity, the information presented in the document shows that 58% of young people in Bulgaria do not play sports. The data in the report on a study on young people's attitudes regarding harmful habits clearly shows their awareness of the negatives associated with the use of drugs, alcohol and cigarettes, as well as the possible consequences for sexual contact without protection. It is obvious that educational institutions and society have created in young people reasoned messages about the harmfulness and danger of these indicators. Data show that the settlement is the most important factor that outlines the differences between young people, and due to the great dynamics in this age group is also an indicator that outlines the differences between young people. The main conclusions in the document draw the attention of the competent institutions to a clear outline of the groups among young people, which will enable them to build relevant policies by demonstrating flexibility in planning coordinated and targeted activities and measures for the benefit of young people in Bulgaria. On the basis of the discussion held and the vote taken by 11 votes for the 2019 Annual Youth Report, 1 vote against the 2019 National Assembly, and 2 votes abstentioned, the Committee on Health shall propose to the National Assembly to adopt a draft decision approving the Annual Youth Report for 2019, No 002"28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 October 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u79	Thank you, Mr. Subev. The opinion of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order will present to us Mr. Nunev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u80	Mr President, honourable Members, I would like to offer your attention. "COMMODITY" on the 2019 Annual Youth Report, No 002-00-28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 October 2020. At its regular meeting on 28 October 2020, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed the Annual Report on Youth for 2019, No 002-00-28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 October 2020. The meeting was attended by Mr. Nikolay Pavlov, Deputy Minister of Youth and Sports, and Mrs. Milena Andreeva, Director of the Directorate of the Ministry of Youth and Sports. The annual youth report for 2019 was presented by Deputy Minister Nikolay Pavlov. The report shall be drawn up and submitted on the basis of art. 5, para. 2 of the Youth Act. The Annual Report sets out changes in the socio-economic situation of young people and takes into account the implementation of the priorities and objectives of the National Youth Strategy in the relevant year. The Ministry of Interior's activity report states that in 2019 a total of 46 433 perpetrators of crimes were identified, including registered in previous years, of which 40 749 of criminal and 5684 of economic crimes. During the accounting year, 19 197 offenders were young people aged 14 years, which was 41.34% of the total number of perpetrators identified. Minors, between 14 years of age and 17 years of age, are 9.2% and minors under 14 years of age are 3.4 percent. In comparison with 2018, the total number of perpetrators found decreased by 1%, with the greatest reduction in juvenile offenders by 7%. The number of minors increased by 2.7%. Strukturo-determining child crime continues to be property crimes, mainly thefts prevail. The prevention of youth and child crime is active, with the Ministry of Interior participating jointly with other state institutions and NGOs in the implementation of national programmes related to children's anti-legal behaviour and child protection. In 2019, there are 163 children's police departments throughout the country, training 3699 children aged 8 to 12 years. Under the National Program the police work in the schools was delivered 8713 lectures and lectures in 1519 schools in the country. In cooperation with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNCRC), brochures and audio files are made for unaccompanied children seeking or receiving international protection in different languages, which will be provided to regional governments and published on the specialized website "Child Security." In 2019 at the national level of the Ministry of Interior 4 traditional campaigns have been implemented. Let's keep them on the road and campaign for the 8th of December student holiday. Within the campaign the children go to school! Let's keep them on the road! "The week for prevention of children's road safety and Day of prevention was held September 29th. The campaigns cover graduates and students from all schools in the country. In the campaign for the student holiday are covered young people celebrating in public places. With Decree No 21 of 1 February 2019 was established the State Agency "Safety of Road Traffic." The government's decision on the introduction of a new model for road safety management in the Republic of Bulgaria is based on the analysis and findings of deficiencies in the field and is in line with the good practices and recommendations of international institutions defining as an important factor for success the existence of a coordination unit to develop, coordinate and control the implementation of this priority state policy. Globally, road accidents are the main cause of mortality among young people aged between 5 and 29. The rate of deaths among drivers aged 15-24 is twice as high as that of experienced drivers. Another important point in the assessment of young people's participation in public life is their attitude towards criminal and antisocial behavior. Young people's responses to the violation of the rules largely outline the picture in two main aspects: what they would do in the event of wrong behaviour or situation, as well as the level of civil responsibility. With a personal security problem, 49% of young people would turn to the police. It should be noted that the high percentage of young people who are not civilly active 69% have not submitted and do not intend to submit an alert against an infringement which they have witnessed. The conclusion that can be made is a two-way... on the one hand, this may be an assessment of the futility of such a type of action, and on the other hand, it can be taken into account that this is a lack of a sense of adequate action after such an act. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order proposed that the National Assembly adopt a draft decision approving the Annual Youth Report for 2019, No 002"28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 October 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u81	Thank you, Mr. Nunev. Report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u82	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government on the Annual Report on Youth for 2019, No 002-002-28, submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 29 October 2020, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government discussed the Annual Report on Youth for 2019, No 002-00-28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 October 2020. Representatives of the Ministry of Youth and Sports took part in the Commission meeting: Mr. Nikolay Pavlov On behalf of the importer, the report was presented by Mr. Nikolai Pavlov. The annual report on youth for 2019 shall be drawn up on the basis of art. 5 of the Youth Act. For the purposes of the Annual Report, a national representative survey among young people in the country, the Ministry of Youth and Sport, is carried out in 2020. The report is a combination of aggregated information from all institutions whose activities relate to young people in the country, data from the National Statistical Institute, Eurostat and other national and international studies related to the topic of the document and the reporting period, and from the national representative survey. The structure of the report is in line with the main priorities of the policy for young people in the country, laid down in the National Strategy for Youth 2010 - 2020 adopted by the Council of Ministers. The main aspects and priorities laid down in the 2010 National Youth Strategy are improving the quality of life of young people through sustainable mechanisms for investing in youth as significant social capital for the development of the country, promoting economic activity and career development, improving access to information and quality services, promoting a healthy lifestyle, preventing the social exclusion of young people in disadvantaged situations, developing youth volunteering, raising civic activity, developing young people in small towns and rural areas, developing international and intercultural dialogue and increasing the role of young people in crime prevention. The report presents structured and comprehensive information on the results of all main priorities and the measures and activities taken by the state institutions and municipalities in the country for their implementation for 2019. The relevant conclusions and recommendations for the activities of the individual priorities are made, providing for the actions to be taken by the responsible institutions to improve the living and realization conditions of young people in the country. In the course of the discussion by Commissioners, questions were raised and discussed topics related to the real financial support of the young people to whom the representatives of the Ministry of Youth and Sport responded. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 10 votes for the Council of Ministers and 5 votes for the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the draft decision approving the Annual Youth Report for 2019, No 002"28, submitted by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u83	Thank you, Mr. Dinev. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u84	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I thank you for having people in this Chamber, because this is a topic which I consider extremely important to the Bulgarian society. We have heard from the report that we are taking into account what priorities we have in the area of youth. However, no matter how many priorities we have, we need to see what the results of these priorities are. We, of course, are undoubtedly consistent and will again say from this tribune that we have tabled at least four times for our debate the Youth Act which, of course, you know, did not even reach the plenary. You will now see our criticisms, which I consider objective. You will see that this topic is important and we need absolute consensus on it. I'm going to read you some of the numbers that are in the Report I'm not telling you. Firstly, I congratulate the people who have done the polls for this report, because in fullness they have covered the real situation, a lot of work has been done, but in fact see what the real situation shows! We have, of course, rightly expressed our opinion, but the Ministry has, over the years, stated a lasting trend in improving the results. There's no way we can agree to this, because there's not a lot to worry about us. The report talks about the National Strategy for Youth, which, you notice, is from 2010 to 2020, which means the National Strategy for Youth expires. However, we do not have any analysis of this ten-year period in order to be able to step on such an analysis, to see what the results of this strategy are, because we now have the ministry's assurance, of course, that a new strategy is being worked on, which is in a future ten-year period. But without an analysis of the old one, how do we proceed to the new one? We have asked the Commission to have such an analysis, I hope it will be provided to us. What are we going to bet on the new youth strategy? The report points to alarming trends in the villages, if memory serves, the report says there are 250,000. young people who are trained and receive their education in these Bulgarian villages. Yes, but this report says that fewer children in the villages are graduating from secondary school. Here's an alarming trend. Notice something that, to put it mildly disturbing, is extremely disturbing. children have never gone to school, that is, they are outside the scope of any policies and programmes that should be implemented. As it became clear, money on most programs, or on all of them, there is, but the question is how are they spent and what is their effectiveness? The report writes, I quote: The different conditions for education among children are a prerequisite for problems in their subsequent implementation. Why there are different conditions for education, this is the subject of a very separate analysis, but I think that serious consideration should be given to this fact. The report also states that the largest share are students who have gone abroad -- 7500 for 2019, or 46%, followed by the share of school dropouts due to, notice the unwillingness to study, there are nearly 10%. This is also a problem, and it is a problem of these programmes, because we need to know if they are implemented, as we are assured, is there sufficient effectiveness in them? I am impressed that a report in children's pedagogical rooms has led 9167 minors to commit various crimes of their own nature. Their numbers are increasing by nearly a percent. Taken from a children's pedagogical room, notice, there are 44%, but this is not because of the application or effectiveness of any program, but because of the age of these individuals at the age of 18 and their exit from the scope of the children's pedagogical room. Thirty-five percent of young people with higher education live with their parents, ladies and gentlemen of parliament. Thirty-five percent! And this is an age that shouldn't suggest such a thing. There is a high dependence of young people on material support from parents, which is up to late age, again according to the Report. This trend remains in the years. So we need to be careful with the new strategy I was talking about at the beginning. Forty-six percent of young people in the polls reported smoking, 42% admitted that they were using hard alcohol, and only 33% were working on what they were studying. Of course, there is still a lot of data here, but as the weather progresses, I will finally say: we have also heard from the reporters who read the reports from the various committees - 58% of the Bulgarian youth have said, declared that they are not sports. That is why I say that with the joint efforts of everyone in this Chamber, of course, of the people who are in the Ministry, we must seriously reduce this percentage. You know about the alarming trends in the health and physical performance of Bulgarian young people. Therefore, our parliamentary group will not support this report precisely because of those numbers that I have listed for you just now. Of course, there are many others, but I believe that you have gained an idea of what is troubling BSP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Are there lines? I can't see. Statements? Mr. Tanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u86	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The youth report is an extremely important document that we are looking at today. I say important because in turn it shows what are the trends in the work and development of young people and what are the things that we need to focus on. I will draw attention to several key points in the report, namely youth employment, migration, volunteering and opportunities for young people to access the Internet and various types of electronic devices. As far as youth employment is concerned, we need to be aware, i.e. from the data shown in the Report, it becomes clear that it decreases, i.e. young people who are not employed are much less than previous years. This is extremely important because we also see something else in the Report, namely that young people with a higher degree of education are much easier to find their jobs. My speech will also be related to what the speaker said. Here is the moment when we must note that the state, with its Strategy to bring young people and students back to school, has already provided about 1300 teams. The effect of these 1,300 teams is now 6500 young people and children who are returned to school. Something very interesting is pointed out in the report that 4,000 children are returned to school and 2500 are new to this range. This may be the time to mention that young people in turn believe that education in their locality.. about 43% think it is good; 45% of them think they will continue their education in Bulgaria. Here comes the moment when we need to talk about migration. A topic that has been quite discussed back in the years and is a cause for a lot of debate. What we are seeing this year, however, is that 43% of young people say they will live in the place where they live and are currently; 10% say they are ready to migrate; that is, 18% say they are ready to migrate to another city, but to stay in the country and 27% are ready to leave the country. Why do I say volunteering is one of the subjects that is extremely important? I believe that our society has much to learn about how to prepare more for the various voluntary initiatives. Why do I note this as a positive fact? It turns out that 50% of young people have already been part of a voluntary initiative and are ready to re-enter, which gives us the idea to think that in the years ahead we will have a society built by people who are used to such volunteering activities. Finally, in order not to overreact, something that is extremely important in the time we live in. Almost 100% of young people have access to the Internet and almost 100% of young people have access to mobile devices that they can benefit from. Unfortunately, however, there is one part of the young people, a few percent, not so much, who still do not have such access. You know, this is also a topic of the conversations we have about online learning. It is important to note that the government has currently taken different strategies to solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u87	Thank you, Mr. Tanev. Are there lines? The line is Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u88	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tanev, with much of your speech I would agree and thank you for the correct tone. I have to pay attention, because it wasn't a coincidence that I stressed on some numbers that we think are disturbing. In fact, I would like to bruise them precisely because of this, as you think it is an extremely important issue. It wouldn't be bad to have a special debate, a debate on this particular subject. Because the Bulgarian youth also concerns the children, you know very well. There are a lot of suggestions for what to do positively in this direction. Let's bruise the numbers as you mentioned percentages as well. You said they were brought back to school by 2,500. Yeah, but in this report, it says that the biggest share is the students who went abroad, which is 7,500, and that's 46%, something that's disturbing. That's not what I told you about the pedagogical room. Thirty-five percent of those with higher education live with their parents. Perhaps this is one of the reasons why from smaller settlements due to lack of material security they cannot get out of these places and stay there. You have to think about it this way. Thirty-three percent didn't work in their specialty, on what they were studying, what they wanted, recorded, wanted to develop in that direction, and didn't practice it. Of course, the disturbing, extremely disturbing number of 81,000 children who are not in any range have never been to school. So all of this needs to be taken into account and everyone in this House to take this matter most seriously. We had a proposal, you know, a whole draft law. Thank you for your attention. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thank you for reminding me, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Mr. Tanev, the dodger.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chenchev, as far as small settlements are concerned, I think you are absolutely right. I mean, it's also said in the report what you're saying. Here it is important to take into account another trend. The fact that young people in smaller towns say that they are not.. when we talk about education, when we talk about finding jobs and so on. These are trends that I think are normal, given that more elite schools are in major cities. About how to find a job. Here we see different programs, you know them. They are shown in the Report on what the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Economy and so on. As for the fact that 30% of young people do not work in their specialties, this is a trend that is not new for Bulgaria, it is not new for the European Union, I would say at a global level. As technology develops, we see more and more of the possibilities, what knowledge people have, and not so much what they have completed. This is once again the subject of another conversation when it comes to education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u91	Thank you, Mr. Tanev. Colleagues, I suggest we stop for 30 minutes of work and continue the debate after the break. We interrupt for 30 minutes. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u92	We're continuing the hearing. Recorded for speeches Mrs. Petrova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u93	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The Annual Report of the Ministry of Youth is a serious reading, full of many numbers. These numbers can be analyzed in different aspects. My speech relates to the connection between crime and youth and also to the relationship of education and youth. Increasing the role of young people in crime prevention is one of the priorities set out in the 2010 National Youth Strategy, which is now running out as a deadline. According to data from a national representative sociological survey conducted for the purposes of the 2019 Annual Youth Report, police authority remains. Impression makes that the number of registered children's pedagogical rooms in 2019 is 3101 and compared to 2018 the number of new ones decreased by more than 10%. A positive trend is also observed with regard to the anti-social events carried out in 2019, with 6700 minors passing through children's pedagogical rooms, which is a decrease of 166 people compared to 2018. The Ministry of Interior shall actively prevent youth and child crime by participating together with other state institutions and non-governmental organisations in the implementation of national programmes related to children's anti-law behaviour and child protection. As an example of active activities, the National Program can be outlined.The work of the police in the schools is within which police officers give lectures and lectures in the schools in the country. The Campaign of the Ministry of Interior achieves increased awareness among young people regarding the knowledge of the Road Traffic Act, administrative criminal responsibility and the consequences of violations. Among them are the annual implementation of four traditional campaigns. Keeping the children's lives on the road, the children are going to school! Let's keep them on the road! Last but not least, it is necessary to mention that the Ministry of Education and Science and the Ministry of Youth and Sports carry out activities aimed at road safety for children from kindergartens and schools and in preventing aggression among young people set out in the implementation of programmes administered by both ministries. With regard to the efforts and work of the field in the field of education, attention deserves the mechanism for joint work of the institutions on covering, including and preventing dropping out of the educational system of children and students in compulsory pre-school and school age and cooperation with all stakeholders to form a sustainable, integrated policy and engagement of all responsible institutions to ensure the right of education of each child and student. According to data from the Ministry of Education and Science, the results of the activities of the teams during the academic year 2018 show an increased number of teams for scope and performed tours, as a result of which 6500 children and students at compulsory school age were returned to the educational system. According to the study, the high level of education proved to be decisive for the satisfaction of young people with their work. The data shows a high level of satisfaction among young people in Bulgaria. 75% indicate that they are fully satisfied or rather satisfied with their lifestyle, and 17% are dissatisfied with their lifestyle. The measures implemented by the responsible institutions in accordance with the 2010 National Youth Strategy contribute to the improvement of informal and formal education and satisfaction of young people in the country through the implementation of various programmes, initiatives, projects, competitions and others. Among them we can highlight the National Program "Science Education," the National Program "Profession of the Meteorologist and Hydrologist" and the National Program "Student Olympics and Competitions" and others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Petrova. Are there lines? Here you go, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u95	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Petrova, you've been quoting numbers. And in my speech before the break I quoted numbers, they are from this report. Your numbers and the numbers from the report have some kind of gap. You were talking about a children's pedagogical room. I give you the exact number of the Report of a report in the children's pedagogical rooms 9167 minors are led to commit various crimes of their nature. Their numbers increased by a percentage, but, notice, taken from a children's pedagogical room were 44%, and due to the age of 18 years. That's why they were taken, because you said, if memory serves, that about 6,000 children are in children's pedagogical rooms, according to the report are 9167. Of course, you gave us other numbers, but it's of particular importance to me. Regarding what you said, the 6500 children were returned to schools. You know, they should be returned there and there should be in these groups representatives of the municipality, of the social services, of the police. It doesn't happen in many places. Usually a principal or a class manager prays to the parents to let the student go, so it happens in many places, I've seen it in person. And, of course, that they have returned 6,500, if so, for how long have they been returned? Because in two days, if we check this number, it suddenly turns out it's not at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u96	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Are there any other lines? I can't see. Mrs. Petrova, please come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u97	Dear Mr. Chenchev, my duplicate will link to the numbers that I said concern the 2019 Report. Indeed 6500 are returned students and this is according to the Ministry of Education and Science. That's what I said. With regard to registered persons in children's pedagogical rooms, the number I used in my exhibition is from the Report we read together with you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Petrova. The next speech recorded is Mr. Ali.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u99	Dear Deputy Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It is apparent from the 2019 Youth Report, honourable Members, that the demographic crisis, I would say, is the demographic catastrophe, as we in the "Movement for Rights and Freedoms" are calling things by their real names, more and more in the last ten years, unfortunately, is deepening in our country. In 2019, our country's population decreased by 50 thousand. Souls. In 2019 it was recorded that the population of the country decreased by a little over 51 thousand. people, and this for our country's standards is close to a medium-sized municipality in our country. That is, in the last two years, honourable Members, the population of our country has decreased by a little over 100,000. Souls. Again in the 2019 Report it is recorded that newborns, live-born children in 2019 are 659 less compared to 2018. The same is recorded in the 2018 Report. Then the newborns compared to 2017 are with a thousand newborn children less. This, honourable Members, unfortunately, is the real picture of the demographic crisis in our country today. Demographic crisis due to the deteriorating economic environment in our country and the fact that young people do not receive real support from the state and prefer to emigrate from their own homeland. My fellow Members, it is no different with regard to the territorial distribution of the population. It is pointed out that the ever-accounting imbalance that is observed between the small settlement and the big city in terms of access to education, in terms of access to health care, if any, is being offered in the small populated area, or in terms of the imbalance of investment in small settlements, investment in the creation of new jobs, is forcing more and more young people, and not only, to leave our country, to go to work and live abroad, unfortunately. Honourable Members, this report for 2019 is the third consecutive report that we are looking at in the Forty-fourth National Assembly, and I can quite safely say that it is nothing different from the 2017 Report, from the 2018 Report, except for the figures, except for the data on the declining share of young people, unfortunately, in Bulgaria. In addition, what my colleague mentioned before me, what is different in this report is that for the first time, notice, for the first time in Report 2019, what is different from the two previous reports is that one indicator is accounted for, one huge army of 81 thousand. people who have never gone to school in Bulgaria. We at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms say that if these young people are not covered in the following years by the education system, they will be the problem of the entire Bulgarian society. Because you know that there is a wise thought that says, "Better is a smart adversary than an ignorant friend." And that means that in the last ten years the government has done absolutely nothing to suppress the illiteracy of this vast army of 81,000. Souls. Honourable Members, my attention has quite naturally and rightly drawn the section of the 2019 Report. "Consequences of children and minors in 2019." First of all, there is a figure in sight and I will confirm it: 9167 young people who are reported in a children's pedagogical room. The report shows that at the end of 2019, almost one second 50% of these young people, of these children are taken from a children's pedagogical room report and it is only natural to think that this is the result of programmes that were implemented to young people in 2019. Yes, dear colleagues, but that is not the case. They were taken from a report due to their age, and many questions followed. Questions such as: What happens to these young people who have lived in a criminogenic environment not of their own free will and will; is work continued with these young people? All issues to which this report for 2019 and the two previous reports for 2017 and 2018, honourable Members, unfortunately, do not respond. The truth, honourable Members, is this: that in the last ten years many young people, notice, very young, capable, capable people literally fled the country due to the deteriorating economic situation that you have proposed over the past ten years. And unfortunately, because I have many friends who are abroad, they do not see an alternative, they do not see at present, with this management things in Bulgaria to be better, because everyone dreams of coming back, working and living here, raising their children here in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u100	- What's the line? I don't see anyone who wants to. The next statement is Mrs. Zhelyazkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u101	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Mr. Deputy Minister! Today we are looking at the Youth and Sports Report prepared by the Ministry of Youth and Sports. Undoubtedly over the years of work, contrary to the claim that the previous spokespersons said, the quality of planning and preparation of the report has increased significantly. We cannot fail to note that a large part of the recommendations that were on previous reports such as 2013 and 2018 are reflected in the 2019 Report. I therefore congratulate the efforts of the Ministry of Youth and Sports to prepare the Report and despite the situation created with the spread of COVID-19, a national representative survey among young people for the purposes of the Report was also carried out. The report impresses the introduction of new youth-oriented initiatives by the responsible institutions, as on the other hand, that such initiatives and measures have been maintained and implemented over the years, which have proven to be effective for the development of young people in educational, professional, social and personal terms. Such an example is the National Program "Activation of Inactive Persons." This, in turn, demonstrates a consistent and thorough policy and analysis of what works as a measure and what does not. Dear colleagues, young people are undoubtedly the most difficult age group. Given the rapid pace of development of the world and the dynamic environment, so the young generation has changed its priorities rapidly. The rapid transition from one role to another.Education, work, family and others leads to a number of challenges facing young people. Each of us, I hope, realizes that working with young people is strictly individual and difficult to get to the norm. Therefore, institutions must become more flexible when working and developing policies aimed at this age group. What is most important to note is that the 2019 report is another report that leads to positive conclusions and trends. One of them is, as some of the colleagues have also mentioned, an indicator of the degree of satisfaction regarding life. 75% point out that they are satisfied with their lifestyle. The working young people mainly work in the locality where they live 63% are satisfied with their current work, and 53% of the workers have had no difficulty finding work. The issue of migration remains a key issue. This is a topic that we comment on every year when we talk about the Youth Report. This time it impresses that the majority of young people would still live where they live at the moment. Yes, 27% of them point out that at the first opportunity they would go to live abroad, but this cannot be the case because young people in Bulgaria are no different from young people in the European Union and in the world and migration is a topic that does not only concern our country, it concerns every Member State. However, free movement and work in different countries is one of the European Union's fundamental rules and does not only cover young people. Unfortunately, the share of young people who do not exercise remains high. I am surprised that colleagues who are members of the Sports Commission did not note this fact It is here that the responsibility of the institution is shown by the Ministry of Youth and Sports, the measures and policies that they are leading in this direction. Driven by his efforts to reduce this percentage, the Ministry of Youth and Sports constantly reveals programs and measures to combat this percentage. Some of them are promoting healthy lifestyles, development of sports in schools, retention of talented athletes, student Olympiads and competitions. In 2017 during the election campaign Political Party GERB made a commitment to work for the construction of gymnasiums where there is no. I am glad that we can congratulate ourselves that this year funds are provided for around 50 gyms, which are not only located in large cities, are also located in small municipalities, where there is also a need for such gymnasiums. In combination with the construction of sports sites in small towns, I believe that the efforts of the Ministry of Youth and Sports will lead to a reduction in the percentage of unsporting youth. At the same time, the Ministry, as an operator of youth policy activities, remains a non-violent partner and every activity of young people in the country. Thanks to the active dialogue it has with the non-governmental sector and the flexibility of experts who are in the Ministry, initiatives are being developed and supported to build competences and additional qualifications in young people. The successful partnership with the NGO sector leads to a number of trainings, seminars, conferences, preventions of topics that excite the young generation. Young people today have increased requirements for what is happening. We should all be aware that the ministry's work is extremely good for it to combine activities in all other ministries, really be constant and meet every desire it has in the sector. Security is one of our main priorities. We work precisely in the area of raising incomes and improving the environment in which we all live. Therefore, the efforts of all of us, once again I say, must be united so that we can really work for the needs of young people, with the support of civic initiatives, volunteering, the NGO sector to sports organisations, everything that excites young people. Our main role is to continue to fight social inequality, social exclusion. The mechanism, which we started a few years ago to bring the children back to school, continues to work and continues to fight this problem. All of this would be a guarantee of better things happening. We really cannot deny the fact that there are also percentages that are not yet satisfactory, but we cannot deny that the institutions are working in this area, as I mentioned just now, the construction of gyms, of sports sites in small settlements, the renovation of educational infrastructure, which also does not only happen in large cities. This year, the Ministry of Education and Science has provided over 70 million to build new kindergartens right in small settlements. This is a guarantee that people and children would stay in small towns. There is no denying the program under art. 10 of the Gambling Act, which is related to young people's addictions. Every year, a serious budget is allocated, which is allocated to really fight this problem. I'm graduating, noting that young people are not the future of the country. Young people are now, right now, and they are the present. Then and after a while they won't be young. Let's listen to what they tell us, it always makes sense. I support the 2019 Youth Report and the efforts of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, and I am convinced that together we will continue to fight the challenges facing young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Iron. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Zhelyazkova, you obviously missed or weren't in the Chamber when I said at the beginning of my speech that I congratulate the Ministry of Youth and Sports on the efforts they have made under the Report, namely the detailed polls that have been provided to us, but in these polls we cannot agree with the results of the work of the programs themselves. The result is precisely the numbers that are in the Report, and we think are worrying, and I said it. I also said something that you didn't hear about these 58% young people who didn't play sports was said by us even before the break. Now let's make a simple account together with the hall: according to the report 46% of the young people in Bulgaria, or 7500 young people digital and speech, have left Bulgaria To these 46% add 27%, which you say you would notice, would leave the country at the first opportunity - 46 and 27 - 73%. Does this percentage satisfy you? You also say that 37% of them, for example, are young people who say they would stay in small towns. It's just that we're not staying. I would intend to do something is not my definite decision. Actions or reality can show and impose quite another. So keep these facts in mind, because they are in this report and are worrying. You admitted in your statement that yes, you see, there are percentages that make us more accurate. That is why we called with common efforts, the whole room, with the Ministry to see the problems in this sector, because not only the colleague who mentioned the demographic catastrophe and was absolutely right, but also the interests of the youth in what environment they live, then work, initially live, learn, then want to realize? These are all issues that deserve serious attention. 81,000 children are outside the scope of education and have never stepped on the threshold of the Bulgarian school. I think there is no MP in this House who does not agree with this and is not disturbed by such a fact.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u104	Your time, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u105	I'm done, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for having such a debate that it is in a positive tone. I would like to thank everyone in this House who was involved and to whom they listened, because we consider this subject really extremely important, because its scope is very serious and concerns the future of the state as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u106	Any other lines? Mr. Ali, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u107	Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mrs. Zhelyazkova! Yes, the 2019 Youth Report, honourable Members, gives generalising information on the measures applied to young people in 2019. Again, the 2019 report does not differ in terms of the 2017 and 2018 reports. The only difference is the figures and that the share of young people in Bulgaria continues to decrease in 2019. In addition, the report states that 79% of young people rely on the support of their parents and notice, most importantly, only 34% of young people point out that their means of full nutrition are quite sufficient, we are talking about means of full nutrition. Honourable Members, these are data from the Report and behind all this, unfortunately, sees economic weakness or, why not say it directly - poverty and poor economic environment in Bulgaria in the last ten years, since you have managed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u108	Third line, please, Mrs. Anastasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u109	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Zhelyazkova, as well as all the colleagues who have spoken, perhaps as Commissioners, you feel the need to express respect, to thank. Personally, I don't think we have anything to thank for. I am talking specifically about the quoted data as part of the election program of GERB party was the construction of gymnasiums in schools and how this year, on the fourth year of GERB's management, funds were allocated for the construction of 50 gymnasiums. According to the Ministry of Education and Science in the country over 800 Bulgarian schools do not have gyms. At first I thought it was about old buildings in small settlements. It turns out that in cities such as Sofia, Plovdiv and Varna there are schools without gyms and we want to create habits, regulate a third period of gymnastics, which a third hour mass in schools has nowhere to be held when it comes to the winter period, because the gymnasium is one and barely assumes compulsory gymnastics classes. If we keep talking like this, we'll grow a generation without such habits just because the base, as you know, all the rest is paid, here and there is some free municipal sports base. Many children in poor families cannot afford to pay for sports and it turns out that children's sports habits create them families with opportunities, parents with opportunities that pay for swimming pools, pay for gymnastics, pay for volleyball, participate in football clubs and so on. That's the reality. The other thing I want to replicate you about is I'm tired of hearing today about the children's embrace mechanism. It's about time, and that's when I'm done, to realize that this mechanism is left only to schools. And if we continue to do so without including social services, police and everything else, we will continue to talk to each other that there is a mechanism and it does not work properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u110	Mrs. Zhelyazkova, can you use your coat? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u111	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I'm starting backwards. Ms. Anastasova, I, firstly, am not a member of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports [[Replicator Irena Anastasova]] I am a young person in the Bulgarian Parliament and I think it is right to take attitude. As you can see from the presence of the House, the topic of youth is important to all of us. Mainly for gymnasiums, I would like to point out that there is an amount allocated by the Ministry of Youth and Sports, there is a separate amount which is granted by the State Fund of Agriculture and I am convinced, and according to data in the process of construction, besides those 50, which are under the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, at least another 50 are being prepared for construction. Yes, we promised it in 2017. This does not mean that from 2017 to 2019 nothing has been done about it. I hope you realize that with a magic wand, things don't happen. Regarding the percentage of sports and what Mr. Chenchev replicated, I would like to point out that both the municipalities and the Ministry are constantly renovating sports halls. The institutions are doing everything they can, yes, I'm not saying it's enough, no one is saying it's enough. That is why new mechanisms are involved, so dialogues are being discussed and conducted on this topic. Migration and the fact that young people are leaving the country, as I pointed out in my main speech, is not only a process in Bulgaria, it has not been a process for 10 years. This process began long before these 10 years, but freedom of movement in the European Union is a fundamental principle. This is precisely one of the fundamental rights in the European Union, the free movement, working on the labour market in different Member States. But it is important to note that 43% would still live and work in the places where they currently work. That's not a small percentage. Regarding the demographic crisis, I would like to point out that we have created the in vitro programme and it invests an enormous amount of money to support young families, so, as I said in my main speech, it is a fact that there are problems, but it is also a fact that institutions are making efforts and, as I have called on them, not to stop making efforts, but to continue developing measures and mechanisms to combat these rates to decrease. I cannot agree with Mr. Ali and that the report is no different than the previous reports. For me Report 2019 brings much more meaning than previous reports, indeed its quality in information has increased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u112	Any other speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. I shall put it to the vote: ? RESPONSIBILITY? approving the 2019 Annual Youth Report The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to art. 5, para. 1 of the Youth Act HAS DECIDED Approves the 2019 Annual Youth Report They voted 115 MPs: 76, against 30, abstention 9. The report has been adopted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR FISHING AND AQUACULTURES. Mrs. Belova, please submit the report to the Committee on Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u113	Dear Mr. Chairman! I ask first for a procedure for admission in the plenary of associate professor Dr. Galin Nikolov, Executive Director of the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture, and Ivaylo Simeonov, Director of the General Fisheries Policy at the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u114	Please vote for admission to the hall of Mr. Nikolov and Mr. Simeonov. They voted 106 MPs: 99, against 2, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. I'd like the guests to take their assigned seats.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u115	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Fisheries and Aquaculture Act No 002-01-70 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 December 2020. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 10 December 2020, discussing the quoted bill. In the meeting of the committee took part: from the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Dr. Lozana Vasileva, Deputy Minister, and Ivaylo Simeonov, Director of the General Fisheries Policy Directorate. Representatives of the Association "Balkanka" were also present. The draft and the reasons for it were presented by Deputy Minister Vasileva. The bill provides for the repeal of provisions concerning State aid in the fisheries sector. The Advisory Council for Fisheries is intended to replace the Scientific and Technical Council for Fisheries and Aquaculture as an advisory body with the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry. The relevant texts have been updated, the structure, organisation and functions have been regulated. The mayors will be required to provide information about the reservoirs of municipal property rented or a concession for aquaculture and the reservoirs free for recreational fishing. The possibility of awarding the management of fisheries resources to fishing associations in complex and significant dams is abolished, both in rivers and old riverbeds. Requirements relating to the designation and designation of a free access zone for the water sites of State ownership, defined only for recreational fisheries operated by fishing associations and a prohibition on trade in fish and other aquatic organisms caught therein, are introduced. The information on complex and significant dams used for aquaculture in network cages with significant production will be published annually on the website of the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture. A ban on the production of aquaculture is envisaged in boiling areas of hydroelectric plants in rivers and old riverbeds. The list of registers maintained by the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture shall include a register of serious infringements of ships awarded penalty points and a register of free capacity certificates issued. Legal entities authorised to fish in the waters of the Black Sea and the Danube are revised. It is proposed that a special permit for catching a species of fish and a certificate of the acquired right to use a fish resource should be issued only in the event of a valid permit for commercial fishing. In addition, the assumptions in which commercial fishing authorisations, including a specialised appliance, and special authorisations, may be suspended. Texts relating to the marking of fishing gears are provided. The texts relating to the keeping and content of the fishing logbooks, including fishing vessels up to 10 metres in length, are revised and supplemented. Prohibitions for transhipment of catches in Black Sea waters without prior notification and authorisation, for landing without prior notification and prohibition of commercial fishing with unmarked gear are introduced. The order to record information on accidental catches of marine mammals is laid down. It is proposed that fishing in Black Sea waters may be carried out with fishing vessels with a total length of less than 10 metres after a small-scale fishing permit is issued. The terms and conditions for granting authorisations and the specific requirements for making such fishing shall be laid down. With regard to recreational fishing, a requirement to hold a valid ticket for recreational fishing in Black Sea waters shall be introduced. The use of the harpoon in recreational fishing in Black Sea waters is permitted. The conditions under which persons under the age of 14 may carry out recreational fishing are laid down. Texts regulating maximum levels of catch are scheduled, depending on the location and duration of the fishing trip. The obligations of individuals who breed and grow fish and other aquatic organisms shall be reviewed. The Executive Director of the IRA will be able by order to lay down specific conditions and arrangements for catching a species of fish or other aquatic organisms for which no total allowable catch or quota has been established. The prohibitions relating to the conservation of fishery resources are supplemented. In addition to the prohibited fishing gear, means, accessories and fishing gear, the serkme, stain, ratchello and gerime are added as well as the use of invasive or non-domestic species for live baits. Prohibitions relating to the use of net fishing gear, discards and others shall be introduced. The time limits of catch bans and minimum catch sizes for certain fish and other aquatic organisms are updated. Texts relating to the installation and maintenance of an automatic identification system and the possibility of establishing administrative infringements through the monitoring system of fishing vessels shall be introduced. The provisions for on-board tracking equipment shall be revised. Provisions relating to traceability, trade and transport of fish and other aquatic organisms and the obligations of first sale centres are provided. Staff of the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture should have received training for the use of physical force, assistance, motor vehicles with special traffic regime and stop-sticks, and fishing guards with training for the application of the requirements for recreational fishing. The administrative criminal provisions are refined and supplemented. The draft was delivered an opinion by the Association with concrete proposals. In the subsequent discussion by the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria, the proposal to introduce a fishing ticket for fishing in Black Sea waters is unthinkable and that there is no control mechanism on both the limits introduced for quantities of allowable catches and the obligation to report catches. They also expressed doubts about the need to establish separate rules for small-scale fishing. In conclusion, they noted that they would refrain from supporting the Bill. From the parliamentary group of "United Patriarchs" they said they would support the Bill at first reading, but they would submit proposals to refine some of the texts between first and second votes. After the discussion, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 13 votes for the European Fisheries and Aquaculture Act, No 002-01-70, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 December 2020, proposed to the National Assembly a draft amendment and supplement to the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture, No 002-01-70, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 December 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Belova. The report from the Environment and Water Committee will present Mrs. Vasileva, President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u117	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on the Environment and Waters on the First Voting of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture, No 002-01-70, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 December 2020. At its meeting held on 16 December 2020, the Environment and Water Commission discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Fisheries and Aquaculture Act No 002-01-70 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 December 2020. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Environment and Waters Ms. Michaela Dotsova. Secretary General; from the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests Dr. Lozana Vasileva Deputy Minister, Mr. Ivaylo Simeonov, Director of the General Fisheries Policy Directorate, Associate Professor Galin Nikolov, Executive Director of the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture. On behalf of the importers, the bill and the reasons for it were presented by Deputy Minister Lozana Vasileva. She stressed that the bill regulates the public relations related to ownership, organisation, management, use and conservation of fish resources in the waters of the Republic of Bulgaria. An obligation to publish information on complex and significant dams referred to in Annex No 1 to the Water Act used for aquaculture in network cages with significant production is introduced annually on the website of the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture. Provisions governing fishing trips of more than one day duration and requiring a valid ticket for recreational fishing for the Black Sea are laid down. The specific requirements for small-scale fishing in the Black Sea are laid down by fishing vessels with a total length of less than 10 metres. New periods of bans on fish and other aquatic organisms have been introduced during their breeding period according to the specific biological characteristics of the species, as well as to the altitude. The minimum catch sizes for certain fish and other aquatic organisms have been updated, including those introduced for new species or have dropped out old. These proposals aim at protecting biodiversity and ensuring optimal conditions for the reproduction and development of populations of fish and other aquatic organisms. The justifications for the termination of the registration of persons for breeding and farming of fish for cases where the relevant permit under the Water Act has been terminated shall be completed. According to the draft, opinions were received from the Ministry of Environment and Waters and the Association "Balkanka". Ms. Dotsova presented the opinion of the Ministry of Environment and Water, which supports the bill. After the discussion and the vote held, the Committee on Environment and Waters with 11 votes in favour, without the opposition, and 7 votes in abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture, No 002-01-70, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 December 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Vasileva. The latest report is from the Commission for Monitoring Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling. Who will present the report? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u119	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I present to your attention. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Fisheries and Aquaculture Act No 002-01-70 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 December 2020. At its extraordinary meeting on 11 December 2020, the Commission for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Fisheries and Aquaculture Act No 002-01-70, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 December 2020. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Water Ivaylo Simeonov, Director of the General Fisheries Policy Directorate and Plamen Petkov. The bill was presented by Mr. Ivaylo Simeonov, who focused on the main changes. The aim of the Bill is to implement the common fisheries policy more precisely and effectively and to settle the relations related to ownership, organisation, management, use and conservation of fish resources in the waters of the Republic of Bulgaria, trade in fish and other aquatic organisms. Changes are also required in view of the need to comply with relevant European legislation. In this regard, legal definitions and terms used in fisheries and aquaculture are introduced, regulations in force are refined and regulatory gaps are removed, thereby ensuring more effective implementation of the European Union's Common Fisheries Policy. New texts governing the fishing trip of more than one day are provided for for recreational fishing in the Bill. In order to increase control and collect up-to-date information on the volume of resources used for recreational fishing in the Black Sea, the terms and conditions for its implementation shall be changed. In order to apply a uniform approach to all fishermen and increase the collection of relevant data, a requirement for a valid ticket for recreational fishing in the Black Sea shall be introduced. New requirements have been introduced regarding the designation of the water site and the definition of a free access zone to the water site. In order to carry out more effective controls on import, export and re-export of fishery products, the scope of interaction between the Fisheries and Aquaculture Executive Agency, the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency and the Customs Agency is regulated according to their competence. A new section setting out the specific requirements for small-scale fishing by fishing vessels with a total length of less than 10 metres shall be established. In relation to the reduction of the administrative burden on persons and organisations in the fisheries sector, it is provided for the possibility to submit all applications for administrative services and notifications under the Law by electronic means under the conditions and under the terms of art. 5 and 22 of the Law on Electronic Governance. As the administrative criminal provisions in force do not cover or cover in full all administrative penal formations, new ones, in line with the current economic and social conditions, are provided for. In order to prevent violations, a legal definition of repeated infringement is envisaged, as well as an increase in the amount of sanctions in these cases. During the discussion of the presented bill, the following MPs took part. Mr. Kolyo Milev disagreed with the proposed changes to introduce a fishing ticket for the Black Sea waters. Mr. Julian Angelov asked a question about the need to introduce this ticket, and Mrs. Iglika asked a question about the optimization of the control of fishing in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and the capacity of the available structures for carrying out innovation control. After the discussion and the vote held with 8 votes for the vote, 4 votes against and without abstention, the Commission for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling proposes that the National Assembly adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture, No 002-01-70, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 December. The amount of assigned
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Kostadinova. I'm opening the debate on the bill. Are there any speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u121	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Once again, we are looking at the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture. I would like to make a brief retrospective of the changes to this law in this National Assembly. For the entire period from 2017 until now... [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u122	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u123	...this law has been changed 13 times, only in 2018. .. 7. Both 2019 and 2020 have changed. I would like to say to you that much of the proposed changes we have supported from a point of view that the control in this sector should be increased and that there are opportunities for it to take place, but there have also been a number of misconceptions that have led to the fact that, on the principle, we want the diaries that are being led by fishermen to drop out, and now we want to bring them back. The reason is clear because ultimately without accountability it is impossible to do anything in this sector, and control is one of the elements that is mandatory, in terms of both European requirements. I begin by saying that there is some contradiction in the motives of the Bill. At the beginning of the reasons, it is noted that we are filling a legal gap in the legislation in the European Union and at the end of the reasons we note that we are not transposing acts of the European Union. The truth is somewhere in the middle, because the European Commission tells us that the control that is being implemented and being carried out in Bulgaria is not enough and measures need to be taken, these measures should be scheduled in a way in which it should be adequate. The parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria did not support the Bill, we abstained for the following reasons, for which we have an objection or at least it is necessary for a more serious debate to be realized between first and second reading with changes in the proposed draft of the Council of Ministers. A whole section is allocated to small-scale fishing. It shall be established within the framework of the current commercial fisheries. The importers propose that it be on an authorisation regime, indicating the criteria to be met, e.g. up to a 10-meter boat. My objections in this direction are as follows. All right, small-scale fishing, we can state that such is necessary, but any requirement that is additionally subject to this requirement, without it being related to what turnover the relevant person has, will it be, whether a legal person, a trading company, brings us into an adventure even more in the next programming period under the fishing programme. Because so defined, small-scale fishing, with these requirements, the probability that this small-scale fishing will receive support in the next programming period is minimal. The analogy that I do and in which I suppose I am right is from the Rural Development Programme, where the definition of a................................................................................................ is related to certain criteria,............................................................................................................................................... This is missing here, and clasping in numbers up to 10 meters, so two networks and so on, are requirements that will accordingly prevent precisely those fishermen who are in this group from applying and being able to improve their activities. For the first time, the requirement for recreational fishing in the Black Sea to also be subject to registration with the additional payment of a fee or a fishing ticket is introduced. Until now, this has not happened, and not in all countries of the European Union there are fishing tickets. We object to this happening for the simple reason that this fishing really concerns people who complement their income in part by catching in the Black Sea. We charge them with a fee, and during the discussion in the Commission it was almost said that if we do not provide them with fishing tickets, we cannot register them, nor can we determine what quantity is caught in the Black Sea. It seems to me that there are other ways besides a fishing ticket to resolve this issue. We also raised the question: the IRA with the changes that are being proposed, is there capacity, opportunities, including financial control in this area? Because the problem of fisheries and aquaculture is effective control, and therefore the Executive Agency, which is responsible, must have the opportunity to carry them out with appointed people, with sufficient financial resources. Again, during the Commission it was said that this bill was discussed with a wide range of organisations. Personally, I have received objections from the Hunting-Fishing Union, claiming that the amendments to the Law create legal chaos. What's this about? According to the requirements of the Law, the management of water sites is provided to associations. These associations shall be paid a fishing ticket and, moreover, the members of the associations shall take care of the establishment they manage. Suddenly there is the possibility in the Bill that there is, or is not understood, the way in which it is written in the Law that there may also be free-access objects, i.e. fishermen who are not members of the associations, to have free access to the fishing of the internal sites. But if the association manages an object, takes care and in its part we have free fishing, it changes things significantly. So, signed in the way it was proposed in the Bill, it will create problems precisely for those associations that invest especially in inland waters. These are our claims in short, but the most important ones in terms of the Fisheries and Aquaculture Act, and I hope it is the last change in this Parliament, because, believe me, a change on change and a trial-mistake is creating even greater chaos in the sector, rather than creating prerequisites for its stability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. - What's the line? I don't see anyone who wants to. Any other speeches? Mr. Valkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! According to the Law amending and supplementing the Fisheries and Aquaculture Act, a number of public consultations were made, some serious discussions were held one month of September, the other month of October and November, which examined all proposals, not only submitted by the Fisheries Agency, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, but also those submitted by various organisations that are related to the fisheries sector. Due to the very great public interest, the Law has slowed down a bit, but I think we have opportunities in this National Assembly to accept it, as there are very serious and important proposals in it, one of which is the creation of a separate section. We have just heard some of the arguments with which the colleague expressed some shortcomings in her opinion in the creation of this section, but I would say that this is an extremely good breakthrough, because we have long wanted to introduce this section, which is small-scale fishing, although the specific conditions are, I would say, quite large or heavy and they are very close to the other fishing that has been introduced. In this regard, perhaps between first and second reading proposals will be made by our group, as well as another proposal, which is related to the so-called ticket for recreational fishing in the Black Sea. Since there have been a lot of discussions on this subject, we also consider between first and second reading to provoke a review of this proposal in particular. One of the proposals I will address is basically the action plan. This action plan is linked to the control carried out in the Black Sea Fisheries Sector. This control is linked, on the one hand, to the introduction of the identification systems, the so-called AIS and, on the other hand, to the vessel monitoring and tracking systems in which it becomes clear in what waters and how close to the coast the ship was staying, at what speed it was driving, whether it was launching a trawl and so on. These are things that are very important, and with which the ships will be equipped with the corresponding instruments, those that are respectively over 12 and 15 m in length. But there really is another issue here that is related to the Fisheries Agency on Human and Financial Resources for the introduction of these proposals, whether they can be made within the relevant deadline and whether there is such an opportunity. Therefore, between first and second readings in the Commission review, I believe that answers should be given to this question. I also welcome the possibility of electronic data submission, all possible data, as made as a proposal in this bill, and the possibility of electronic submission of applications. I propose to the MPs to support the Bill in this form, and the proposals we intend to make between first and second readings to make the Bill really active. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u126	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. Are there lines? Mr. Kanev, do you have a line or a statement? We are waiting for Mr. Kanev to tell us exactly what the reply, statement or procedure wants. Line up, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u127	Colleagues, I'll be very brief. It is imperative between first and second reading that we fix this nonsense that is offered for tickets for fishing in the Black Sea. My request is, that we will strongly support it, if you do not submit it, we will bring it in basically, who comes into power, starts experimenting with this law. You remember 2010 what requirements were imposed in amendments again in this law "It was the wish of every fishing vessel, including everyone up to 10 meters, to have a cash register." You remember this story of Simeon Djankov. You remember the same story with the freezers you should have, and the coolers in each boat, provided they have the right to go for only two nautical miles into the sea and until they return to the shore it, the fish, is still moving. My request is: let's not do another stupid thing to drive every child or every single person who has stood with one rod on the shore to catch five stakes or ten blacks to register. What's more, I don't see how the administration can administer all this?! That's absurd. My request is: let's unite our efforts to make this go away. Otherwise, for the new fishing model, the so-called small fishing, we are categorically about the fishing, we will support it, but please, this thing needs to be removed.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u128	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Is there another line? I don't see anyone who wants to. Any other speeches? Mr. Apostolov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u129	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Let Mr. Kanev, the person whom I deeply respect, be reminded only that the proposals for dropping the diaries were an initiative and supported by their parliamentary group. So they're one of the triggers for these samples and errors. Apart from that, this law, yes, has indeed been changed several times within this National Assembly. These were changes that were necessary and which were why we could not unite, colleagues. That's why we have to go in from change to change. Because when we have spoken wisely and have conducted sensible dialogues and policies, because of political addictions and politics, we have not come to the right ideas. But life itself and the fisheries communities themselves want to have their own rules, and that is why, at the time of this broad public discussion, they produced many of the ideas that have been implemented in this law. Mrs. Bachvarova, just to tell you that recreational fishing is not an activity that should bear income. That is, people who are engaged in recreational fishing, both under the current law and priors, have no right to sell this catch at all. So this passage from your statement that fishing is about supplementing their income is absolutely not applicable because recreational fishing is a hobby and, as I said, it does not bring income and the fish you caught up to 5 kg, you have no right to sell it. And this ticket, which amateur anglers get it, it's just for reporting statistical activity. Because it is precisely because we have more than 230 thousand fishermen registered, if we subtract the data from the statistics for which the European Commission has very well its information, statistical research and mathematical models, it may be that recreational fishing makes more catch than all of our business fisheries. That is why we find ourselves in a need to make and create a change, because in order to make the most of these funds provided for in the next programming period, people, of course, want to sit on real data and real data in Bulgaria is not submitted. So what if you have to pay 25 leva?! Mr. Kanev, once again I appeal to you and ask colleagues from GERB not to be misled, not to be pressured by the opposition or by other experts. For me, this ticket must exist because more than two thirds of amateur fishermen who have tickets have tickets to the inland water basins, which means this ticket is paid anyway. And by going from an inland water pool to sea, to sea fishing, the lover can use the same ticket, and vice versa. I guarantee you that there is not such an amateur fisherman who only goes on sea fishing, or these are extremely few people. Because when we go fishing for sea fishing, even if we take a Burgas, going fishing for sea fishing, the next day he can move to an indoor pool, what were the lakes called around...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u130	Vaja, Mandra and so on.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u131	Yeah, the three largest lakes. And today he may be at sea, and when he goes to the indoor pool he must have a fishing ticket. So I call on colleagues from GERB: do not bend, because there are indications that this fishing ticket can be removed. This is a statistical form, and we'll lose a lot more money than if we remove the fishing ticket.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u132	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. Are there lines? Mrs. Bachvarova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u133	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Apostolov, I cannot agree with your speech for the following reasons. Maybe you didn't listen carefully to what I was saying. Firstly, it is true that recreational fishing is a fishing that satisfies, above all, personal needs, but this is part of the family's available income. So, using or searching, as they say, under the ox calf in this definition, you seem to have achieved nothing. In terms of maritime fishing.. means, we will do statistics against 25 BGN. I don't know the stats of any of you asking for money for that you'll be counted or how much you catch. If it is statistics, the state will find the necessary way to make this statistics how many these anglers are in the Black Sea and what quantities they produce accordingly. You still misunderstand me. Thirteen times, now for the fourteenth time the Law is changed. I'd like to draw your attention to the fishing logbooks. This National Assembly canceled the fishing logbooks that it was extremely difficult to fill in. Well, we're returning them now. Where you went I cannot understand, but basically, we are talking about the mandate of this National Assembly, about the changes, some of which have returned to baseline, because the European Commission also disagrees with such full liberalisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u134	Thank you. Another line? Yeah, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, a very brief line. Mr. Apostolov, if the partial impact assessment on which the opinion of the Administration of the Council of Ministers on 22 July made remarks................... those which Professor Bachvarova said to you, which you also found if we had an impact assessment, which we should have by today...... to date...... these problems would not be present today. There is no extremely important work done and therefore we cannot support this bill at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u136	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Is there anyone who wants a third line? I can't see. Will you use a hole, Mr. Apostolov? No. Any other speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture, No 002-01-70, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 December 2020. They voted 132 MPs: 88, none, abstention 44. The bill was passed in the first vote. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO RECOGNIZE THE COURT OF AUDITORS THE PROCEDURE OF THE COURT OF AUDITORS FOR COMPLIANCE OF PUBLIC PROCEEDINGS DECEMBER 31, 2020 Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. Mrs. Ilieva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Budget and Finance on the Draft Decision on the Award of the Court of Auditors, carrying out an audit of compliance of public contracts awarded to the Authority in the period 1 January 2016. On 25 November 2020, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2016/849 [2] on the conclusion of a Protocol on financial and technical cooperation between the European Economic Community and the Kingdom of Norway concerning the implementation of the Agreement between the European Economic Community, the European Economic Community and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation's association with the implementation, application and development of the Schengen acquis on the Swiss Confederation's association with the implementation, application and development of the Schengen acquis on the Swiss Confederation's association with the implementation, application and development of the Schengen acquis on the Swiss Confederation's association with the At a meeting held on 2 December 2020, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that draft decision. The meeting was attended by Toshko Todorov, Vice-President of the Court of Auditors. In the reasons for the draft decision, the importers point out that, in response to a question to the MPs in the framework of a parliamentary control procedure on 3 November 2020, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works provided information on public procurements carried out by It is clear from the information that the company is currently a contractor at the same time as seven contracts. Each of these contracts has a serious volume of activity and obligations and its implementation implies a corresponding technical and human resource. According to importers, this raises a number of important and legitimate questions. Does the company have the necessary capacity, technical and human resources, what part of it is available at the conclusion of another contract? How does the company carry out the commitments and use subcontractors? Does he use third parties, including a civil contract, for execution? What does the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works justify an impressive number of contracts with Contractors, including framework agreements? According to the importers, it is practical to refuse the answers to these and similar questions by reference to the Public Information Access Act. The importers take the view that the government itself defines road construction as a major sector in its work, with an almost continuous flow of information on large projects and for directing a large public resource. However, the assignment of almost all significant road-building projects carried out by the Bulgarian government to one company, whether state-owned, is protected only on justification of the costs, the legality of the procedures and the security of the implementation. The proposed audit aims to verify whether the award requirements are met and whether the implementation of these significant public contracts is secured. After the discussion of the Committee on Budget and Finance with 16 votes for........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Project! DECISION on the award to the Court of Auditors of an audit for compliance with the performance of public contracts awarded to the Authority in the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2020 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 7, para. 1 of the Law on the Court of Auditors HAS DECIDED 1. Instructs the Court of Auditors to include in the scope of the examination all contracts for the period, including contracts awarded under the conditions of the exceptions applicable to public contracting entities, under Article 31 of the audit, to include all contracts for the period, including those awarded under the conditions of the exceptions applicable to public contracting entities, under art. 14 of the Public Procurement Act. 2. The audit period shall be until 31 March 2021. 3. The deadline for submission to the National Assembly of the final report of the Court of Auditors shall be 30 April 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Ilieva. Statements? Here you are, Mr. Gechev. The opinion of an importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u139	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In this case, we are made easier because in the Budget Committee we have reached a consensus and we have the support of representatives of all political forces. I am sure that it will also be supported in plenary, as our reasons for such a draft decision of the National Assembly are justified by concrete arguments. Dear colleagues, we are concerned about the fact that the company is a state-owned company, but the problem is that it is currently carrying out seven contracts for nearly 4 billion. BGN, provided that this state firm, according to us, and according to experts, does not have the capacity to carry out so many contracts that require both equipment and personnel and so on. We ask the following questions: have preliminary assessment been made and have the requirements of the choice of Automamistrails and Executive Agency been met? Secondly, does the company have the necessary capacity? Technical and human resources? Third, how does the company fulfil the commitments and use subcontractors companies, legal entities? Accordingly, the next question: does he hire individuals under a civil contract for lack of personnel? What does the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works justify an impressive number of contracts with Contractors, including framework agreements? Until now, the Auto-Magistrals-EAD has refused to provide more clarity with regard to the prices, performance and absorption of the funds allocated. Given that the implementation of these road construction programmes is one of the prides of the ruling majority, we want a professional audit to be carried out by the Court of Auditors to show whether the Public Procurement Act is respected, whether public interests are protected in the conclusion of contracts with subcontractors, both natural and legal persons, as I repeat, it is about 4 billion. lv. Public resources. In this regard, Mr President, we propose a draft decision: The Court of Auditors is empowered to carry out an audit of compliance with the public procurement awarded to the Authority in the period 1 January 2016. 31 December 2020. The scope of the verification shall include all contracts for the period, including those awarded under the conditions of the exceptions applicable to public contracting entities, under art. 14 of the Public Procurement Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-16.u140	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Statements on the Solution Project? I see it has been adopted unanimously by the Commission. I don't see anyone who wants to make speeches. I'm closing the debate. I shall put it to the vote: Project! DECISION on the award to the Court of Auditors of an audit for compliance with the performance of public contracts awarded to the Authority in the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2020 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 7, para. 1 of the Law on the Court of Auditors HAS DECIDED 1. Instructs the Court of Auditors to include in the scope of the examination all contracts for the period, including contracts awarded under the conditions of the exceptions applicable to public contracting entities, under Article 31 of the audit, to include all contracts for the period, including those awarded under the conditions of the exceptions applicable to public contracting entities, under art. 14 of the Public Procurement Act. 2. The audit period shall be until 31 March 2021. 3. The deadline for submission to the National Assembly of the final report of the Court of Auditors shall be 30 April 2021. 125 MPs voted: 125, no opposition and no abstentions. The decision's been made. Due to the exhaustion of the agenda, I am adjourned. The next meeting is tomorrow at 9:00 p.m. in the same room. [[PHONE RINGING]]
