ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u1	There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, I will present to your attention a Project for the National Assembly's Work Programme for February 26, 2020. "1." First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Public Order in the conduct of sporting events. Importers are Slavcho Atanasov, Manoil Manev and Stefan Apostolov on 7 February 2020. 2. First vote on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Environmental Protection. Importers are Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs on 14 February 2020. 3. First vote on the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology Bill. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 8 January 2020. 4. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection and Development of Culture. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 28 January 2020. 5. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Medical Institutions. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 8 January 2020. Point 1 for Thursday, 27 February 2020 6. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Law on Structure of the Area. Importers: Spas Panchev on 23 January 2020; Julian Angelov and a group of MPs on 14 February 2020. Point 2 for Thursday, 27 February 2020 7. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the European Structural and Investment Funds Management Act. Importers are Ivelina Vassileva and Evgenia Angelova on 12 February 2020. Point 3 for Thursday, 27 February 2020 8. Parliamentary control. Please, voting mode. They voted 189 MPs: 135 against 1, abstention 53. The motion is accepted. Honourable Members, two proposals were received on the basis of art. 53, para. 3. The first is from the MPs Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: "Dear Madam President, the actions and words of the government next week on the issue of the range of roads for which a wine charge is collected by residents of specific settlements is the expected peak of an absurd and chaos that lasts for more than two years. We have no doubt about the importance of the matter and we insist on the basis of art. 113 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to hold a hearing of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov on the list of Republican roads for which fees for use of the road infrastructure are collected. On the basis of art. 53, para. 3 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly propose that the hearing be included as the first item in the Program for the Work of the National Assembly on the plenary week 26. You have two minutes to make your reasoned request, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! The problem we're talking about is from last week. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u3	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u4	The introduction of the tol system, the scope of the roads that fall under charge with wine charges, and to this day are up-to-date, even more powerful. You are aware of the tensions in the last few months in the settlements around Sofia and in other settlements in the country. The residents have gone out to protest, but, unfortunately, to this day neither the decision of the Council of Ministers, signed by Mr. Borisov, has been revoked. [[noise and lines]] ...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u5	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u6	...or the decision of the government, signed by Mr. Borisov, is updated by subtracting the relevant sections. In other words, the lie that was told last year and January continues to work. People don't know what they're supposed to do but watch on TV. Someone in charge can come out and explain to them. We are sure that there is no other person in the country who can answer these questions Therefore, we, on the basis of art. 53, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure we propose that the Bulgarian Prime Minister come to the Chamber and explain to the Bulgarian society, the Bulgarian citizens, the Bulgarian carriers to those who will pass through Bulgaria, by what rules, what criteria should they pay, who should pay it and how they should pay it. Because from yesterday it becomes clear that even those devices that carriers need to use are gone and will have to fill out road maps, which takes each 7 to 8 minutes to complete, and the carriers fill in 5 to 6 a day. In other words, the difficulty and chaos that are coming on 1 March related to the introduction of the system are complete and we really insist that the Prime Minister come to the plenary and explain what is happening. [[Noise and lines.]] We fully understand that today he is not in Bulgaria...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u7	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u8	...and therefore, Madam President, we propose that as a point first not to be for today, but to be for tomorrow, when the Prime Minister will hopefully be in his country to come to the National Assembly, to explain the problem posed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u9	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the MPs Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, which Mr Svilenski has just motivated tomorrow this proposal to enter into the National Assembly's Work Programme as the first item for Thursday. Vote 202 MPs: 90 against 67 abstention 45. The offer is not accepted. It's a re-vote. Mr. Popov, come in for a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u10	Thank you, Madam President. There was a problem with the system at the beginning and I'm asking for a re-voting procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u11	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Please re-vote the proposal of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. Vote 205 MPs: 105 against 76 abstentions 24. The motion is accepted. We move on to the next proposal: on the basis of art. 113 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly we are submitting a proposal for a hearing to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Ms. Petya Avramova regarding the forthcoming charging of road vehicles with a common technically permissible maximum mass of 3,5 tonnes with a fee under Art. 10, para. 1, t. 2 of the Roads Act. According to § 19a of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Roads Act of 1 March 2020, the application of the charge with distance charge is to be initiated. 110b, para. 3 of the Roads Act. This proposal is conditional on the need to achieve greater clarity on how the system works, its readiness to start that date and clarify the scope of the paid road network, as well as the provision of all relevant information related to the issues posed by the introduction of toll. On the basis of art. 53, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure suggest that the hearing of Minister Avramova should be included as a point in the Program for the Work of the National Assembly for the plenary week 26 Mr. Nenkov, come in for two minutes and tell us what day you want Mrs. Avramova to be here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, we are undoubtedly at a step in the way of charging for the use of Republican infrastructure on 1 March. Of course, you know that it took very serious efforts both on the part of Parliament and on the part of the executive power. In view of all the difficulties we have been through in recent years, the creation of this electronic charging system for heavy goods vehicles above 3,5 tonnes should ultimately be launched on 1 March and with the electronic winery system already in place to become one of the most modern road charging systems in all of Europe. I dare say that's true. Of course, there is no way to expect that the creation of such an electronic system, such a reform, will certainly not lead, on the one hand, perhaps to technical problems, on the other hand, to problems relating to a sufficiently good balance between all the stakeholders and users of this network, so that, on the one hand, the necessary conditions for maximum more revenue can be created so that we can maintain the standard to which we strive and, on the other hand, that this is not at the expense of the users of the network, so that it really is not at the expense of them. In this regard, because a short time ago the Prime Minister was accepted to be heard under art. 113 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, our proposal is to call and hear Minister Avramova as she is directly responsible for the introduction of this electronic system. Our proposal, Madam President, will then be slightly different: I request that Mrs Avramova be present in the first item of the agenda for tomorrow's programme, besides the Prime Minister. I also complete our project for a decision: to invite the Chairman of the Road Infrastructure Agency and Mr. Georgi Terziyski, as well as the Director of the Directorate of National Toll Management.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. You're welcome for reverse procedure, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u14	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I take the floor for a reverse procedure. Firstly, I thank all my fellow Members who supported the proposal that the Prime Minister come to the Chamber tomorrow and be heard. This is really how the Bulgarian Parliament should work. I expected the proposal of colleagues for Minister Avramova to be withdrawn. Just to let you know, honourable Members, Mrs Avramova, at least three or four times of this tribune has been at such a hearing and, unfortunately, the result is none. It's right to be the Prime Minister. I see no reason for you to call the entire Road Infrastructure Agency, as they can neither take any attitude nor should they take a stand here in plenary. Their job is to implement political decisions as the parliament and the Bulgarian government take them. I understand that you are trying to get at one point and Minister Avramova and the Prime Minister. Firstly, I think this is offensive to him as a prime minister who can quite rightly come here and defend the position of both the government and the ruling majority. There is no need for Mrs. Avramova, who, again, is heard three or four times on the subject, every Friday she is in parliamentary control, every Friday she is asked questions about the state of the road and, unfortunately, to this day none of us have found answers. My suggestion is that you do not support Mr. Nenkov's proposal for a hearing with Mrs. Avramova and the entire Board of Directors of the Road Infrastructure Agency. Only the Prime Minister can be heard, as we have agreed. Then, if you already accept as point two to be Mrs. Avramova, because the other one will be really... I can't find the word. Mrs. Avramova to speak before the Prime Minister?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. There is such a procedure in which we can listen to several ministers, but I will put to the vote Mr. Nenkov's proposal and the House will decide, as it has decided for the hearing of the Prime Minister. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, I do not see a problem, but in order for Bulgarian citizens to get full information, let us give the House the opportunity to decide. I put to the vote Mr. Nenkov's proposal for a hearing of Minister Avramova at point one, and the proposed persons from the Road Infrastructure Agency. They voted 199 MPs: 135, against 59, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Bills and draft decisions entered into force from 19 February 2020 to 25 February 2020: Bill amending and supplementing the Waste Management Act. Importers are Manol Genov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Environment and Water is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on State Agency of Intelligence. Importers are Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Committee for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act is the lead. A bill to supplement the Waste Management Act. Importers are Ivelina Vassileva and a group of MPs. The Committee on Environment and Water is the lead. A bill to amend and supplement the Law on Radio and Television. Importers are Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Culture and Media is the lead. Messages: Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria in implementation of art. 65, para. 1 of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that by order he has authorised the dispatch and use of an aircraft with crew of military personnel from the Air Force for the implementation of special flights for air transport for the needs of the Ministry of Defence and Air Forces by route from Sofia Airport to Poznan Airport........................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The notification was received on 21 February 2020 with entry No 003-09-20 and was submitted to the Defence Commission. In the performance of art. 65, para. 1 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that on the basis of art. 63, p. 1 of the same law The Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria has adopted a decision No 122 authorising the participation of soldiers from the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in the operation of the stabilizing forces of NATO in Kosovo and amending and repealing the decisions of the Council of Ministers. By increasing the contingent of the Republic of Bulgaria with air traffic controller, air force soldiers will be given the opportunity to gain additional practical experience from the work in the international environment, which will contribute to the implementation of the commitment to provide personnel to strengthen the Joint Forces of the NATO Air Component. The provisions of the Law on the Decision of the Council of Ministers were also notified to the President of the Republic of Bulgaria. The notification of the Decision annexed to it received on 24 February 2020 with entry No 002-00-6 and was made available to the Defence Committee. A declaration on behalf of a group. Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u16	Madam President, honourable Members! Yesterday, the National Statistical Institute published a press release. This title is incorrect because the data are submitted by the Customs Agency and respectively by the Bulgarian government, so we are witnessing a situation where the National Statistical Institute actually recognises false data from the government. Honourable Members, I quote three parts of the press release that we will comment on: regarding the new Union customs legislation from January 2019, importers of certain goods, including goods, have submitted two types of customs declarations......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The difference in the time of submission of the two declarations is over a month, with the NSI using only the final data. This means that imports made, for example, at the end of May, will be taken into account statistically definitively in July after one month. For statistics every month the NSI downloads data from the Information System of the Customs Agency. End quote. This is where we start with the weirdness. In the previous sentence, the National Statistical Institute convinces us that it only works with final data? It is world-renowned that monthly data are preliminary. Well, how do previous and current published preliminary data in dozens of tables turn out to be illegal or some arithmetic exercises for first graders? All over the world is working with preliminary data and assessments, but now suddenly with a non-political one to call it a friendly strong government partition our NSI introduces a new world fashion in statistics. No preliminary and forecast data and assessments, only 10 years after the processing of the data. Someone is trying to explain to me that, as with wine, the more the data matures, the more reliable they become. The truth is that at the end of March and the beginning of April, not in October, as promised by the National Statistical Institute, around the world people publish their final data even in paper form. And otherwise the common practice, including so far in our country, is to publish preliminary data after each quarter. And as a rule, the deviations of the final data from the preliminary data should be minimally For example, it would be acceptable if the preliminary growth data were 3.5% and after adjustments in the calculations proved to be 3,2% or 3,4%. But the difference between 3.5%, even between 3.3% and 0.8% is an absolute statistical tragedy. This is a factual error over 4 times or 40%. This, fellow Members, is not statistics! It's a national lottery! This is rubbing coupons or a wheel of luck! Further, I quote: due to the gap in the NSI schedule, the download is carried out within 28 days after the end of the period, pay attention to that of the Customs Agency, these arrays do not contain the data from the additional declarations. Data for all quarters shall be revised only after the end of the year. This is also the reason for the differences in imports in quarterly GDP statistics. This paragraph introduces us to a new sphere of the antilogism of despair. First, we are told in a straight text that the schedules of the NSI and the Customs Agency disagree. The exact expression should have been different because they were supposed to be in sync so far, and now, you see, some European directives have unsynchronized them. In fact, the logical mystery is: how have they unsynchronized the data, and the whole year, quarter by quarter, the Ministry of Finance and the Government publish data from NSI and BNB, making us happy with similar data on growth and other macroeconomic cotton?! Have you heard from them that these are preliminary and uncertain data? You didn't! It appears from the above paragraph of the NSI that, in the case of a newly introduced practice from two declarations, the additional declaration differs almost substantially from the first. What about the European Union introducing this second declaration to make the data more precise? Only in the absence of at least 4 billion. lv. It turns out that in your opinion they go two to one in value and that always the second is half the value of the first. This is ridiculous! The difference wouldn't be so dramatic, because those who signed the second, reduced declaration, with such huge differences, should be arrested immediately. Quoting: The figures for all quarters are revised only after the end of the year. This is also the reason for the differences in imports in the quarterly GDP statistics. Here the mysticism of this reasoning literally transcends any imagination, because according to the state institutions the second declaration is delayed, I quote, 28 days. Note the precision of not 25 days, not 29 days, not one month, precise 28 days! But then the question arises: what is the idea for example to receive the latest additional declarations on April 29th, that is, after the first quarter and to mature for re-evaluation on the first quarter of January. March only after the New Year's holidays? Eurostat is likely to announce a cash prize to whoever first finds a solution to this rather tied task. In addition, since quarterly data has already been declared a tool for preparing for arithmetic, because we are told that they are unreliable, what is the point of publishing them? Because from the above lines it turns out that they carry disinformation rather than information. It is clear to everyone that the Ministry of Finance and the Government have put and pressure on the independent institutions, which should rely on not only the subjects of our national economy, but also our partners from the European Union, the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and so on. Be assured that their reaction will be acute and with long-term consequences. Besides, my fellow Members, how come no one noticed there was no fuel imports and the refinery works? A miracle of miracles! There are no imports of fuels, and in Russian statistics there are exports of oil to Bulgaria, which disappears, tankers sink somewhere along the way to Bulgaria. If it wasn't for this fuel imports, the roads would be clear and there wouldn't be any movement. Have you noticed any such thing? The carriers are running, the refinery is running full steam, the cars are moving, the data is gone? Why? To lie, the growth is great, we are excellent, Germany and France envy us!? They'll envy you very well now that they see this data. In addition, first, since it is the fault of the Customs Agency, respectively of the Ministry of Finance, why are you now pushing the National Statistical Institute into the spotlight? Why didn't the government come out to say that it hid data and didn't submit data to the National Statistical Institute, because it is working on imports entirely according to customs data, and the analytical unit of the Bulgarian National Bank is working on customs data that went through the National Statistical Institute? Secondly, what is more, with this text, the government is blaming the new EU regulations. Notice what you start with: we provide you with the wrong data. Why? Well, Europe makes us have a second declaration on the same import. But Europe doesn't make you submit false data. The second declaration shall be supplementary to the first and such discrepancies shall not occur. And in conclusion, honourable Members, after the National Statistical Institute has applied and announced that there is asynchronousness between the Customs Agency and the National Statistical Institute, after this tragedy we are telling you, however, that the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance should resign! Have a nice day. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Gechev. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u18	Dear colleagues, Mr. Chairman! The United patriots propose, that is to say, they submit a proposal on the basis of art. 48, para. Two next week... [[Reply: higher!]] Higher?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u19	A little louder.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u20	We offer on the basis of the Rules of Procedure Art. 48, para. 2, next week the first session on Wednesday starts at 1300 hours, as Tuesday is Bulgaria's biggest day. Many of the colleagues will be on the other side of Bulgaria, will be busy with this holiday. So our proposal is in line with the practice from the past National Assembly. That's our offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u21	Thank you, Mr. Kasabov. Is there a reverse procedure? I can't see. I shall put your proposal to the vote on the basis of art. 48, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, the meeting next week on 4 March 2020, shall begin at 1300 hours. They voted 168 MPs, 81, 47, abstention 40. The offer is not accepted. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm asking for a re-voting procedure. There is a resonant in what the colleagues from the United Patriarchs suggested. I ask the same to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. I'm going to rethink the proposal I've made. They voted 177 MPs: for 85, against 56, abstention 36. The offer is not accepted. Any other procedural proposals, declarations? Please come in for an affidavit. We cannot move on to the voted agenda yet.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, unfortunately, we have witnessed once again today the attempt of colleagues on the left side of the House to manipulate society and Bulgarian citizens. Unfortunately, yesterday's Customs Agency and the National Statistical Institute came up with an official declaration saying that the experts are adamant that the data are not manipulated, there are no manipulations in relation to the gross domestic product, exports and imports of Bulgaria. For me today once again tried to attack with false data and suggestions Bulgaria's entry into the Eurozone. We must break up with this desire once and for all and declare responsibly that Bulgaria's path is in the Eurozone when Bulgaria is ready accordingly, but these suggestions that there are manipulations in the gross domestic product should not be tolerated. Because colleagues who came out of the National Assembly's stand today to declare such a thing and accuse these institutions of lying or manipulation, on 5 March, when official statistics will come out, I hope they will come out and make it official from the National Assembly's stand that they have tried to manipulate society, and this is the colleague who spoke before me. We shouldn't, fellow Members, give publicity to false news, and I thought that the National Assembly couldn't be such a conductor. We must clearly state and take account of the growth of the Bulgarian economy, the Bulgarian incomes and the Bulgarian exports. Therefore, on 5 March, when the final data comes out, once again I urge you, colleagues, to read what the experts of the Customs Agency said yesterday and the National Statistical Institute on import information. Clearly and categorically, colleagues, from the platform of the National Assembly, I declare that any such relationship can only harm Bulgaria, the Bulgarian business, the Bulgarian citizens, and I will take it as ininformation rather than maliciousness on the part of the colleagues who export this information. I'm really afraid if there's such maliciousness, but I hope it's out of the blue. I will therefore call on my fellow Members to really read the information that was officially released yesterday on the website of the National Statistical Institute and the Customs Agency. Because it would be very irresponsible if a Member from the National Assembly, a Member of the National Assembly, comes out and manipulates, and insinuates from the stands of the National Assembly things that would prevent Bulgaria, the Bulgarian business and the Bulgarian citizens in any direction of development, including raising incomes, including reporting real statistics on the growth of gross domestic product. Because, colleagues, perhaps there is a note of jealousy for the record low unemployment, which is reported in Bulgaria in a period of 20 years, there has not been such low unemployment; the moderate rate of growth of the gross domestic product is five years in a row; the record low debt of the Bulgarian state compared to the gross domestic product and also as a measure. Therefore, I think, colleagues, that in the National Assembly we should have found consensus and strive to speed it up, because it would only speed up the growth of the pensions and incomes of the Bulgarian citizens, and any such declarations on behalf of a group that suggest the opposite are malicious. Therefore, colleague, I am glad that at least in the media for several days in a row you are trying to raise this topic, obviously the media colleagues do not hug it much, because they can read and because they rely on real information, and do not get excited, how to say, in the public domain, this media noise that the purpose is. But I say again, on 5 March, as the National Statistical Institute said, when the official preliminary data comes out, I hope you will come out and apologize from this tribune of Bulgarian citizens and colleagues in the Chamber. And I will only read one more time the press release what the two agencies say: "In relation to the new Union customs legislation of January 2020, importers of certain stock commodities, including commodities, are submitting two types of customs declarations and additional. The difference in time of submission of the two declarations is over a month and sometimes more, and the National Statistical Institute uses only definitive data. This means that imports made, for example, at the end of May, will be reported statistically definitively in July. And I continue from the same message: "Danny for all quarters are revised only after the end of the year. This is also the reason for the difference in imports in quarterly statistics on gross domestic product and experts are adamant that data is not manipulated and information is used in good faith. According to the calendar, colleagues, the National Statistical Institute for the distribution of statistical research results on 5 March will publish data on gross domestic product. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Any other procedures, affidavits? I really can't see this time. We move on to item one of the agenda: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR PROVIDING THE PUBLIC SOCIETY IN THE INTERVENTATION OF SPORTS. The first report is from the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. Who will present the report? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u26	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I'm presenting. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Public Order in Sports Events, No 054-01-9, submitted by the National Representative Slavcho Stoev Atanasov and a group of MPs on 7 February 2020. At its meeting held on 19 February 2020, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order examined and discussed the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Protection of Public Orders in Sports Events, No 054-01-9, submitted by the MPs Slavcho Stoev Atanasov, Manoil Manev and Stefan Apostolov on 7 February 2020. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Youth and Sports: Mr. Asen Markov The Ministry of Interior attended: Chief Inspector Plamen Kolev On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the National Representative Manoil Manev. In his statement, he noted that the proposed amendments to the Bill were intended to complement the requirements for the protection of public policy and ensure safety in the conduct of sports events in stadiums through legal regulation to take adequate measures. These new requirements are borrowed by UEFA in order to issue a safety certificate for international meetings. The main focus of the bill is the supplement of the requirements to the Annex under art. 7b, para. 1 of the Law. It is intended that, when setting up seats for viewers, seats and stands, they are firmly fixed and made of materials to ensure their permanent use, to provide access to the stadiums for disabled persons and their attendants, requirements for illumination, sound and video surveillance, the construction of an operational coordination centre equipped with technical means for viewing the stadium and continuous communication with persons responsible for emergency, fire safety and emergency medical care. In addition, it is provided for the provision of video surveillance in strict provision of crossing mode, with a clear indication of the routes for access to the stadium, entrances and exits and all common areas of the stadium. The Bill also regulates the powers of the district governors. The establishment of a regional commission to assess compliance with the requirements of the Annex to art. 7b, para. 1. Only when it is found that all the requirements of the Regional Commission are met, then the Regional Governor shall issue an act authorising the use of the stadium. Failure to comply with the safety and security requirements of stadiums is supported by a sanction under art. 45 of the Law. The proposed amendments and additions aim to ensure adequate protection of public policy and security in sporting events. In conclusion, on behalf of importers, it was underlined that the following criteria to art. 7b, para. 1 will refer to the stadiums where international football meetings are held under the auspices of the Union of European Football Associations, which will be explicitly reflected between the first and second votes of the Bill. The Commission also received an opinion from the Ministry of Youth and Sports and the Ministry of Interior. The opinions generally support the submitted bill and the criteria laid down are in line with UEFA's requirements for international matches and should apply to stadiums where international sports meetings are to be held. The criteria should be refined with the participation of the Bulgarian Football Union and the authorities of the Ministry of Interior to achieve the most effective protection of security in the event of sports events. On the basis of the discussion held, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 9 votes in favour, without...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u27	Thank you, dear Mrs. Petrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u28	There's been a mistake.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u29	All right, explain the error, and we're moving on to the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports Report. You're welcome to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u30	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! On 7 February 2020, Mr. Slavcho Stoev Atanasov, Mr. Manoil Minchev Manev and Mr. Stefan Apostolov discussed the Draft for amendment and supplement of the Law on the Protection of Public Order in Sports Events, No 054-01-9, submitted by the MPs Slavcho Stoev Atanasov, Mr. Manoil Minchev Manev and Mr. Stefan Apostolov on 7 February 2020. The first reading. The meeting was attended by Mr. Asen Markov, Chief Secretary of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, Mr. Borislav Popov, Executive Director of the Bulgarian Football Union, Mr. Minko Pondev, Head of the Sports Activities Sector, Mr. Plamen Kolev, Head of the Internal Affairs Sector, and Senior Commissioner Anton Zlatanov, Deputy Head of the Sofia Directorate of Interior. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the National Representative Slavcho Atanasov, who pointed out that the project was drawn up in relation to the need to take adequate measures ensuring the protection of public order in the event of sports events at stadiums. Its main objective is to improve and remove certain gaps found in the regulations concerning the issuance of an act of suitability for stadiums according to UEFA criteria. The proposed additions and amendments regulate the establishment of a commission to the regional managers, which will include representatives of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, the Ministry of Interior, owners and users of the sports site. The Commission must verify, by drawing up a report, the possibility of the stadium fulfilling the basic requirements for security and safety in the organisation and conduct of international sporting events set out in the Law. The importer clarified that the new law on safety and security in sporting events already includes in detail the certification requirements for sports sites, depending on the level of safety and security they cover. This will also identify the types of sporting events that will be possible on the relevant sporting site. Mr. Asen Markov, Mr. Borislav Popov and Mr. Minko Pondev expressed their support to the Bill and noted that the proposals are a legitimate consequence of the measures taken and the requirements of the organization and implementation of the sports events of the stadiums in order to ensure security and safety, ensuring the protection of public order. The following discussion was attended by the MPs Stefan Apostolov, Ivan Chenchev, Yordan Yordanov and Slavcho Atanasov, all participants united around the proposal between first and second reading to clarify the texts, specifying that the requirements of Annex No 1 to the bill are mandatory in the event of international football meetings in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria only. As a result of the discussion and on the basis of what was held The Committee on Children, Youth and Sports proposes to the National Assembly to support the First Voting Draft for amendment and supplement to the Law on the Protection of Public Order in the Conduct of Sports Events, No 054-01-9, submitted by the National Representative Slavcho Stoev Atanasov and a group of MPs on 7 February 2020. "First reading. "
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u31	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. There is no report from the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, so I am opening the debates on the Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u32	I'd like to introduce the Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u33	I'm very sorry, Mr. Atanasov, if you'd like to present the bill as an importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u34	Dear Mr. Chairman, there is no way, I have to say a few words as an importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u35	Yeah, yeah, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u36	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! As you know, since last year the new Law on Physical Education and Sports has entered into force, and since October 2019 we have ratified the new Council of Europe Convention on an integrated approach to safety, security and service during football matches and other sporting events. In the already repealed old Law on Physical Education and Sports by reference to the Regulation on the Security of Sports Sites, measures against the violence and bad behaviour of viewers before, during and after the conduct of sports events organised in stadiums and sports halls, the mechanism under which municipal committees, together with the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Youth and Sports, prepared an act and a final signature of the Minister of Sports confirming the security of the sports facility for carrying out the sport event was regulated in an old decree of 2000. Without this act, the sporting object was not allowed to take place during sports events. However, the new Convention, which I mentioned earlier, offers completely new and clearer objectives aimed at ensuring security, safety, hospitable environment in the conduct of football meetings and other sporting events, not only for the control of violence. It lays down basic principles and measures to reduce risks of a different nature in sporting events, natural disasters, terrorist attacks, weaknesses of sports infrastructure and so on. This also imposed the decision that the most precise place to regulate stadiums is in the developed, notice, a new Law on Safety and Security during sports events, where, on the basis of certain criteria for safety and security of sporting events set out in the new Convention, will be certified. At the moment, the development of the new Safety and Security Act during sports events is in the final, colleagues, as the matter is extremely complex Following the ratification of the Convention, it was imperative that we make a serious analysis in order to get to really working texts on certification of sports sites, their differentiation depending on the level, safety and security in relation to the conduct of sports events. It is very close to being introduced to the National Assembly. At this stage, however, note, colleagues, a gap in the regulations regarding the issuance of an act of suitability for stadiums on the international criteria of UEFA related to the holding of international football meetings on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. In this regard, a rapid change of the current Law on the Protection of Sports Order during sports events is required to give the legal opportunity to issue this act. You know what this is about, guys. We are talking about our match with Hungary on 27 March and, for God's sake, the second match between Iceland and Bulgaria, or between Bulgaria and Romania. The proposed additions and amendments regulate the establishment of a commission to the regional managers, which will include representatives of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, the Ministry of Interior and Owners, and users of the sports site. The Commission must verify, by means of the report drawn up, that the stadium fulfils the basic requirements set out in the Annex to the Law for ensuring security and safety in the organisation and conduct of international sporting events. The new Law on Safety and Security in the conduct of sporting events already includes in detail the certification requirements for sports sites depending on the level of safety and security they cover. This will also identify the types of sporting events that will be possible on the relevant sporting site. I got acquainted with the opinions of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, the Ministry of Interior, the Bulgarian Football Union, and taking into account also the discussions held in the committees, as importers I accept most of the remarks, of course, which, at second reading, we are thinking of overcoming them. Between first and second readings will be refined the criteria set out in Annex 1 to art. 7b, para 1, taking into account the opinions of the Ministry of Interior and the Bulgarian Football Union, of course. I would like to stress that it will be explicitly stated that these criteria will apply only to international matches, and for the internal championship the requirements will determine the leading Federation.... the Bulgarian Football Union. Thank you for listening very carefully.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u37	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. We are moving on to the debate on the bill. Statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u38	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The Law on the Protection of Public Order in the conduct of sporting events adopted by Parliament in 2004 regulates measures for the protection of public policy and measures against anti-social events carried out in the conduct of sports events. The importers argue that the draft law for a further amendment of the Law, with the need to take adequate measures to ensure the protection of public policy in the conduct of sporting events. For us, from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, it is not appropriate to continue the practice as an importer to be located, any MP or group of MPs. This is not serious! It is only right for the Council of Ministers to be an importer, that is, the Ministry of Youth and Sports and the Ministry of Interior should not hide behind the opinions given, but to do the work regarding amendments to the Law and to be a proposal of the Council of Ministers in the appropriate order. I believe that the idea of importers to ensure the safety of participants in sports events is, however, practically justified and consistent with the objectives proclaimed in art. Two of the Bill. It is apparent from the texts of the Bill that, in relation to the proposed high requirements, a legal delegation is being established by the regional governors, through deliberately established regional committees, to carry out an assessment of compliance with the requirements set out in the Annex. The requirements in Annex 1 may be met for some of the sports sites in large cities, but cannot be met with certainty for rural stadiums where football meetings are also held. The conclusion is that the regional governors will not have the right to authorise the use of these sites. In this sense, we would support the proposed bill, but it will only be applicable in practice if there is a differentiation of security requirements to different sports sites in different cities. In the new direction is this opinion of the National Association of Municipalities. We at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms at first reading will support this bill. We believe that between first and second readings we will make the necessary changes in order for the bill to be in order with its actions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u39	Thank you, dear Mr. Ahmedov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Malinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u40	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! It's an important bill, but as a group, there are things that disturb us. There's a few of them. Firstly, I kind of agree with the opinion of my fellow Members from the Parliamentary Group on the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. The first disturbing factor is the overall absence of the state in this process. Why has the bill not been tabled by the Council of Ministers or respectively by the Ministry of Youth and Sports? In this whole process, they're absent. Those who are responsible for both sports infrastructure and rules and implementation, and so on, are absent. This calls for this urgency, which also leads to some misgivings in the texts that are confusing, which must be removed between first and second readings. In principle, we, as a group, declare that we will support the bill at first reading, but we have our specific requirements for changing the texts. First, meet strictly and categorically the requirements of UEFA, which are for conducting. Secondly, I stress international competitions as well as my colleague reports. And the third is, I stress again, we are very upset by the total absence of the Ministry of Youth and Sports. Can anyone explain why? The attempt to transfer responsibility, organisation and signature to regional governors is, in our view, incorrect. What does the Ministry of Youth and Sports do? Why does it exist? Distribute some money in federalities and control the activity of the Sports Totalizer. The one who has to be responsible for sports facilities, sports infrastructure, the one who has to certify things is the Ministry of Youth and Sports. This proves only one thing.. we have a direct involvement of the state in this process. These things need to be ironed between first and second readings, otherwise we will adjust our attitude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u41	Thank you, dear Mr. Malinov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As before me, the Vice-President of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms (Mister Ahmed Ahmed Ahmedov) said, the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms (Motion for Rights and Freedoms) will support this bill at first reading. For 30 years, colleagues, we have been upholding principles, upholding our priorities and indeed one of our main priorities is the health and security of all Bulgarian citizens, but with the clarification that between first and second reading we reserve the right to make a proposal in the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Public Order in the conduct of sporting events. My fellow Members, I cannot help but express the strong disagreement of the Parliamentary Group on the way to the order in which, once again, an extremely important, socially significant bill is put in place, bypassing the Council of Ministers, bypassing the regional ministries in the case of the Ministry of Youth and Sport, bypassing the Ministry of Interior without public discussion. This has become a vicious practice that is patented by the majority in the 44th National Assembly, unfortunately. Yes, honourable Members, there is no dispute, there is currently a gap in the law since the old Law on Physical Education and Sports and the new law has been repealed, such a proposal must be made in the Law on the Protection of Public Order in the conduct of sporting events. But here the question is does this amendment have to be in this form and does it cover all sports sites that need to be certified? It is not only the sports sites at which international sports meetings will be held. In this case it is specifically a meeting that will be played at the National Stadium Vasil Levski in March. And the other thing I would like to add is whether the Council of Ministers in due order, through, again, I say, the portfolio of the Ministry of Youth and Sports and the Ministry of Interior, through a broad public discussion with all interested parties to implement this bill, or will we continue with the vicious practice of introducing bills on behalf of fellow MPs, bypassing the Council of Ministers and seizing the functions of the relevant ministries? And I am convinced, honourable Members, that you know those who have not been in the Internal Commission, those who have not been in the Commission for Youth and Sports, if there are no amendments between first and second reading, with the adoption of this bill, as said by the Member of the National Assembly, the Vice-President of the Parliamentary Group, Mr. Ahmed Ahmed Ahmedov, well, we place, we condemn football in the small settlements of doom if we do not make a correction between first and second readings! Because by taking it that way, football in small towns and small towns is doomed to destruction! And this was confirmed by the colleague during the Commission, which was held. This is another proof that this bill is written on a knee and is not serious what is being proposed. I say again, the parliamentary group of......... the movement for rights and freedoms...............................and we will support this bill at first reading with the condition that a proposal should be made between first and second readings................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u43	Thank you, dear Mr. Ali. - What's the line? I can't see. For your statement, Mr. Chenchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are well aware of the importance of this bill. That's exactly why we're going to support him. And here those who spoke before me, in most of my part, I see Mr. Manev in the front row, attended a meeting of the Resort Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. Of course, it became clear in the presence of the Football Union, in the presence of the Ministry of Interior. I am in a hurry to tell the MPs that, by supporting the Law now, at first reading, we will see if these texts, which we have spoken about just now, and all colleagues have shared their concerns, will be refined. But at the same time, I am in a hurry to tell my colleagues that yes, they will be refined and I even know that the experts have already prepared them because they do. The text should include the word "International" in terms of sports sites, because otherwise we put the clubs that do not play in European tournaments to be unable to license their stadiums, or rather, not to be able to use them in official, professional matches, let alone those from European club tournaments. It is, however, that they will not be able to enjoy them in relation to the Bulgarian Championship. That is why the word "International" is extremely important. They should know that the Senior Commissioner Anton Zlatanov, who attended the Commission meeting, expressed his concerns regarding some other missing texts. But for us it is a comfort, for all of us, he received the assurances and the experts that the proposals and what he offers, de facto, will be entered in the proper order between first and second readings to specify the law itself. Another point is that the Law on the Protection of Public Order in Sports Events should be more comprehensive. In the Commission, I set an example with the fact that we have people who have died, unfortunately, during competitions and at the rally in Bulgaria. Since this law is about sports events and public order, about sports sites, it is very important to refine the texts with regard to all sports events and not just football matches, because every international federation has international requirements. Yeah, the game with Hungary. Barrage is knocking on the door, it is extremely important that we ensure that it is held in Bulgaria, not to be sent to Belgrade or Skopje, something that will not be good not only for our football and its supporters, but generally for the idea of hosting such an important match. Of course, for God's sakes, let's play the second game here at Vasil Levski but it's not just about stadium Vasil Levski. We are talking about all the stadiums that host clubs that have now ranked for European tournaments, and I therefore stress that this word is extremely important. The proposal requires stadiums, sports objects to meet these requirements, having a control room with regard to video surveillance, a detention room. But I think that with the concrete proposals of the Ministry of Interior in the face of Senior Commissioner Anton Zlatanov, who is present in the Commission, that this thing between first and second reading will be ironed out and at second reading we will come up with a very meaningful bill to enable the preservation of public order during these so important sporting events. We will therefore support the Bill and monitor between first and second readings if all of our concerns are reflected, we will also support it at second reading. Thank you for your attention, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u45	Thank you, dear Mr. Chenchev. - What's the line? I can't see. Here you are, Mr. Atanasov, for your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u46	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! First of all, I would like to thank both the parliamentary groups, both the left and the DPS, that, despite the comments, they will support it. It's not a bill, it's a ZID. It's a Law of Amendment and Supplement, and there's a huge difference, don't think of it as some kind of bullying, but it is. I thank both the parliamentary groups for their support at first reading. At second reading, there are, of course, some amendments that will have to be made, and there will be mandatory amendments to that is the commitment made by the Parliamentary Commission for Children, Youth and Sports for such agreements, if you will gentlemen. We have received several accusations that, in my opinion, are not accurate, not that colleagues do it maliciously, but they do it simply out of lack of sufficient information. First of all, what took us so long? We slowed down, colleagues, because the Convention, which is about football and sports hooliganism, was ratified in the Bulgarian Parliament only at the end of October. Some will say that this convention is a few sides. Colleagues, no, that's not true! The Annexes to this Convention are four.. where are the most important things for what Europe and UEFA require of us, but do you know how many pages there are? 660 pages are and these 660 pages the working group reviewed them sentence by sentence and comma by comma. Come on, fellow Members, agree that this is an extremely important bill, as other colleagues have said, because let's face it, it concerns a contingent of people who have a soft say, certain features, so that the Law should be steel in these relations, there should be no gaps in it. That's why this law is watched for a year. This is where they asked why. This is not the work of the Commission of the Ministry of Interior and of the Commission for Children, Youth and Sports, and this is the work of the Council of Ministers. I'll tell you why. Because this is a very complicated, very heavy matter and requires, notice More than a year on this bill worked a working group of Parliament's parliamentary forces. And here I would like to thank many people who worked in this group, for example, Mr. Ali was a permanent member of this parliamentary working group. Representatives of the Ministry of Sport participated, representatives of the Ministry of Regional Development participated, and at the level of deputy ministers participated, of course, from the Bulgarian Football Union. We have seen comma by comma and article by article this law so that there is no breakthrough in the Law, as it deals with a specific group of people with peculiarities. Why are we late? Firstly, because we were surprised and the whole of Bulgaria was surprised that the two households would be at the stadium in Sofia. You know it's not up to us, and it's up to the UEFA? Our first household is with Hungary, let us continue, and for the second match the household is with Iceland or with Romania. That's a lot to decide, and the UEFA decides it. In another place, the letter we received from UEFA on this issue was not received until the end of January, and there was no faster way to get it into the parliament than this PID that opened in the Law. It is no coincidence that one of the colleagues said that Mr. Chenchev or Mr. Ali is in danger if we do not vote now this correction, there is a danger that this match will not be played in Sofia, there is a danger that this match will be played either in Belgrade or in Athens or in Istanbul or in Skopje. You can think of what's going to happen in the country if this game isn't homemade. I will not hide and as a football fan ever since I was a child I tell you that the audience will be extremely important in the victories of these matches, extremely important! And the stadium needs to be filled. It is one thing to play Vasil Levski. It is another if we do not vote on this amendment, to play the match in Belgrade. I ask you very much and thank you that at first reading you will support it. We will do our best to make the necessary amendments and, accordingly, the Law will enter for second reading next week. Then we have to wait for the President's Decree and from there we have the assurance that they will quickly ratify it, so that we can not get a gaffe, rudely speaking in slangon language, for the match with Hungary and UEFA to be calm that everything will be okay in Sofia. Colleagues, thank you again for the support that the two opposition parliamentary groups have expressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u47	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. Here you are, Mr. Yankov, for your statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u48	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Unfortunately, I do not see a representative of the executive, and I do not see this transmission, which will subsequently lead to the implementation of the measures and events proposed in the Law on the Protection of Public Order in the event of sporting events. This amendment is drawn up in relation to the need to take adequate measures to ensure the protection of public policy in the conduct of sports events at the stadium as stated in the reasoning. First, is there an overall concept of the security and safety of Bulgarian citizens? No, you won't. Force major, a number of measures are being proposed, but they are late and incomplete. The safety measures for sports events, mass events in their majority must bring both peace and a sense of safety to the Bulgarian citizens. Dear importers, you must have considered that a large number of Bulgarian citizens are worried about attending such sporting events precisely because safety is not guaranteed. And now is the question of the incompleteness of the proposed measures: why not take the necessary step that will have to be taken to personify the ticket sold? This personification ensures the identification of each visitor and its positioning, which is also the most serious measure in the fight against terrorist acts, all the more so that much of the tickets are purchased electronically, which requires registration. It remains the same to be entered on the register. This is essential, but not available at the moment, meaning the proposed measures and events are not comprehensive. This is by a model that offers changes or changes the laws completely, it is not just an imperfection in legislation, but an opportunity not to ensure stable legislation, which will lead, firstly, to the use of huge resources, in order to implement those measures that are currently being proposed with the amendments in the Law, and at the same time, those who need to provide this financial resource, to know, let us warn them that these are not all measures and expect that there will be further changes that will also lead to financial burdens. In the end, I am counting that, in a broad consensus, we will come to a stable legislation guaranteeing the peace, safety, adequate work of the services, because, ladies and gentlemen, in other countries, it is the stadiums that are the places where this calm and safety is guaranteed and not only sporting events are held, but mainly concerts, including rallies where sufficient space can be provided for mass events. Pull yourself together and sit down at a table to have them all these measures and be able to be implemented! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u49	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. The line, Mr. Atanasov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u50	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Iankov, with all due respect to you, I must tell you that the entire speech you gave...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u51	It was a statement!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u52	Okay, if it's not a speech, a speech to be a speech and about all the things you've been talking about, in practice right now, listen to me carefully, they exist in the new one, I repeat, almost fully drafted Law. Only, come on, let's tell the truth: these things we're doing right now, we're doing them for the game with Hungary and for the game with Iceland, for the requirements of UEFA. All these things that you are saying about security measures and so on are included in the new Law. If UEFA hadn't sent us this letter at the end of January, it meant that this new law, if we go to implement it right now, you know a brand new law on average enters once every 20 years, it's not ZID, but Law and this law will look at it quite continuously. There will be public discussion, there will be first, second reading in Parliament, there will be amendments again, there will be remarks again, there will be many things. The law will be ready, and you really know that a new law will go on committees for at least two months, will go on the parliamentary hall and so on. The game with Hungary is on the 27th and we don't have time. That's the problem, that's the truth. Why we don't have time I answered the previous statement. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] That's it, Mr. Yankov. Otherwise you're very right, very right. We spend a year and a half dealing with the European Union Convention and the UEFA, where absolutely new security rules are. Believe me, it's completely new rules. Mr. Chenchev has also helped us a lot, also came experts of UEFA to consult us, came David Bowen, who is the head of the entire European Union on football issues and football hooliganism, came to Bulgaria to consult us. So, in my opinion, the Law is professionally prepared because here with this law it should not be a joke, it will be adopted within a few months at least, and the match with Hungary is on the 27th, I think. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u53	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u54	That's it, guys, big game. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u55	Thank you. Another line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u56	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Atanasov, you have acknowledged that we, as a parliamentary group, are dialogueal and contribute to this stable legislation in relation to the measures needed and the events to be taken to ensure the peace and safety of Bulgarian citizens in organizing sports events. It's not the BSP, it's not the opposition. The problem seems to be in the coalition he runs. You're a leader, you've given yourself this task of ensuring that this law is passed. The parliamentary procedure requires the same time "Whether it is an amendment and an addition to the Law or an adoption of a new law. More than a year ago, you and I were at a meeting of the National Stadium Vasil Levski and representatives of the Ministry of Interior, of the Ministry of Sport, of the National Sports Base, of the management of the National Stadium, and there you received support from the National Stadium and Parliamentary and to propose, deal with and vote on such a law. And now it is necessary to force major because of the delay in the adoption of this law to make amendments and additions. That's my criticism. You have a problem with the coalition not only institutionally with regard to the work of coalition partners in the various institutions, I open a brace, not only because of arrests in the executive power, you also have a problem with the adoption by consensus by law and this makes you unsuitable. To have stable legislation, to have predictability to generate the tranquility of both those who have to apply the legislation and those who have to comply with this legislation, and this happens in the last year of management. Are you sure that this law within this year will be admitted by your great partner, the dominant party in the Coalition.. GERB, and there will be such a law within this National Assembly? No, you're not sure. [[(Reply from Slavcho Atanasov: How can I not be sure?]] Therefore, my appeal to everyone is: when it comes to calm and safety, to ensure that Bulgarian citizens are guaranteed, let all contradictions be resolved, to listen to experts and to comply with what we will call stable legislation, as there is in other European countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u57	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u58	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We got ourselves together. We got ourselves together and now let's talk about the Law, because the last statement is on the border to start talking about politics, but I will not do it, because I am absolutely convinced that when we talk about sports, politics is the most, the last thing we have to deal with. You're right, Mr. Iankov, about many of the things you said about the topic of security. You are also right that this topic is extremely bulky, extremely serious when we talk about mass sporting events. And that's why my hope, my great hope, is in the big so-called working law, the whole law. Our Ratified Convention a few months ago, and the knowledge of the structure that will deal with it, the Committee, which after our ratification is already a fact, will enable this law to be working so as to achieve the compromise that both Mr. Chenchev and other colleagues are talking about. The compromise between people going calmly to sporting events and being there, and you said it, and at the same time not having problems with supporting their beloved teams in all kinds of sports is the big law. But we're talking about a change here. By the way, I will allow myself to disagree with the chairman of the Sports Commission and with my colleagues personally, not as an opinion, but as a personal one. I am not going to participate as an importer of this law and in the work under this law with the idea that this is done for the football match Bulgaria and I do not know who and so on. Yeah, it's a fact, and it's true. But we had to make it so that we could block an administrative gap that appeared both after the Convention and after UEFA's letter and after the new Sports Act entered into force. And that's what we're actually doing today. We decide who structurally does the evaluation of sports facilities, in the case of stadiums, how to do it, why to do it. Because at the end of the day, this case requires an act of a state body to say that this facility, this stadium, is fine. When we talk about all sports facilities, however, the topic becomes extremely interesting because there things are different. Each international sports federation has different ways of licensing sports events. And you said it, I agree. There you need to know that the procedures are different. So we're only talking about what we're proposing to you today, and it's about creating the structure that will license them, creating the possibility of these stadiums, now here I'm going to say something that maybe the other colleagues should have said and missed it, and I'm going to take advantage of this omission to say that for the stadiums actually, which we are talking about, all the measures that we have mentioned in the Law have long been implemented. They've been executed for a long time. Yes, there is this moment.. we have to write that it is about international competitions or international requirements of UEFA, we will do it between first and second readings. Why? Because there were opinions of colleagues who said: "Let's do it for everyone. Why are you doing this only for the one person? " - Because we will leave half of Bulgaria without stadiums, and that is not the goal. The aim is for the Bulgarian Football Union to have the opportunity to license its internal championship, small championships and so on, but it is a technique. I will answer the question: why are we doing this through the district governors? I know that this is a matter of concern to my fellow Members. Because it's only the district governors who can communicate locally. Officially, they are the representatives of the state and can communicate with all the services of the Ministry of Interior. To every district manager this, by the way, to tell colleagues who are convinced that the Ministry of Sport does not interfere here, to the district governors in each district management there is an appointed representative of the Ministry of Sport and he works there. Is this an intervention? Well, of course it's the involvement of the Ministry of Sports. Why don't we put them on level one? Well, because in the end, it's the minister's signature that confirms what comes from the governor in the letter to UEFA. One of them can't check, and he can't sign to UEFA, right, technology. If someone comes up with better technology, I don't think anyone's gonna mind. That's why we did it. Yes, there have been debates, and there will continue the debate about who it should be, but I cannot agree with those about municipalities at all. Ninety percent of the municipalities own sports sites and evaluate their own sporting objects, and to say how good they are or bad, somehow it doesn't sound good to me. As for something important that I wasn't going to say, but come on, we're being honest today, and the subject is sports. Look, colleagues, unfortunately, the bad in quotes football hooliganism has shifted and it's not just football anymore. Agitators allow themselves to transfer their opposition to any sporting event. I will, until the very last moment, as long as I have the opportunity to participate in the working groups, as long as I can work on this topic as a Member of the National Assembly, argue and argue that we must by no means compromise with security, and compromise with the security of those people who want to watch sporting events and be part of the sense of sport, and our measures for making sports facilities translated into some kind cannot rest on compromises. Therefore, their division into international ones meeting standards at the highest level and the assignment of responsibility to sports organisations that have actually taken over themselves to manage, to develop, to administer the types of sport is the right approach and it has not been since yesterday. There are people here who have done it in the State Agency before, there are people who have done it in the Ministry and will continue to do it because that is the logic. I will say two words about the Ministry of Interior and their last proposals. They're part of the working groups and the big law, and now. Here you are doing all of you, colleagues who say that the Ministry of Interior or ministries should make their commitment and import things clearly, precisely, written directly in the order in which they consider them to be their PIDs within the legislative initiative of the Council of Ministers and the ministers. Let's get these things done. Because if we open the debate here in this room for that, shouldn't there be, well, shouldn't there be precincts or police stations in every stadium? You can't do that. Each such thing must be written, passed into coordination and entered this room in this way. We work perfectly with these people in working groups. Yes, they are experts and as experts only look at their expert position. Our responsibility to the MPs is to make the Law so that it works not only for security experts, to work for citizens, to go, to be able to enter this stadium. You're right, Mr. Yankov. By the way, just for the record, and I'm done with the individualization of the tickets. In the big law, things are going well and there's only a problem with technology. The colleague is a permanent representative there and participates constantly, just looking for the best technological solution on this topic: how to individualize and then check the entrance exactly how to happen. I think we'll settle this with your help, too, I hope. Thank you, colleagues. Support this law. It's not just about a football game, it's just about creating a system to evaluate stadiums and get them into shape. I really also appeal to the chairman of the Sports Commission, please, let us strengthen this working group, let us bring in the big law, let us finish it, because really the challenges are changing. Even now, the Convention that we have ratified, in connection with some new developments in the world is changing and we need to be ready and adequate. Thank you, colleagues. I hope you'll support the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u59	Thank you, dear Mr. Manev. The line, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u60	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Ministry of Interior is responsible for the security and safety of Bulgarian citizens, responsible for the protection of public order. Any attempt to transfer this responsibility to other institutions, NGOs or legal entities under the Law on the Registration of Legal Persons is an abdication from the basic Act on the Ministry of Interior. This is to impose responsibility on sports federations when implementing measures and protecting public order when organizing sports events.. is abdication of the main functions of the Ministry of Interior, recognition of inability, you, as management, to ensure adequate work of the institutions. Don't let yourself unload the Ministry of Interior again! You have done so with amendments to the Law, which have allowed the creation of units to the local authorities, the mayors, and you have done so with a number of other changes, with the possibility of police powers to have many institutions. With regard to sport, this will once again show your understanding of the Ministry of Interior's inability, despite the annual increase in state and budget, to fulfil its main function.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u61	Thank you. Second line, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u62	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Manev, you are also a member of the Internal Commission, you have an attitude to the Ministry of Interior, to the Ministry of Interior Act, by the way he is about to be tabled for a second vote, at first we accepted it, to ask you: is there any commitments, or will the Ministry of Interior have commitments to guard some party events, say congress, election of congress president? [[Radio.]] I hear here that it is the Ministry of Interior's duty to guard everything in this country. Maybe there are such changes. I'm not a member of the Internal Affairs Committee, so I don't know. If there is such a commitment, please let me know.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u63	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. Third line, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm using the right line maybe to make an addition. Regarding what the Ministry of Interior offers and in the working groups Mr. Manev knows. In fact, Mr. Manev, I told you to take this as an addition because you had turned around and didn't hear and not just as a line. The Ministry of Interior had proposals that didn't work out afterwards, so changes were imposed, and you remember very well. As regards ticket customization, too. The measures that were laid down definitely did not result in the desired result. Moreover, if we are now talking about small clubs and stadiums and if the amendment does not enter at second reading the word "International" the small clubs will suffer. Well, they would also suffer in the customization of the tickets, namely the technique Mr. Manev talked about, because that is the question.. Indeed, by personalizing the tickets, how will people be allowed to the stadiums, how will they be checked in particular? The more worrying question is: in the so-called risk matches by the Ministry of Interior, how will the crossing regime of the respective entrances of the agits and crowding people to what will lead to frustration and so on? And another thing is that these contestants also visit the smaller towns with clubs, which, to say, play in the tournament for the Cup of Bulgaria and are ranked in higher circles. However, this match is also taking place at risk by the Ministry of Interior, and the stadium as required is not suitable for a match of this caliber. So, indeed, the texts for the second reading now, and generally in the so-called big law, must be very well refined. This is not just about the match-derbits of Sofia, Plovdiv, Varna, for example. It's all about the games they play in, let's say, our grands against the smaller teams and the police are taking them at risk, the Ministry of Interior is leading these games as risky. There's really a lot of work to be done. I agree here that we should all do it. Absolutely! Moreover, that we can argue here, we can debate in which there is nothing wrong, but there is a European Union, there are requirements, there is a UEFA! They are betting on their criteria, and if we do not meet them, you and I may be sitting in this room by tomorrow. The effect will not be what we want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u65	Thank you. Mr. Manev, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u66	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I'll bring the first two questions together in one answer. Colleague Jankov is here. I'll explain, colleague Iankov. What you have said from this tribune as a replica, and Mr. Lazarov's question has a very precise purpose and it is this: not whether you should be guarded by the Ministry of Interior congresses, but the Ministry of Interior should come and tell you where to build your congresses to protect you more easily. This is what we are doing right now. We are limiting the text of the Law to certain events that are not conventions of a small or large party, but to a sporting event at the highest level of UEFA, so that it is possible for its requirements to have someone to say that these stadiums meet them. End of story. I'm not going into politics anymore, so we're not going to send them from Sofia to do their convention in the new beautiful hall in Ruse, for example. This is not the work of the Ministry of Interior and that's what I'm saying! Now to Mr. Chenchev, because this coat is more important to me right now. It's about the fact that we shouldn't stray, Mr. Chenchev, because if we go off course, we go into theory, and I know Mr. Chairman very well, and how he's gonna sanction me right away. I've worked with him for many years as chairman. [[Radio.]] It's just about the specific bill. This bill has one single objective for these stadiums that can and meet and at the time of UEFA's requirements, to have a procedure for them to take over their permits and to be able to do their job. That's the most, in my opinion. Everything else goes to the big law. By the way, there are things that Mr. Iankov said that are the basic theory of what we're dealing with right now. This is a global dispute in the theory of security at such mass events. I can debate with him in a working group with pleasure, but with great pleasure! I just know it's coming out of the context of what we're doing right now. Therefore, colleagues, we have no differences on this subject. We have opinions and views on this topic, and opinions and views, by the way, in the National Assembly are between first and second readings, as well as in working groups, in committees, where the expertise is. Support the Bill, solve the particular problem and not leave a hole in the administration of this procedure, and now in the big law give on a very wide scale to solve all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u67	Thank you, dear Mr. Manev. You know I'm always prepared to apply the unwritten part of the Rules to you. [[Radio.]] Colleagues, we are continuing with our speeches. I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Now I will put to the vote the Draft Law for amendment and supplement of the Law for the Protection of Public Order in the Conduct of Sports Events, No 054-01-9, submitted by the MPs Slavcho Atanasov, Manoil Manev and Stefan Apostolov. Please vote. Vote 141 MPs: 140, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Now we will continue with the second point of the program: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE ENVIRONMENT LAW. Importers are Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. Here you are to present the report of the Committee on Environment and Water.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u68	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I present to you the report of the Committee on Environment and Water: At a regular meeting held on 20 February 2020, the Committee on Environment and Water examined at first reading a Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Environmental Protection Act, No 054-01-11, submitted by the National Representative Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs on 14 February 2020. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Environment and Water: Mr. Emil Dimitrov, Minister; Mrs. Silvia Dimitrova, Director of the Department of Environmental Assessment, Environmental Impact Assessment and Pollution Prevention, Ms. Mihaela Dotsova, Director of Legal Directorate and representatives of NGOs. On behalf of the importer The bill and the reasons for its submission were presented by the MP Yvelina Vassileva. She stressed that the aim of the submitted bill is to introduce a maximum degree of security that all measures to prevent pollution and concerns of people about illegal waste incineration practices can be allowed. Currently, the Bulgarian legislation fully transposes the European environmental impact assessment (EIA), including the scope of Annex 1 and Annex 2 to the Environmental Protection Act. The scope of Annex 1 shall include investment proposals subject to mandatory EIA, while Annex 2 shall include those subject to discretion. Annex 2 provides investment intentions concerning waste incineration in quantities up to 100 tonnes per day. In larger quantities, investment proposals are part of Annex 1, i.e. subject to mandatory EIA. The proposals made shall ensure that all waste-burning installations, regardless of their capacity, are built or for reconstruction and modernisation, will undergo the mandatory EIA procedure. Another important point is the proposal for the so-called experimental installations to be subject to mandatory EIA. In the past two years, this has happened with only one letter of agreement from the competent authority, which does not sufficiently ensure that all possible risks are taken into account and that good environmental protection is ensured. The adoption of the proposed texts will lead to a strengthening of preventive control, including to bring comfort to society, which is very worried about the exported cases related to concerns about unregulated waste incineration or operation of installations under unauthorized regime. The mandatory EIA procedure obliges the investor to make a detailed analysis of potential environmental impacts, in addition to ensuring more awareness, transparency and the ability of citizens to participate in environmental decisions. Attitudes on the submitted bill took the MPs Manol Genov and Atanas Kostadinov. They expressed support from the BSP parliamentary group on the submitted bill, noting that the current environmental legislation is sufficient to ensure normal work in these activities, but due to lack of adequate control it is necessary to adopt stricter requirements for them. They stressed that they considered that mobile installations for the burning of animal carcasses were not covered and would propose texts between the first and second reading of the Bill. The representatives of NGOs also expressed a positive opinion on the Bill, noting that they believe that the scope of the bill does not include the recovery plants, but only those for disposal, which is why part of the installations will be dropped. Ms. Vasileva explained that the proposed texts follow the terminology of the EIA Directive, but there is a European Commission guide on the scope of Annex I and Annex II of the EIA Directive, which gives an interpretation that, for the purposes of the Directive, the use of the EIA Directive is also involved. If necessary, for the sake of clarity, the texts will be revised before a second reading of the Bill. As regards mobile installations, Mrs. Vasileva explained that she considers that the proposed texts cover all the hypotheses, and, of course, the MPs have the opportunity to make proposals under the bill. After the discussion and the vote held, the Committee on Environment and Water unanimously expressed 19 votes for..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the Environment, No 054-01-11, submitted by the National Representative Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs on 14 February 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u69	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetkov. Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva. You have the floor to state the opinion of the importers.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, I present to your attention the Bill which we have submitted together with colleagues from GERB's parliamentary group, to amend and supplement the Environmental Protection Act, a measure which is part of a complex of measures taken in connection with the tightening of the control in the sector, and in particular the activities related to the incineration of waste. This is an expression of our will to unite our efforts, together with the executive, to implement more effective control and to prevent uncontrolled practices related to the burning of hazardous and unsafe waste. You know that under the Environmental Protection Act, which fully transposes European legislation into the environmental impact assessments, the texts of the Directive relating to both the definition of the procedures applied and the course of the procedures themselves are transposed. The Law includes two applications. Annex No 1, which requires a mandatory environmental impact assessment procedure for investment intentions which are explicitly listed in the Annex. Accordingly, Annex 2 includes such investment intentions relating to the construction or construction and the introduction of new technologies that are subject to assessment by the competent authority whether it is necessary to proceed to an environmental impact assessment or not. In our proposal we are making a change in both the body of the Law and in Annex No 1 to the Law, thereby introducing even more stringent than existing requirements, both in our current legislation and in the European legislation, and these proposals are aimed at the activities that concern the burning of waste. Why are we doing this? Because in the current texts of the Law, the Annex, respectively, requires an environmental impact assessment to be applied to installations and facilities in which waste is burned in a volume of more than 100 tonnes per day, while at the same time the lower category of up to 100 tonnes is subject to the discretion of the competent authority. We note that over the last two years there have been ten assessment procedures by the competent authority whether an environmental impact assessment is necessary and they have concluded with an opinion that it is not necessary. This does not give us a full degree of security and a guarantee that all possible measures are provided for and the requirements for best techniques in terms of waste incineration have been applied. For us, this is part of the reason why some cases of uncontrolled burning have also occurred, of course, and the concern of society. We want to eliminate this through the proposal that we are doing and ensure that, in the case of waste incineration, in order to achieve full security and guarantee for the protection of nature, human health, the most severe procedure within the meaning of the Law must be applied, and it is the so-called deep EIA or environmental impact assessment. What's she suggesting? It suggests a detailed analysis of the potential impact of the installation or investment intention on the environment, on environmental components, respectively, human health. It requires competent authorities to rule on potential risks, to undergo discussions on the investment intentions of operators, investors and to pronounce the competent authorities accordingly after the entire procedure has been completed. I hope that this measure will receive the support of all MPs and the Commission has been supported by all the parliamentary groups, because I am convinced that this is the expectation of society in relation to the concerns that have arisen in recent months. One more proposal we have included in our bill and it is related to the so-called experimental combustion procedure that is permissible within the meaning of legislation. For him, we also introduce mandatory EIAs. Why? Because this, too, in my opinion, and in my colleagues' opinion, is a reason for some of the unregulated practices that have been established in recent months and are related to quite lightly, I would call behaviour by the competent authority, by which only one letter of agreement allows experimental waste burning in three cases that have become a reason, once again I say, for concern among citizens. These are our proposals, and I think that they, as well as the proposals in the Waste Management Act and the measures taken to tighten control by the competent authorities, will lead to more guarantees that this practice, which is generally permitted by the Law, which is applied in many countries, related to the implementation of the principles of the circular economy, you know, and the Green deal, which has been debated widely lately, are principles that concern the treatment of waste as resources and can be applied. The issue is to be applied in such a way that the best available techniques are used and not to allow pollution of the environment and damage to people's lives and health. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u71	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vasileva. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor for speeches, colleagues. Mrs. Zidarova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u72	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Bulgarian legislation fully transposes European legislation in terms of environmental impact assessment, including with regard to the conduct of procedures. The requirements of the Directive on the assessment of the impact of certain public and private projects on the environment, as well as its amendments, are introduced through the Environmental Protection Act. The principle of the Directive and, accordingly, the Law is to ensure that plans, programmes or projects likely to have a significant impact on the environment are subject to an environmental assessment prior to their approval. The environmental impact assessment shall be a systematic process whereby they identify, provide and assess the environmental impacts of the proposed projects before an approval decision is taken. The aim of the environmental impact assessment is to provide information in the course of the decision-making process on the environmental effects of the proposed projects and to stimulate environmentally friendly and sustainable development by identifying appropriate measures to prevent impacts. Thus, the environmental impact assessment is defined as a key instrument of EU and Bulgaria's environmental policy. It shall ensure the participation of the public and other competent authorities in the decision-making process. Interested parties shall thus be informed of the proposed projects and their likely environmental impacts, opinions, comments, objections, proposals and shall be taken into account when taking the decision. Giving the public an opportunity to participate effectively in the early stages of the environmental impact assessment process is one of the best preventive measures and increases the responsibility and transparency of the decision-making process. With the Bill, we offer stricter requirements for all activities of burning hazardous and non-hazardous waste, including with regard to experimental installations. Our proposals for a change to the Law in art. 93 in Annex 1 ensures that all waste-burning installations, whether hazardous or unsafe, including experimental combustion, will undergo the mandatory environmental impact assessment procedure. The objective to be achieved is to strengthen preventive control in relation to waste incineration activities, to take effective measures to protect the health of the population and the environment and sustainable development, which is a key concept that is increasingly important. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Zidarova. - What's the line? I can't see. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! We, and within the Commission, have expressed principled support for the proposal of colleagues from GERB. We have also prepared our proposals, so I hope we will aim in the same direction. How will I comment on this proposal? In order to have proper positioning in terms of legislation, we must also have a proper assessment. After 20 December, when we raised the issue of waste, water and air in principle, only about a month and a half in the country were found between 34 and 40 thousand tonnes of waste circulating in the country about a year. We were asked to welcome the actions of the services, the prosecution, the Economic Police and Customs, but this waste was in Bulgaria for about a year anyway. I say again, we welcome and support the proposals made, but we need to be aware of the following: this exerts legislation and makes it even more effective with regard to preventive control. Bulgaria has a problem with real, physical and actual control. In other words, we are facing a door that we need to close with more proposals that concern the mechanism of physical waste control. Preventive control. On it we make changes most often under public pressure what citizens say they need, or what they insist on, or what was publicly known. However, we need to make a difference with the extremely fine setting in terms of not tightening the preventive control as legislation and creating conditions for the light business that are impossible. We do not think that the proposal falls into this hypothesis, but whenever we are making changes to the Law from now on, we need to be aware that there are many problems, they have been years, they are a result of an approach, of routine, ostentatiousness, just so that paperwork can be implemented one legislation. We support this proposal with all our confidence that preventive control is a good thing. It has a preventative function, but we are still far from the real, physical control of the control bodies. I think we can contribute to environmental legislation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u75	Thank you, dear Mr. Kostadinov. Are there lines? I won't. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Ebatine.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we support the idea of a change in the legal act relating to the tightening of control over certain investment intentions, which is also related to ensuring a cleaner environment. Our only remark, as well as mine, in this case, is that the act of law as such should perhaps have a pre-emptive effect in relation to public events. In this case, public events related to the presence of waste, with their exploitation, have triggered this act of law. Perhaps we should tighten the control over all these procedures so that we have a pre-emptive action before it comes to a problematic situation in society. That's my only remark. I welcome the idea. I believe that we are debtors in terms of environmental protection as a legal act. We live in a world where, if we do not follow policies and strict restrition in terms of environmental protection procedures, there are prerequisites for people's health, and that is why there is no other way to treat this process than to welcome it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u77	Thank you, Mr. Ebatine. A line? Here you go, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, honourable colleague Ebatin! I'm making the following line based on your professional experience that you are professionally involved in environmental management processes until you become a MP. You have not commented or rather how you will comment on the concerns expressed in the discussion in the Commission by some of the NGOs that the changes we are making are probably just the disposal but not the recovery? Secondly, there is a risk that the changes made will only be valid for new installations, but not for the old ones. I'm making this line for you because you'll be able to clarify that better than I am. If it is necessary to explicitly record the use not, of course, with retroactive effect, but also the danger of only new ones, to eliminate it as an opportunity in the legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u79	Thank you, dear Mr. Kostadinov. Second line? I can't see. A hole, Mr. Ebatine? I won't. We continue with the speeches. Mr. Chakarov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u80	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! As Commissioner Ebatin has already said, the DPS will support these legislative initiatives and changes. At the same time, we must say that this should not be expected to be a panacea in terms of the management of waste-related activities. Yes, this is important in order to refine prevention activities for future installations that will burn waste. I share the consideration of my colleague Kostadinov, who just said that even now the existing combustion plants are all of their parameters must be aligned. We know that there are serious combustion capacities, and they need to be brought into line in particular in their part of filtering emissions, which currently worries our public, our fellow citizens especially in the regions where this activity is being carried out, and we as legislators must be aware of this being strictly implemented. My appeal and appeal is rather: what has taken place in recent months by the Ministry of Environment and Water, to be completed in the end and to be implemented not only in the company, but in principle and consistently with very strict controls on imports at the seaport border, on all modes of transport in which, after entering the country, very serious control and strict compliance with legislation is carried out, because it is sufficiently precise. We welcome the idea that yesterday was presented by the Ministry during the meeting of the Committee on Environment and Water, for a public register of all notifications, but I also think it would be good to have a public register of the state of all combustion plants and, above all, with regard to the functioning of filtration components. They must be in good condition, in good operational condition. Where there is any deviation from the norms, like serious monitoring, which takes place in other areas with regard to environmental components, and there is extremely strict control here so that there is no risk to the health and life of our fellow citizens, as well as to other environmental components. It's a good change, but, I repeat, it's not a panacea, it needs to be applied strictly. And now the legislation in force must provide such a framework in the macro-racial law on environmental protection and the relevant applications, not to quote them in figures. Let us hope that this will contribute to even more stringent control and better precision of any future investment intentions and their exploitation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u81	Thank you, dear Mr. Chakarov. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act, No 054-01-11, tabled by the National Representative Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. They voted 121 MPs: 120, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, I'm calling a 30-minute recess. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u82	Let's continue with: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR THE NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF METEOROLOGY AND HYDROLOGY. The report of the Committee on Education and Science will introduce us to Mrs. Milena Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u83	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I present to you: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law on the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology, No 002-01-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 January 2020. At its regular meeting on 19 February 2020, the Committee on Education and Science discussed a Draft for the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology, No 002-01-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 January 2020. The meeting was attended by Mr. Krasimir Valchev, Minister of Education and Science, Mr. Petar Nikolov, Deputy Minister; Academist Julian Revalski, Chairman of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences; Prof. Hristomir Brunzov, Director of the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology, Associate Professor Lilyana Valcheva, Chairman of the National Industrial Trade Union. The bill was presented by Mr. Peter Nikolov. He pointed out that it will create more favourable conditions for the sustainable development of the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology, for improving the quality of hydrometeorological services of the state and research in the areas of meteorology, hydrometeorology and agrometeorology. The Bill provides for the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology to be the successor of the transformed National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology under § 1 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019. The Bill does not create a new administrative structure for which additional funds are needed. The National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology will continue to have the status of a legal person, whose head is a budget manager for the budget of the Ministry of Education and Science, but who will be able to draw up, implement and report on a delegated budget. Meteorological, hydrological and agrometeorological activities in the Republic of Bulgaria will be more effective and useful for the state and citizens if public relations with the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology are settled permanently by law and Bulgaria will synchronise its practice with most of the countries in Europe. The National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology is intended to be a national autonomous scientific organization and to carry out operational activities in the areas of meteorology, hydrology and agrometeorology. The Commission received 5 opinions from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, from the Union of Scientists in Bulgaria, from the Humbolt Union in Bulgaria, from the National Branch Trade Union "High Education and Science" from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, from the Union of Scientists and from the Agricultural University of Plovdiv. Their representatives attended the meeting and took part in the subsequent discussion. Academic Rewalski presented the opinion of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, noting that the Draft Law did not clarify and resolve issues concerning the status, activity and interaction of the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology with other scientific organizations and entities. The establishment by law of an autonomous scientific organisation to an executive body is not justified. Only two scientists are registered in the register of academic positions and scientific degrees at the National Information and Documentation Centre, which calls into question the scientific capacity of the Institute and its ability to carry out some of the activities set out in the Bill. Without a solution, there are also issues which concern the division of property and the establishment of a part of it which will become the property of the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology. The Director of the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology explained that the scientific potential of the Institute is highly valuable. It employs a large number of scientists whose registration in the register of academic positions and scientific degrees at the National Information and Documentation Centre has been delayed due to technical difficulties. Prof. Brunzov noted that the Institute is working on international projects, has accredited three training programmes in the educational and scientific degree of Doctor and is provided with public access to information about meteorological data. The opinion of the Humboldt Union in Bulgaria was presented by Professor Yuri Kulvacev. He pointed out that he supported the objections and remarks of the opinion of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, stressing that the fragmentation of science and the separation of the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences was not justified. Prof. Diana Petkova, Chairman of the Union of Scientists in Bulgaria, also expressed objections about granting the status of scientific organization of the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology. Assoc. Prof. Lilyana Valcheva, Chairman of the National Branch Syndicate "High Education and Science" (SSC) expressed support for the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology Law. She noted that in this way there is a balance between academic autonomy and the possibility of control by the Minister of Education and Science, and also a proposed solution to a labour and social problem related to the operation of high-mountain weather stations. However, the issue of property ownership used by the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology remains unresolved. In this regard, it proposed setting up a working group with the Committee on Education and Science to clarify the possible solutions of property distribution issues between the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and the Institute. The discussion on the bill included MPs Stanislav Stanilov, Milena Damyanova and Ivo Hristov. They raised the question of what requires the status of the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology to be governed by law, not by a regulation. MPs Stanislav Stanilov and Ivo Hristov expressed objections to the separation of the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology, the destructuring of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and the fragmentation of science. Furthermore, the People's Representative Ivo Hristov noted that it is not clear the assessment of the impact of the bill as a complex of social, economic, financial, organizational and other aspects. National Representative Milena Damyanova objected to the proposal made to the Committee on Education and Science to establish a working group on the ownership of the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology, noting that the Constitution does not provide for such a right of the National Assembly. The Minister of Education and Science answered the questions and remarks. He explained that the reasons for proposing a separate bill for the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology are in several directions. Notes that in the field of meteorology and hydrology there is no special law to be proposed for the status of the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology. The need for a legal framework is also justified by arguments relating to a sufficient implementation of the symbiosis between scientific activity and hydrometeorological service. In addition, it is thus legally permissible to establish the specifics in the activities of the Institute requiring exceptions from the general rules of establishment for budget and administration. The Minister stressed that the interests of Bulgarian society require a national hydrometeorological service, and its status and scientific organization support its capacity. After the discussion was concluded and a vote was held with a result: 10 votes for...... without votes............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Madam President, if you'll allow me to do a procedure for admission to Mr. Petar Nikolov's room, Deputy Minister of Education and Science.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u84	Of course, Mrs. Damyanova. Please vote on the proposal for admission made. Vote 91 MPs: 85 against 1, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Invite Mr. Nikolov to the gym. Mr. Ademov, would you like to introduce us to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Report?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u85	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on a draft Law on the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology, No 002-01-04, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 January 2020. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a regular meeting held on 22 January 2020, discussed and discussed a Draft for the National Institute of Meteorological and Hydrology, No 002-01-04, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 January 2020. The meeting was attended by Mr. Petar Nikolov, Deputy Minister of Education and Science, who presented the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology. In his exhibition Mr. Nikolov explained that in order to ensure the conditions for normal work of the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology a change in the legal framework was made. With the Act on the State Budget for 2019 as from 1 January 2019, the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology from a main unit at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences has been transformed into the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology as a legal person, whose head is the manager of the budget of the Ministry of Education and Science, and with the Decree of the Council of Ministers on 14 January 2019 the Rules on the structure and operation of the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology were adopted. Currently, the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology is a legal entity whose head is a budget manager for the budget of the Ministry of Education and Science. This financing and budgeting mechanism has shown its shortcomings. In this regard, the Draft Law provides that the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology will continue to be a legal person head of which is an officer with a budget to the Minister of Education and Science, but to be able to draw up, implement and take into account a delegated budget. In view of the correctness of climate change data, it is essential to carry out continuous long-term measurement of weather parameters at the same place. For stations where meteorological measurements are carried out, ownership is predominantly private-state. This allows for different claims concerning these properties, this does not guarantee continuous and long-standing measurement of weather parameters at the same place and in this regard limits the state's ability to make policies related to climate change. On this basis, and in view of the status of the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology with the Draft Law, the ownership of the properties of the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology is applied to be a public state. To carry out its tasks, the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology needs specialists working under different and specific working conditions The specific status, which is a combination of scientific organization and of the National Hydrometeorological Service of the Republic of Bulgaria, determines the need for legal regulation to regulate functions and activities, bodies of management, financing, property, organization of work, working time and relationships of the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology with other bodies, organizations, natural, legal persons and others. Meteorological, hydrological, agrometeorological activities in the Republic of Bulgaria will be much more effective and useful for the state and citizens if public relations with the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology are settled permanently with the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology and Bulgaria will synchronize its practice with most of the countries in Europe. A special law in 14 European countries established national meteorological services, including Austria, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Spain, the Netherlands, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Serbia, Finland, the Federal Republic of Germany, Croatia and Switzerland. In conclusion, Mr. Nikolov said that the most important part of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is that the specifics of the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology, especially those stations, which are in difficult reach in the mountains, which, in different seasons under severe weather conditions, are practically inaccessible, provide for the adoption of different legislation than that regulated in the Labour Code. For this reason, we have the notes the Council of Ministers made. At the same time, we have the opinion of the Social Ministry, which supports our proposal that, like other ministries of other cases related to the Ministry of Defence, fire safety and therefore, it is better rather than changing the Labour Code, to make changes to the specialized law. The achievement of all the above objectives is guaranteed by both clear and precise legal regulations and by regulations concerning the design and management of the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology. The implementation of the objectives of the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology Act is in support of the efforts of the Bulgarian state to improve the quality of meteorological services and research in this regard and is based in the context of the policies for the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria and, in particular, on environmental security. The National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology will be able to show flexibility in the allocation of funds from its budget and the existing limitation to pay for the work of scientists and specialists on additional contractual tasks, which currently demotivates staff. This, in turn, will help address the problems in the implementation of the main activities of the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology, given its importance to the state and society and to the retention of highly qualified scientists and specialists working at the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology, and will attract young people, as they will be convinced that they will work in a stable in time structure and have the prospect of career and scientific development. The following discussion was attended by the MPs Hasan Ademov, Georgi Gokov and Rumen Genov. After the end of the discussion and voting with results: 13 votes for....... without votes................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ He proposed to the National Assembly to support a draft Law on the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology, No 002-01-04, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 January 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u86	Thank you, dear Mr. Ademov. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor for speeches. Mr. Tsonkov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u87	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Deputy Minister! I take the floor to argue the position of the BSP for Bulgaria......................... about the Law that we are looking at.... for the establishment of the National Center of Meteorology and Hydrology. In the beginning, I would still like to state our position that we will abstain from supporting this bill for several main reasons. First of all, the biggest argument, the most fundamental that I would like to bring to you, is that we cannot create a new law by settling a particular person. Moreover, we cannot create a law on structure, an authority which is in this case to the Ministry of Education and Science, because this is a precedent in Bulgarian history, in Bulgarian science. I will just say that something like this, although there is no basis for comparison, is the Agricultural Academy, which is also a government body, but we cannot compare the two institutions. Of course, there is a much bigger question here that we are opening with the Bill we are looking at. We've had this conversation before. What is the future of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences? What is the future of Bulgarian science? Because, with colleagues, especially from the Committee on Education and Science, we have repeatedly talked about creating conditions for the state to support the development of science, that we must unite scientific institutions, scientific organisations and thus compete in the European scientific area. But what do we see in this case? Fragmentation of science in Bulgaria. Moreover, we create a precedent with which we open the door to new conditions in which science will develop in which the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences will develop. Because this precedent by cutting live meat from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, as it happens, and bringing out an entire institute from the structure of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences leads to lasting consequences. What if tomorrow, for example, the Metal Science Institute wants to separate? Are we still going to separate it with the main arguments that there was not enough funds that were separated from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, and that is why it should be a separate structural unit to some ministry and thus create another state body and expect that we will develop science? We do not reject and minimize the important role of the Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology. It is important with his work in terms of state policy, state service, all sectors in the economy. But it is important and looking at it as a whole in the structure of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, because neither this institute can without the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences nor vice versa. We must bear this in mind when we talk about research, data processing and science creation and excellence. Something that also impresses us in our proposed bill is that it is not consistent with other laws that act in Bulgaria and which were recently amended by the National Assembly. There's another precedent. How can only this so-called Director General be made an exception to him alone, and it is said in the Law that the four-year term is just beginning. Well, if it isn't creating a law for a particular person, tell him health. Besides, I can't help but mention that the director in question is 65 years old. Under the new rules that we have adopted, we still need to observe the age of holding senior academic positions, as is the position of this Director-General. After everything I've put forward as arguments, we can't support our proposed bill that way. Not to mention that he's not as well-written as he is. He's not that precise. We will make our proposals between first and second readings to try to improve things, although this idea of creating such a law is initially vitiated. We do not adopt, in philosophy, a bill that creates such a structure within, in this case, the Ministry of Education and Science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u88	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mrs. Peeva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u89	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! By the Act on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, as of 1 January 2019, the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology from a main unit at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences was transformed into the Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology as a legal person, whose head is the manager of the budget of the Ministry of Education and Science. In this way it was designated as a national scientific organisation for carrying out operational activities in the field of meteorology, hydrology and agrometeorology, as well as for research, for scientific and applied, innovative and educational activities. The provision of legal services between the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and the newly established unit of the Minister of Education and Science was extremely important to ensure continuity of functions and its overall activities, including the performance of its national important tasks.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology has obligations of national importance under a number of laws and regulations and is the National Hydrometeorological Service of the Republic of Bulgaria and an official representative of the State in the World Meteorological Organisation of the United Nations, the European Centre for Medium-term Weather Forecast Forecasts, the European Organisation for the Development of Weather Co-operators. Priority operational activities are also carried out at the Institute to maintain the functioning of the monitoring system of stations on the territory of the country, necessary for the work of a number of ministries and offices, as well as to ensure the prevention of risks to the population and economy of the Republic of Bulgaria and neighbouring countries. The Law on Administration comprehensively lists the units that can be created in the structure of the executive authority in the absence of a legal provision. This, however, does not fully correspond to the functions and, naturally, to the activities carried out by the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology, especially with regard to the educational and scientific activities and activities related to the development of the academic staff, which are carried out under other special laws, the Law on Higher Education, the Law on the Development of the Academic Chamber in the Republic of Bulgaria. The preservation of the structure of the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology of the Scientific Organization is important, as the combined scientific and operational work achieved over the years has proved positive results in the quality of the work of the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology and should be maintained and developed. In order to ensure the sustainability and conditions for normal work of the NIMH there is a need for development and improvement of the existing legislation in § 1 "6 of the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019," i.e. to grant specific status in combination with an autonomous scientific organisation and the national hydrometeorological service of the Republic of Bulgaria, and a legal person with special status according to the general principles of law can be established only by law. By specific legal provisions, a number of general rules, governed by other laws, for example in terms of status, functions, bodies, organisational structure, staff and others, which is laid down in the Law on Administration, the Law on the Development of the Academic Chamber in the Republic of Bulgaria and others; organization of work and working hours............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ This is not a precedent and does not threaten the unification of the scientific community, as has been quoted so far. For example, the Agricultural Academy was established by law as a national autonomous budgetary organisation to the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Research, for scientific and applied, innovative and educational activities in the field of agriculture and food. The draft law provides that the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology will continue to be a legal person head of which is an authorising officer with a budget to the Minister of Education and Science, but to be able to draw up, implement and take into account a delegated budget, as well as the excess of payments established at the end of the year to be included in its budget for the following year. Those conditions should be established by law. This is also the reason for 2020 the right of the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology to apply a delegated budget, as well as the excess of payments to the NIMH budget established at the end of the year, to be included in its budget for the following year, to be established in art. 100 of the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2020, as this is also extremely important for its participation as a partner in national and international scientific projects with duration and commitment for more than one year. If this rule is not legally settled, similar provisions of art. 100e of the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2020 should be located in each subsequent State Budget Act. If the public relations with the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology are settled permanently with the proposed draft law, Bulgaria will synchronise its practice with many countries in Europe. This is not a fragmentation of scientific activity, as highlighted by the pre-speakers, but, on the contrary, will consolidate the scientific activity intended for a given area so that it is easier to apply. For example, in fourteen European countries national meteorological services have been established, including Austria, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Spain, the Netherlands, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Serbia, Finland, the Federal Republic of Germany, Croatia, Switzerland, with a special Law. Last but not least, the current system does not allow the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology to fully deploy its capacity. Due to insufficient funding in recent years, the NIMH is still understaffed, including highly qualified specialists. The lack of a permanent legal settlement and its financing, guaranteeing its sustainability and stability, will contribute to deepening the problem. This could lead to a lack of quality performance of its activities as a hydrometeorological service of Bulgaria. Specific texts cited so far in a discussion between first and second readings can also be made specific changes. Therefore, I propose that the National Assembly adopt the Act on the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Peeva. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u91	Madam President, honourable Members. I was against the separation of this institute in general, but it's over now. In my opinion, this is the first signal for liquidation of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, however sacramental it may sound to you, but it does not matter in this case either. We are looking at a law at first reading. This law is incompetently written, it looks like a rule book, and it's useless. Indeed, it was done, as a colleague here said, for one person. If he doesn't rework at second reading... There are even parts that violate the Constitution. If he wrote that himself, this director... I do not understand why the minister has taken this fishing line and is exposed in this way, but God with us is, as is said in old Bulgarian. I can't vote for this law. I will refrain and at second reading I will make at least 50% of those things that are written there to be corrected, at least to make it look like something. The National Institute of Hydrology worked beautifully at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and in the assessment of the International Association of European Academy of Sciences there are three times A. Only seven Institutes at the Academy had three times A, i.e. there he worked well. Now that he's out, how's it gonna work? Four times A? This is bullshit! But let the minister pay attention if he then reads the notes from the National Assembly that he has appointed this director in violation of the Law on the Academic Chamber. The director is 65 years old and has no right to be any director, and they appoint him and will have another term! At least don't break the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u92	Thank you, Mr. Stanilov. Replices, coworkers? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u93	Madam President, honourable Members! In the spirit of the issue of setting a precedent with this law for a scientific community, I would like to motivate myself why we will not support this bill at first reading. Where, honourable Members, is the report of the National Agency for Evaluation and Accreditation of Higher Institutes? If it turns out that we created such an institute at the Ministry and then doesn't pass accreditation, what are we going to do about changing the law? Secondly, where are we sending the Institute of Biodiversity and Ecosystem Research and the Natural History Museum of BAS? At Sofia University! Third, this is a door through which the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences will be deleted! This strange approach, which you said earlier, about fourteen countries, bear in mind that these are their national weather services. The problem with the National Weather Service of Bulgaria is that, in addition to the scientific activity, it performs the role and function of the National Weather Service of Bulgaria, something I believe that, if it had to be settled, it had to be settled here in this law. Because it is absolutely unacceptable, non-working and contrary to the specific science to carry out operational activities that the Executive Environment Agency is carrying out. The reasons that you have read very well and which are presented to us say that this institute is of national importance for the environment, for the climate and for the water. It's absolutely true! But I want to tell you what I have faced in my work with this institute in my capacity as Deputy Minister and that what I see in art. 6 and in art. 7 on the bill, it gives me goose bumps. All state bodies and budgetary organisations within the meaning of the Public Finance and Public Enterprises Act shall, upon request, provide the meteorological, hydrological and agrometeorological information available to them free of charge. It's about providing primary data, system data. That's a good thing, that's a good thing. But why didn't you write it down in art. 7, that, contrary to this, the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology performs free expertise and services within the scope of competence at the request of the same state authorities? Why doesn't it say they provide free data? And I'll tell you directly why. The Ministry of Environment and Water shall each year set out 1 million in its budget. lv. for NIMH and 500,000. lv. for the Institute of Oceanology. From now on, honourable Members, anyone who wants to get data from the NIMH must pay for it. Do you know that? This is not reflected in art. 7. That is, we oblige all data to be provided free of charge, but the Institute to provide only services and expertise. If you don't sign up for art. 7, that the data status acquired by international projects, by state authorities, by information from state institutions is granted free of charge to these same institutions, then we are creating a small Frankenstein, which, by the way, has been operating for a long time. Here I would like to open a clamp and say that what the government and the policy of GERB has been doing for a long time with regard to the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, this lack of funds, deliberate behaviour in budgetary and huge deficits and the low percentage of gross domestic product for science, bring the Bulgarian scientific institutes within the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences to such odysic and deviant states, as they provide and have valuable information, which is subject to private interests, not to mention to corporate that lately extremely disturbing trends have been observed in this direction. If this isn't regulated, if this isn't crossed, I say again, we open Pandora's box. We are against such an approach, we are about preserving the status of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and introducing a clear order. I have read the motives, and I conclude that the Institute, honourable Members, needed more flexibility. What more flexibility than the one we've given him over the years?! The State, in addition to being on budget support from departments, from the Ministry of Finance to give 1 million each. lv. and then everyone is forced, including scientific institutes, to buy their data. We, by regulation and directive, are obliged to provide this data to the entire European Union. The Bulgarian institutes and companies in need of data take them from the European Agency, from the European Institutes. It's a complete paradox! This bill confirms this status. What's more, he gets it out of the trunk of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and sends it to a ministry. So I don't know if it takes more argument to convince you that what is being proposed is untenable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u94	Thank you, dear Mr. Kostadinov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mrs. Bachvarova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u95	Madam President, honourable Members! As a man who has considerable experience in the management of the scientific community, I have read with great attention this bill, which is about discussing and adopting at first reading. I personally am pleased to have a broader discussion and to come up with really motives to support the request for the creation of a special law for the scientific institute. In any case, on 1 January 2019 this Institute at the Ministry of Education was established. The decision was absolutely unfounded. One year this institute is working and at some point it turns out that there is no serious motivation in scientists to develop that they cannot do their work and that is why, you see, a special law is needed to enable the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology (NIMH) to be brought to a higher level, equal to the Agricultural Academy and the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. I would like to draw attention to the fact that both laws that we are talking about, firstly, unite scientific institutes in different directions. Secondly, by volume of the presented requirements for law they are much smaller because they have rules of procedure. The rules of procedure are those which create prerequisites for the development of each of the institutes and create rules and order both in terms of budgets, as well as in terms of career development. Now for the decision here to have our own institute law. Since the pre-speakers explained how something similar happened at the Agricultural Academy, I'm offering you an experiment. If for this institute we will have a separate law, I suggest that we have a Law on soils, because there is only one Institute of National, for soils in Bulgaria, and to create prerequisites and explain how we will have scientific advice, how many people, how many will work, how many scientific tasks will be taken into account. To have a law for the Institute of Rose s unique, another does not deal with research in this area, a law for the Institute of Tobacco and so on. It is not serious to present and discuss something that can be settled through the relevant regulations and actions that can be taken within the Institute. The Scientific Council is the one who determines what guidelines the Institute will work in. The scientific community is autonomous in terms of what projects it will develop, how it will develop from now on, what tasks will be with which international communities will work, but not a law as proposed. This bill was not addressed in the Committee on Budget and Finance. I have some very simple questions about how, on the one hand, the Institute is a secondary authorising officer, appropriations, which means that the Ministry, by decree of the Council of Ministers, determines revenue, expenditure, subsidy. And how is it that, unlike all the other minor authorising officers, this will be the unique institute where, if there are more revenues, they will be transferred to next year? That is, we are creating a situation where most revenue goes into next year. But if there's less, I'd like to ask what's going on. Then how will this scientific community be financed, provided that what is at stake as an opportunity for development of the Institute is not implemented? However, revenues are not any constant quantity, they depend on many factors that should be considered when managing the scientific community. It is important to clarify this issue between first and second reading for the simple reason that it can create more problems than facilitate the work of institutes. There are quite serious misunderstandings that, reading the Law, cause some irony on my part about how we understand the work, for example, of the Scientific Council. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u96	Please be quiet, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u97	This scientific council shall be elected for four years by secret ballot. It has extremely important functions. But how come suddenly the Scientific Council with a secret vote is responding within the four-year term?! This just can't be. Some researcher disagrees, for example, with the Institute's policy and it can be recalled because it does not like the management, again with a secret vote. This is extremely frivolous from the point of view of autonomy and the ability to express everyone's opinion about what is happening. Director-General?! Tell me where there's a Director-General? There was a secretary general, there were directors-general until 2000, but now the Director-General of the Institute, I don't understand it either! Director, I get it. The Scientific Councils and the Director-General were elected in 2019. We now extend their mandate. So what's the rush with this law, and they're gonna spend three more years of their term unchanged? I don't understand that. From this point of view in general, why is law necessary? Indeed, there may be some idea in those who wrote the Law that they would thus create conditions for sustainability. Believe me, there will be no resistance to research. There can only be sustainability in the administration of certain processes which, anyway, can be managed by the Ministry and without law. My colleagues said they would abstain, but I am strongly opposed to such a legal opportunity to resolve issues of the scientific community, and I will therefore vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. - What's the line? Here you are, Mr. Kostadinov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u99	Madam President, honourable Members! Mrs. Bachvarova, you rightly pointed out that we in Parliament should approve the structure of an institute, which sounds absurd. But, speaking of the function of General Director, which, I have been a PhD student at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, I see for the first time as a position, you have failed to say that the composition of the Scientific Council and the Director General, notice, colleagues, determine the number and number of Deputy Directors. Excuse me very much, are we going to give money for science or someone else's comfort? There will be a number of deputy general directors, dear Mrs. Bachvarova! That's what you missed.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u100	Thank you, dear Mr. Kostadinov. Second line, come in, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u101	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Professor Bachvarova, I am intrigued by what I have heard here from this tribune, with regard to funding and with regard to the fact that excess income over costs will remain in this so formed institute, which I believe is contrary to the rules. I also believe that there are problems with the Public Finance Act. But here I wanted to ask you: is there an opinion of the Ministry of Finance in this regard, because the Bill has not been seen in the Budget Committee? If there is such an opinion, let us know what it is. Also, is there an impact assessment required under the Law on Regulatory Acts that reflects what funding will be needed, to what extent, for what, because in the middle of the year, the establishment of such an institute, who will provide it with the budget, how will these things happen? If you have an answer, it's good to know the room. Madam President, I also believe that this bill had to be seen in the Committee on Budget and Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u102	Thank you, Mr. Turnover. Is there gonna be a third line? I can't see. For the coat, Mrs. Bachvarova, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u103	Madam President, honourable Members! I have carefully familiarized myself with the impact assessment and there is not a single number of numbers there, neither of numbers nor of what budget there will be. From now on, this exception that we are being offered must indeed be seriously analysed and the Ministry of Finance must have its opinion, because as secondary authorising officers, each of them has a cost ceiling which cannot exceed. Within this cost ceiling, if the subsidy amount does not reach, it may be supplemented but not more than the cost ceiling. Such, at least theoretically, is the possibility to finance, any, a structure as a secondary authorising officer. I therefore believe that, anyway, the ruling majority is ready to support this law, that this must be analysed very seriously. Regarding what my colleague asked as a question: the functions and structure of the Deputy Directors General, they have their functions and structure anyway, and this is determined by rules. They have rules now, but they will have to make new rules, which will determine them, but it is adopted by the Scientific Council. This is a decision that must be taken by the scientific community which functions will distribute, because it is the director who is subordinate to the scientific community and not vice versa. He may have his functions as a material-responsible person, but on how science is managed, things are completely different. There the autonomy and freedom of expression, there indeed what is done as a scientific activity, is leading the autonomy of everyone who is in this institute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u104	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. Any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see. I put to the first vote a bill for the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology, No 002-01-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 January 2020. They voted 129 MPs: 81, against 32, abstention 16. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Damyanova, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u105	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I am making a procedural proposal to extend the deadline for proposals between first and second readings on the newly adopted bill for the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology at three weeks.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u106	Thank you, dear Mrs. Damyanova. Please vote on the procedure so made. Vote 113 MPs: for 107, against 4, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the last item of today's agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLULTURE COUNTERVAIL AND DEVELOPMENT LAW. Implemented by the Council of Ministers on 28 January 2020. Report of the Committee on Culture and Media. [[Noise.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u107	Madam President, honourable Members! [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u108	Colleagues, please be quiet in the hall. It's too loud.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u109	Access procedure on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please allow Rumen Dimitrov to be admitted to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Milkova. Please vote on the procedure so made. Vote 101 MPs: 96 against 4, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Invite the guest to the hall. Please, Mrs. Milkova, introduce us to the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u111	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection and Development of Culture, No 002-01-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 January 2020. At a regular meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media, held on 20 February 2020, a Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Protection and Development of Culture was discussed. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Culture: Rumen Dimitrov On behalf of the importer The bill was presented by Mr. Rumen Dimitrov. The bill aims to introduce a service of 1605 "Registration of Cultural Organizations" and "Registering of Cultural Organizations" in accordance with the Law on the limitation of administrative regulation and administrative control of business. A period of 10 working days shall be laid down to remedy irregularities of applications for entry in the information register of cultural organisations. At present, such a time limit is laid down in Regulation No H-1 of the Minister of Culture of 2007 on the information register of cultural organisations, and applicants must within three days of receipt of the notification of deficiencies and completeness to remove them. The procedure for the entry in the register of cultural organisations is entirely regulated at a sub-legal level. The Law provides for the Law on Protection and Development of Culture to lay down texts governing the grounds for entry and deletion. The props of the application for entry and for voluntary deletion from the register, the circumstances to be entered in the register and the possibility to submit applications by electronic means are specified. No state fees shall be collected for the registration in the register of cultural organisations and for the deletion thereof. There are currently 1680 cultural organizations. The aim of legislative amendments and additions is to improve the quality of the proposed administrative service. Monitoring, analysis and evaluation of the activities of state cultural institutes, state cultural institutes of national importance, as well as Bulgarian cultural institutes abroad are also introduced. The order to carry out this activity will be governed by a regulation of the Minister of Culture. People's representatives Vecdi Rashidov, Ivan Chenchev, Todor Bajchev and Krasimir Velchev took part in the discussion. The representatives of the Ministry of Culture answered the questions asked. Following a vote, MPs from the Committee on Culture and Media unanimously proposed to the National Assembly by 16 votes to adopt a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection and Development of Culture, No 002-01-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 January 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-26.u112	Thank you, dear Mrs. Milkova. I'm opening the debate. Colleagues, you have a say in this. I don't see any speeches. [[Reply by MP Vejdi Rashidov.]] It's all unanimous, Mr. Rashidov. Then, fellow Members, we shall proceed to the vote. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Protection and Development of Culture, No 002 01 8 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 January 2020. Voted 103 MPs: 103, against and abstention. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, that was the last point of the day. Tomorrow, February 27th, regular plenary session at 9:00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
