ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u1	[[PHONE RINGING]] There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Dear colleagues! On 13 April 2020, a draft decision amending and supplementing the National Assembly's Decision on work during the emergency situation was adopted by a decision of the National Assembly submitted by Christian Vigenin and a group of MPs. The draft decision was made available to the MPs of their service e-mails yesterday. In view of the fact that the draft decision provides for an amendment and an addition to the special rules which the National Assembly applies in its work during the emergency situation and on the grounds of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the following additional item be included in the Programme for Work of the National Assembly for the extraordinary plenary sitting on 14 April 2020: Draft Decision amending and supplementing the Decision on the work of the National Assembly during the emergency situation announced by decision of the National Assembly. Importers: Christian Vigenin and a group of MPs, and I propose that it become point one and the remaining points in the Programme be renumbered accordingly. Please, voting mode. Vote 117 MPs: 111, against 3, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, I will introduce you to the draft laws and decisions from 4 to 13 April 2020: Draft decision amending the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Importers: Plamen Hristov and a group of MPs assigned to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Draft Decision amending and supplementing the National Assembly Decision of 6 April 2020. Importers: Krasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs withdrawn from the importers. Draft Decision amending and supplementing the Decision on the work of the National Assembly during the emergency situation announced by decision of the National Assembly. Exporters: Christian Vigenin and a group of MPs. Draft decision to impose a moratorium on the Investment Expenditure Project, the acquisition of basic fighting equipment for the construction of battalion combat groups of the Mechanized Brigade, adopted by Decision of the Forty-fourth National Assembly of 8 June 2018, and updated Project for investment expenditure, the acquisition of a multifunctional modular patrol ship for the naval forces, adopted by decision of the Forty-fourth National Assembly of 19 July 2018. Importers: Plamen Hristov and a group of MPs allocated to the Defence Commission. Messages: On 6 April 2020, a Annual Report on the state of health of citizens and the implementation of the National Health Strategy for 2020 was received by the Ministry of Health in the National Assembly. The report was made available to the Committee on Health and is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. In the National Assembly on the basis of art. 113, para. 3 of the Public Finance Act received reports on the implementation of the Programme Budgets for 2019 by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications and the Ministry of Culture. The reports are made available to the Budget and Finance Committee and to the relevant portfolio committees and are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Moving on to point one: PROJECT OF A CHANGE DECISION AND COMPLIANCE OF THE DECISION ON THE WORK OF THE PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTURING IN TIME OF THE EMPLOYMENT EXPLAINED BY A DECISION OF THE PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTURING. Mr. Vigenin, are you going to present the motives? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! You've seen our motivation in the Project that's been distributed. I'll say a few words in addition to that. We believe it is understandable that, at the beginning of the pandemic and the declared emergency situation, the management of the National Assembly, especially that of GERB, which still bears the direct responsibility for organizing the activities of the National Assembly, had its concerns about how the activities will be organised so as to preserve the safety of the MPs. It was not a coincidence that a special mode of work of the National Assembly was introduced, I would say, despite our opposition, but we have accepted the arguments that the security of the MPs is first of all, and together with the need to be able to vote on key laws relating to the state of emergency. We saw over the past week, as well as the week before that, and especially today, that we gradually put in place a regime that succeeds... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u3	Guys, can I ask you to be quiet for a second? Take your seats.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u4	...which we'll obviously have to get used to. It guarantees the normality of the National Assembly to a large extent, and in this regard we believe that based on the experience we have in the last two weeks and today, we can safely restore parliamentary control. We propose that it be implemented, as is the case on Friday, as the registration, as we have accepted by our rules, is carried out with the electronic system within an hour before the beginning of the meeting. No less important argument, of course, is that in recent weeks laws have been adopted that give very broad powers to the executive. We believe that control over the executive power is necessary not only within the framework of the written control, which in the last two weeks has proven to be significantly ineffective, but oral control, which will enable the Bulgarian citizens we represent in the Bulgarian Parliament to be aware of various aspects of the activities of the respective ministries. The reason for this gives me the fact that, from the written questions submitted in this period, after the decision of the National Assembly to limit parliamentary control only to written, perhaps more than two thirds of them are directly related to the state of emergency. If, by analogy, we assume that the National Assembly focuses on the bills relating to the state of emergency, this should also apply to the parliamentary control relating to the state of emergency. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u5	Excuse me, Mr. Vigenin. Could you stop while we still have enough silence in the room so we can hear each other? We'll just wait for the MPs after all...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u6	Perhaps some of the MPs know in advance how they will vote and do not want to hear the arguments, but I still think that the arguments are necessary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u7	You may begin.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u8	I was almost at the end of my presentation to stress that it is not normal for the government, the Prime Minister, to inform us more about the various aspects of the emergency situation through emergency briefings on various televisions, including private ones, but not to come to Parliament to provide precisely here, in the National Assembly, information about what is happening in the country, what is planned, what is to come, including what would we, the MPs expect, to support their work to deal with the pandemic and the emerging economic crisis. In this regard, I call on the National Assembly to support our proposal in order to ensure another step towards returning normality to the work of this institution and normality in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u9	Could you still present the draft decision, Mr. Vigenin?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u10	Yeah. "Project" DECISION amending and supplementing the Decision on the work of the National Assembly during the emergency situation, announced by decision of the National Assembly (GB, SG No. 22 from 2020) (University) DV, No. 26 of 2020, as amended. DV, No. 29 and 33 from 2020) The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED The decision on the work of the National Assembly during the emergency situation announced by a decision of the National Assembly shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 sentence second is deleted; 2. A new t. is created. 2: "2." During the emergency situation, parliamentary control of oral questions and questions shall be carried out every Friday from 9.00 to 14.00, with only the national representative asking or asking and the relevant member of the Council of Ministers present at the hearing of the questions, questions and answers in the Chamber. 3. The remaining points shall be renumbered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u11	Thank you, too. I'm opening the debate. Honourable Members, you have the floor for speeches. Mr. Stoinev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u12	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Of course, it is extremely important in a parliamentary republic to have parliamentary control as well. Whether we are in an emergency situation or not, it is normal for the government to be controlled in some way so that there are no such mistakes. Gaff is for example today's press conference of the Managing Authority of the Fund Fund. I am convinced that half of you here do not know what this fund of funds was created in the distant year 2016. Why, honourable Members, do you not know what the fund of funds means? Because so far they haven't done anything. Zero! There's not a penny of that money that's made it to the real economy. For four years financial intermediaries have been selected, where there should have been five financial intermediaries, and I think only two have been selected. And in order not to become such a blunder as this morning it was explained how some money will be redirected, how the economy is supported, if there was parliamentary control, could Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev answer what this fund is doing and is there any point in the existence of such funds, given that we have an emergency situation. Because, as far as we understand, the idea for now is 200 million from the Operational Programme "Competitiveness" to be redirected to the Bulgarian Development Bank, then you understand that when the time comes for revival, for assistance, for real actions of the Bulgarian economy, we will de facto not have the funds. Therefore, if there was this parliamentary control, such a gaffe that was made this morning, could have been avoided. But if you from GERB contradict me and tell me today: "Stoinev, you are not right" my request is this: to go out and say what for four years the fund of funds has been completed, notice, in the case of 327 million. lv. from the Operational Programme "Competitiveness". Zero! We therefore offer you the following: let us restore parliamentary control so that there are no such blunders and have real control over the government's actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u13	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Prodanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will use the floor to say that, in relation to the emergency situation under parliamentary control, unacceptable things are beginning to happen. What do I mean? Few statistics: only we in the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Socialist Party have more than 65 questions that have been asked in the period after 26 March, and 90% of these issues are related to the state of emergency, with the measures, especially the sanitary and medical measures that concern our voters. Because, fellow Members of this House, we must not forget that we have appeared in elections, people have voted for us to defend their interests. During an emergency situation, this role of ours and this task of ours are increasing two, three times as much. How can I explain myself personally or explain to one of my constituents who has been bothering me with some problem that I asked a question on March 20th, and today it is April 14th and we have not yet received an answer to this question? After all, colleagues, the state of emergency is one or two months... as long as it takes, we cannot, in the meantime, get an answer to a simple question. He's not targeting us. He, as I said, is aimed at all those people who have chosen us, who have sent us here, who are affected and waiting for the answer to these questions. So, fellow Members, I call on you to stand at the heights that we need to be on, taking into account the safety instructions. The fact that there will be one MP and one minister in the Chamber fully satisfies these measures, but in this way we will meet the expectations that Bulgarian citizens and Bulgarian society have for us. The other thing that is important, colleagues, we are the people here in this room, it doesn't matter whether on the left or on the right, which we have to protect the parliamentaryism and authority of the institution where we work, because there is no one else to protect it, and when we are the ones who in every way undermine the authority of the institution, no one else can do it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u15	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov. Are there any lines? Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman, Members of the National Assembly! Colleagues of the Left, I will not question your arguments. I was impressed that so far three of you have spoken, two more are preparing to make a statement, however, if you notice, and if you listen to them, they are the same. I will end with the thought of one of the world's greatest thinkers Confucius: one who has no short thought has a long thought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u17	Thank you. Mr. Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u18	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear colleague Prodanov, you have missed something that the information eclipse is not partial. Not only do we not get answers to our questions within the deadline provided by the Law, I also address Mrs Karayancheva here, but the text of the questions themselves asked more than half a month ago has not even been published on the website of the National Assembly so that the Bulgarian voters can see at least what questions are being asked when they obviously cannot see the answers to these questions. There is nothing on the website of the National Assembly where Bulgarian citizens could be informed! The questions were brought up with an entry number in the National Assembly's Business Office more than a month ago, but the website of the National Assembly is dark India. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u19	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Third line. Ms. Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u20	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I want to tell Mr. Prodanov that he is wrong about not having any answers to any questions. I just want to say that at the moment.. until 3 April, there are 47 questions asked, from 4 to 14 April there are 58 questions. By the end of the week you will have all your questions answered by Friday. So do not mislead the House and the Bulgarian voters. There is no significant difference between oral and written parliamentary control [[BSP comments for Bulgaria]] But in my speech, I will give the arguments for this and I will tell you what the problem is.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u21	Thank you. Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u22	Thank you. I'll start backwards. Dear Mrs. Karayancheva, make the reference more carefully and you will see that there are questions asked from March 26th by MPs from BSP, to whom it is not answered. Regarding what you said there were questions on 4 April, which are not answered at the moment, we are the 14th, and according to the Rules, we have a seven-day period within which written questions must be answered. Even if what you're saying is true, and that's true, and we already have a delay here. About what you said, Mr. Popov. All the facts you mentioned about the fact that there are questions that have been asked, which have not been published on the National Assembly website, that there is a delay that we have talked about, makes me more and more think that the only reason and the only task to create this emergency was to close the parliament, to seal the opposition's mouth and as little as possible to hear the different opinion. What we're seeing right now is that the quarantine situation is becoming more and more militarized, which we don't think is right. What we want is dialogue, discussion and control. So because of this I think, Mr Popov, and more and more I think that the only measure of this emergency was to close the National Assembly. About what Mr. Atanasov said. Mr. Atanasov, maybe you're right, but in the end, since we make reasonable arguments and you don't hear them, we can repeat them two times and three times until, God forbid, someone hears them and rethinks your position. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u23	Thank you. We continue with the speeches. Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In support of having parliamentary control, I will say a few things. Firstly, we have adopted measures for Parliament's work in a state of emergency and I do not see a problem on Friday that the people's representative who has asked a specific question will come here and be answered and that the regime will not be so full as it is not complete in its regular situation when the National Assembly is meeting at its normal pace. But since there are alarming information in the country, and power does not pay attention to all the questions that people ask, or does not raise them at all, and there are many such questions, I will tell you, for example, that I have information about lots with the already known vaccine BCW. They are currently standing and not being delivered to the counterparties, and one of the counterparties, let's say, is UNICEF. Our information is that these accounts with BCW are not delivered to counterparties outside the borders of Bulgaria, and at the same time the same company is trading only in masks. To this question we need to get an answer here is the place, because it has not risen anywhere in society. For this reason, and not only, parliamentary control is a very important instrument. Again, I say to you: in a regime in which the national representative and the minister will enter into dialogue on a specific matter, I see no problem with this happening here, from the stands of the National Assembly. So what we offer is quite reasonable. I think you all understand the importance of most of the questions that have been asked. Mrs. Karayancheva, President of the Bulgarian Parliament a moment ago, said there were 47 questions entered, what date was it? [[Reply.]] Okay. Then another 57. Dear Ms. Karayancheva, how many of these 47 questions are answered? How many of the next 57 questions will be answered in a state of emergency? If the MPs have considered it necessary that the questions they have asked are important for the Bulgarian society, it is therefore the place for them to receive publicity. I am convinced that, of these, the first time 47, and the second time, 57 questions that make over 100 will not be answered at all. I think it is appropriate that everyone who has considered it necessary to ask a specific question gets an answer, and that is for the current situation at the date of asking the question. So I'm asking you very much to accept that we return parliamentary control on Friday and somehow this issue will enter its mermaid. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u25	Thank you. - What's the line? Mr. Mareshki, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u26	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Chenchev, from everything I've heard so far, and rather I see, because almost nothing interesting I hear, once again you want to show us how you can absolutely aimlessly spend valuable plenary time in parliament. The question for us from the will is absolutely clear. Anyone in the National Assembly may draw conclusions to have or not to have parliamentary control. I think that anyone, if he is well prepared, can make all the arguments with one speech, and not repeat ourselves. So here I see more of another attempt to waste parliamentary time and therefore I urge you to give up. Otherwise, I can give you arguments, even if there is parliamentary control and you come here, except that they will show you on the TV, the minister may not answer you as you wish and this will be even more spent time. The more important argument is that if you feel yourself useless at this time of crisis, when everyone can give much more to deal with the crisis, I do not see why we should drag the government into this. You know that at the moment, the time of ministers is much more important to combat specifically the health aspect of the problem and the economic consequences of it. So I consider it absolutely useless to waste the time of the ministers, too, since any question can be duly asked in writing and the answer received. And then it stays, you can see, can be published through the media, through your websites and so on. My request is to put an end to this circus, vote on everyone's opinions and move forward on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u27	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. More lines? I won't. Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mareshki, it seems to me that you are demeaning the role of the MP. The work of the National Representative, who is broadcast by the Bulgarian people, is to ask questions when he is given the time. And neither you nor any of this House, including the parliament's leadership, can stop this process. We are in a state of emergency, there are worrying questions and the ministers must give their answers. On the other hand, you are right about the fact that this issue might not have taken place or we should not have spoken so much if all the representatives of the parliamentary groups' leadership had spoken, said their opinion, then moved on to the vote. Regarding whether you judge who is useless, who is useful, because from this tribune there were just quoted philosophers, and I will give you a quote regarding your words. A philosopher said so: The faithful words are not beautiful, and the beautiful are not true. So be careful how you talk. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Mrs. Yotova, come in. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u30	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Mareshki, dear Mr. Bikov, I mention you for a reason, because my speech is in connection with the fact that I am a man of art and my whole life I have been dealing seriously with dramatic art, music, and I have infinite respect for the scene. I want to tell you that personally, I have absolutely no need to show up on TV or have any kind of circus. By the way, let's think about who's been doing circuses the last few weeks we've had gatherings here. After all, we are a parliamentary republic that must not be forgotten. Look at the social networks, people have so many questions. For example, in the culture sector, these people who hope to receive some rewards because they are not currently working, they absolutely don't know... Yes, the minister said to the Ministry of Culture, so, so. They don't know. They ask me: do they have to present a diploma? These are questions to be asked specifically to be answered. Indeed, the abolition of parliamentary control is becoming an absolute neglect of the fact that we are a parliamentary republic, even more damaging the rating of the Bulgarian Parliament, which you very well know is not very high. The fact that we want to show up on TV and do circuses is not serious. Believe this is absolutely mandatory for a parliamentary republic. Otherwise, you know what the other word is and it's called dictatorship. Thank you. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Yotova. Are there any lines? Here's a line for you, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u32	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Yotova, I specifically address you because I personally am not a great admirer of your art and I do not know how big and famous it is and if you do not need to appear on TV. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Forgive my ignorance, I don't mean to offend you. It's just not everyone has to be a fan of everyone. I keep saying that what you're doing right now is just to show yourself again on TV and it's absolutely pointless. It is absolutely certain that parliamentary control is important and it must exist, only who has ever foreseen in their lives that we will face this invisible enemy? Who did he see coming? Whose life is normal? And the most important of all of our parliamentary activities is parliamentary control?! In our opinion, more important are the issues of the revival of the economy, the adoption of laws that help people to live well. My request is that we really end this thing, which we now define as a circus. You can also look at your fans on the Internet how they define it. They certainly don't support you. I'll give you more data in a moment. Be a little more serious, don't spin around and as President Trump calls their opposition nothing-doing, don't turn into a nothing-doing opposition in Bulgaria. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u33	Thank you. Mr. Budinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u34	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mrs. Yotova and all my colleagues in the opposition, I would like to address you and tell you about what Mrs. Yotova said about this tribune and that you are opposition does not mean that you must constantly be counter and try to bring in some antithose. I want to tell you, Mrs. Yotova, that parliamentary control will not give much more information about artists. All this they can see on the Social Ministry website, turn to social workers, and also to the Ministry of Culture. It is very easy to sit here and talk from the stands, but during this time we with Mr. Hristo Mutafchiev from the Union of Artists in Bulgaria, with Mr. Banov, Mrs. Denitsa Sacheva and I kept working, meeting, talking to the artists and seeing what the best reliefs and what the best, benefits is not the word...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u35	Gestures!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u36	Measures.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u37	...measures to take to help them. I want to tell you that in all spheres there is work and more and more relief and more things for people. At the moment, you see that new things come out every day that are socially addressed to citizens. And that's very good. Don't tell the white black again. I do not expect you to make any commendation to us, although all ministries are working at the moment with full force. I just hope you're not in the way. If you can't help, don't interfere. Thank you for your attention. [[General applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u38	Thank you, Mr. Budinov. Is there a third line? No. It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u39	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Look, we don't necessarily want to be... even though........................................................................................ On the contrary, these are the normal things that excite people. Let us not remind ourselves that independent artists were called at one point the Marginals. [[Reply from MP Evgeni Budinov.]] And yet what can I say?! That's crazy stuff! Parliamentary control must exist, even if the good things are said. In the initial measures that we had proposed, we had a point where it was those people who were so-called independent artists. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Yotova. Mr. Mareshki on behalf of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u41	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm just gonna use the speakers a little while ago. Mr. Budinov, they're not always against it. For the planes, they were for the planes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u42	Why are you lying?! The whole group voted against.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u43	Now to this liar who replicated me, I've prepared myself and will read to him...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u44	Please, Mr. Mareshki, continue with the statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u45	I'll read it to you now. Now I'm going to tell you the proof of all those liars trying to say that others are liars. I'm talking about the BSP about the audience that doesn't know. I'll read you the statement of your leader.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u46	Show the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u47	And I'll show you the vote, yes. Dear colleagues, yesterday's Volya Party fulfilled another promise made to the people. We have submitted a draft decision on a moratorium on spending more than 2 billion more. lv. for military equipment. We want this money to be invested in people's health and incomes as well as in the economy. We need them now to get through the crisis less painfully. I will just remind you that in the summer of 2018, when the decisions on this expenditure were voted out, you all united, as you did for the airplanes, and with a gentle hand you approved this next robbery by the people. I won't recall how much the minimum pension and minimum wage were then. You all know these statistics. Now we need every government lev for health care, for the income of the people who lose their jobs to save the economy. I know what you're going to say right now: but we didn't think this crisis would come at that time. Here's what I'm going to say: you didn't think about the coronavirus. Naturally, no one expected it, but you knew well that Bulgaria was in line on incomes in the European Union and that we didn't fulfill one of our basic promises for raising minimum pensions, and therefore we leave a large part of the Bulgarian people to be miserable and to expect help. That, I suppose, you knew. Yet you voted over 2 billion. lv. for jets. You voted more than 2 billion. lv. for other hardware. I've been telling you for three years that this is a wrong policy. I've been saying for three years that we're giving valuable capital to foreign countries, and much richer countries. I have endured all sorts of things, as in this case, irony, mockery that I didn't take my pills, spiteful remarks, mobilize your party trolls on social networks to write all kinds of shit, tolerate your hysterical reactions, because I knew that I was right and that there would come a day when you would look inadequate in the eyes of the people. I have told you a hundred times the words of the great General Manerheim of Finland when money is spent on defence, namely: when we create such a level of life for our fellow countrymen that they will be willing to protect him. You know that we also sent an open letter to President Trump, who is not obliged to know how the Bulgarian people live to ask him to break this deal. Now other colleagues are obliged, because they are ruling and have to defend the minister's thesis, they will also make a reply and it is like a major remedy: but Volya also has in his program modernization of the army, and now you don't want weapons. I will repeat for the nth time the Vola is not against Bulgaria having a modern army, but billions of dollars for this must be spent only when the people live well when they have access to healthcare and medicines, when companies develop, wages grow, pensioners drive decent old age. Only then can we think of luxurious military toys, so I'll ask you to spare yourself that line. I'm looking at these days the Socialists have started to talk like us from the Volks, but all they do is talk and it's like we all forgot how they voted. Here I am obliged to remind you of what Trump calls his opposition, namely the nothing-doing party. Well, we have one here in our parliament, too. Since you clearly do not remember, I have now extracted what Cornelia Ninova has said about this issue: "Dear Madam President" and so on, I see that speculation is beginning, and so I would like to tell you one thing to be clear. Mr. Mareshki knows it best. I'm gonna cut that short for you. He also knows it without deciphering the transcripts. This is about our desire to de-secrate the transcripts before the President's meeting. And then, and today, BSP says the following: we are about the modernization of the Bulgarian army under the following conditions: first, not to exceed 2% of gross domestic product. The projects presented to us by Mr. Karakachanov do not exceed 2% of the gross domestic product Second, to engage the Bulgarian defence industry and the Bulgarian economy along the lines of offset and industrial co-operation, similar to what Romania did. In the projects presented to us by Mr. Karakachanov, there are such commitments - therefore our second condition has already been met. That is why under two conditions set by the BSP for Bulgaria and I hope that no one from the BSP for Bulgaria will have the right to use the word "liar" when someone tells them these things - we will support these projects. Please stop speculation! [[Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] ............................................... Dear colleagues, who continue to say that someone is lying when they say that you voted for....................... there is also a picture in the back, which is now for explainable reasons I cannot show you that you all voted for................................................... There's no way I'm joining you now. You're trying to follow in our footsteps, but people remember who's had what positions not since yesterday, but consecutively three years. You talk, but you don't act, and it's been your style for a long time. That's why to me you are the nothing-doing part of the opposition in this Parliament. Read the comments on my Facebook account and you will see how many supporters of yours write to me that in this crisis they are ashamed of your actions because they are inadequate because they do not lead to unity. Your political stubbornness is now giving you bad advice. It's the same with your president. It's been so long since we've seen a politician crash. Total silence for these billions, total silence for whether there is speculation in fuel. I don't even want to comment on it anymore. I'm going to recall one of our researches from when you voted for the planes. Only 3% of Bulgarian citizens approved such a cost, only 3! Today will surely be zero. I will quote in the end a very high-ranking and influential world leader because you obviously don't want to hear what I'm saying: now is not the time to continue manufacturing and trading weapons, spending huge amounts of capital that should be used to treat people and save human life. Now I have to tell you who's saying this thing, because from what I saw in the media, I realized that I'm almost the only one who marked that thing. This is what Pope Francis said on Sunday at his Easter address, honourable colleagues. I will repeat this to you because it is very important, albeit brief: now is not the time to continue the production and trade of weapons, spending huge amounts of capital that should be used to treat people and save human life. In the words of the Pope himself, we expect the Bulgarian Patriarch to join him. I have nothing more to say. We of the will have made our choice for us. I hope you will do the same and decide whether you are with us and your people or not. People will remember it and they'll mark it. In fact, if you want me to quote what a colleague of yours told a colleague of ours - a BSP colleague has complained that the grandmothers crack them up to ask them why they support the deal on these planes. So your role and actions have not gone unnoticed and with false, high-pitched phrases and speeches from this tribune you cannot fool Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u48	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. Mr. Budinov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u49	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The subject of culture and art has been affected, and I am very sensitive about it. On the one hand, I am pleased and I think that there should be more debates on this topic and there should be more talking, and that is why I took the floor again to thank all people of art, all free artists, all artists and artists, who are also not easy at the moment, but nevertheless have an understanding of the crisis and stand on the side of the government and see all the measures that have been made, assess that Bulgaria is in one of the top places at least victims and at least infected with COVID-19, unlike you, colleagues from BSP. I want to say to the people, let them not forget us artists at this moment. This pandemic will one day end, and I hope that the halls will be filled again, and you will be able to enjoy us, because without the audience we are the actors, we are nothing. I would also like to remind you that the people who are in state in theatre continue to receive their salaries as well as those who work in the field of education, which is the priority of this government. I also want to tell you something else: it is good at times like this, and not only at moments like this, that we are people of art, that we unite and be together, not that we distinguish ourselves. For me, culture and art are above politics. I don't know about you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u50	Thank you, Mr. Budinov. Here you go, Mr. Chenchev, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u51	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Budinov! Firstly, you did not speak at all on the topic and on what we are debating, namely whether there should be parliamentary control on a proposal from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. Secondly, at the last session in parliament last week, it was the opposition that spoke about the measures in relation to independent artists, the people with free professions. Until then, your government had no measure in this direction and after the opposition used its instrument, namely to propose constructively, to pay attention to this failure of the government, it triggered and took some measures. So I remind you, in order to be aware of the role of the opposition, and not to tell us whether the opposition should speak, should not speak, or what the opposition is interested in. The opposition is interested in all issues concerning the Bulgarian population. This interests the opposition and protects the interests of the Bulgarian population. You say there's no politics in culture. That's right, I won't. There shouldn't be in sports, there shouldn't be in health care, there shouldn't be in education, but you, because you're part of management, are constantly doing things to please the power you use. The people see because discontent, and you just don't want to have an instrument called parliamentary control. By the way, why do you mind having parliamentary control on Friday? What are emergency measures? We are not going to break the distance, we are not going to break what we have to do during the state of emergency, just a representative of the people will ask a question to a minister. Nothing more, but obviously there's something disturbing about you, and everyone in the opposition knows why.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Here you go, Mr. Simov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u53	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Budinov, I'm afraid you should choose one of the two roles of either being a spokesperson of the government or being a spokesperson of the actors because the two together cannot exist. I do not believe that anyone has authorized you to speak on behalf of all artists in Bulgaria, at least because I see many opinions that in no way cover the pink picture of great folk and cultural support that you describe to the cabinet. I ask you in such a situation not to abuse your status in this way. At the very least, this impressed me in a previous statement of yours, you sent the actors to the social workers. We're not talking about socially weak people, we're talking about actors. At the moment, that was an insult to your community. It's like we have to treat them like they're socially poor because for a long time, about a month and a half, your government didn't think of them at all. It wasn't until finally, when the tensions began, that they decided to pay attention to these people. Where were your zealous statements when culture became the first victim of the state of emergency when the theaters first closed when the Philharmonics closed? Where were your concerned speeches then? Why weren't you such an actor's spokesperson then? Then you stood there and kept your mouth shut. Now you are trying to abuse, and on a subject that is extremely important. Even for you it is important to have parliamentary control, because you can have the stands to describe these incredible successes that you claim are shared by a large part of the actors, which is not the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u54	Thank you. Here's a line, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u55	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Budinov, honourable colleagues! I'd like to land the emotion a little bit. There was, Mr. Budinov, a concrete proposal of my esteemed Mr. Vigenin. Seven members of the Left spoke on it, five members of the ruling majority spoke on it, and when so much started to speak, the topic usually started to run away, the army intervened, culture intervened. I too, Mr. Budinov, can talk about culture quite a bit, as I have been chairman of the Committee on Culture and Media, so it is also very dear to me. That's not the point right now. The subject is what Mr. Vigenin suggested. My request is, I will join Mr. Mareshki, cast a vote to see if this point is accepted or rejected. Seven people have already spoken, five people have spoken from the ruling majority. That's my request, okay?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u56	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. You have the floor, Mr. Budinov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u57	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Cheincedzhiev, I'm sorry, Chenchev! [[Noise in the room.]] No, it's a lapsus. You say and again twist the truth that we almost heard the opposition and then we decided to take measures for free artists. I want to tell you that while you were saying these things, it was already very serious. I guess you didn't hear what I said in my last speech. Then I thanked Hristo Mutafchiev, Minister Banov and Minister Sacheva. During that time, hard work was being done. There is still work to be done, as in other areas, in order to have social policies towards citizens at this difficult time. Unlike you, people act, not just talk. You misunderstand me. I didn't say: there is no politics in art and in culture. I told you, for me, art and culture are above politics. Open your ears and listen carefully to what we say, and do not twist people's words as well as mine to play with petty political tricks. Dear Mr. Simov, I have never experienced myself as a spokesperson of the government, but on the contrary. This is a personal opinion that I express, and I believe that these measures and this government are working very well. It overlaps with much of the opinion of my fellow artists because I constantly communicate with them and see it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u58	Thank you, Mr. Budinov. In the manner of conduct and then a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u59	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members, I am taking a procedure in the manner of conduct because, Mr. Chairman, it is unacceptable that a MP, an artist who has probably studied at VITEZ some art of rhetoric or speech, of speech, of speech, of doing lapsus absolutely deliberately, in order to insult a colleague, whether from another parliamentary group, and that you remain silent. Mr. Budinov has several speeches in parliament and I think there is an opportunity to prepare himself so that he does not make such mistakes, and if he is not sure in the name of any MP, he may simply not mention it as they do, by the way, many colleagues. You do not have to know all the MPs, but it is imperative that you respect them and it is unacceptable that you leave this with impunity, at least with a remark, because I, making lapsuss, Mr President, can come up with names of any representative, with which, believe me, Parliament's rating will collapse even more than it is right now. So my request to you, Mr. President, is to impose a punishment, at least for......... or warning.............. or something that you see fit. Someone, albeit minimal, to make it clear that in this House no one can insult fellow MPs, ministers, prime ministers, presidents and any other people in the state power. Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u60	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. The President, whoever he is, could not have guessed the speechable MP's lapsus, could not have guessed that. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria: "Make a comment to him! "]] I don't know how you're gonna take it, but I do lapsus here, too, and you've been paying attention to me yourself. In the manner of conduct, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As I see what the aim of colleagues from GERB is, obviously, these debates to belittle them again and again come to sharp lines so that this can really get into the media, not that there is no room for parliamentary control. Here, Mr. Chairman, a merely purposefully insulted the MP, even the speaker himself just said that this was not a lapsus, but he did it on purpose. I think it is extremely ugly when MPs here allow themselves in such a way to insult our colleagues, all the more so that Mr. Mareshki and you also kept quiet when he almost purely subjectively expressed himself in relation to the qualities of other fellow MPs of ours. I think this is unacceptable, I think it is ugly, I think GERB has given a tone precisely in this way to behave in Parliament in a way in which you tolerate such speeches and refuse to punish MPs who are really trying to insult their colleagues. It is completely unacceptable for a European country and it is truly shameful, Mr President, that you are waiting for the opposition to remind you instead of immediately reacting! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u62	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. I think we've exhausted the personal explanation, Mr. Chenchev. Actually, it was enough.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u63	At least let him come out and apologize!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u64	Let's move on with the speeches.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u65	In order to keep the good tone, I'm going to give up the personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u66	Thank you. I appreciate that. We'll continue with the speeches, colleagues. Mrs. Ninova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u67	Dear Bulgarian citizens, the state of emergency is a test for every Bulgarian, regardless of his post, his position and every Bulgarian family. But a state of emergency does not mean out of control. Today, the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria and we want parliamentary control to be restored. And what have we heard from the government? To want to restore normality to them is antithesis! We're almost aggressors who want something out of the ordinary! To have parliamentary control is normal, not antithesis! But it seems that in our country lately it is modern and constantly quoted different philosophers, mostly externally we have a very nice Bulgarian fairy tale about this, from a big Bulgarian said "The good ones in our country are considered crazy!".. We just want the decent and normal to recover in the state, and it is the opposition to do their job. It's what we do, and we want to do it. We are told that this is a stand-up statement from colleagues in the majority. Asking for control is interfering! What are we interfering with, esteemed rulers?! What could hinder a question from an opposition MP?! In my opinion, at a theft, for example, or a deal of 10 billion, which is expected to be drawn as a loan. What else can parliamentary control interfere with, that you consider it an obstacle to something?! The next thing that has been heard several times: Don't talk too much! "Why do you express yourself six people, as one can? "Dear Bulgarian citizens, not only do they not want to return normality, but also want to limit us how many people, how many times and how much time to talk here, and on your behalf at least on behalf of the one million you have sent us to this room, they want to limit you to ask your questions through us and will impose on us not 79 but one to speak. Maybe we'll throw a pick of who we want to talk to! That's where they brought in the state of emergency, which, step by step, turns out to be out of control. What else did they tell us? To want parliamentary control, to ask a minister is to waste his time! That's why he's a minister, that's why he's a servant of the people, so he can come here and answer the people who ask always and generally through the opposition! So, normal in our country is: wasting the minister's time, many words and many speeches from the people, interfering with something and antithesis. This is today's reality on the 30th day of the state of emergency! What's it supposed to be? To have parliamentary control because we know that you have many questions. For example, those left out of work want to ask why, despite the decisions and measures adopted, the water and electricity of people who have not paid simply because they are unemployed and have no money?! Who's gonna control these guys?! This is the control area. This is the place for the ministers to come and say why and who in Botevgrad will be responsible for shutting down the electricity of the person despite the decisions of the Cabinet and the National Assembly? The people with the credits. We want to ask.. yes, it is a wonderful measure to reschedule the loans because they are a problem at the moment, but according to whose decision the extension of the loan goes with an increase of interest to 10% and more than 10%? That's what we want to ask, not just to keep you from doing your job. For small and medium-sized businesses: when will you release it from property tax and garbage tax, as you said? Or when will you fulfill what the Prime Minister said to buy out the production of farmers from the state and give it to the socially weak? What is wrong with these questions, honourable rulers? We have a very strategic conversation ahead of us: how are we going to get out of the crisis afterwards, how are we going to restore people's normal lives? We have control over transparency over spending every lev, because those people I turn to are their money, that's their taxes, and they will pay the loan of 10 billion. Can't they ask how they're going to spend that money and how they're going to get to them because they're supposed to be meant for them?! Now we haven't heard a single argument why would you reject control? I'm sure you'll reject it in a vote, except for one, I'll probably still challenge someone after me to say that when we get together a lot in one place, we create conditions for infection, for spreading the disease, that we don't follow the government's instructions. That's always been the argument. We're not going to get back together, we're only coming here to adopt emergency laws regarding the state of emergency. We are wise to come here to accept urgent things, even though we wanted Parliament to work constantly. And on one occasion, we are gathered here today to accept urgent things in relation to the state of emergency. An important topic for today is the Energy Act to ease people and to recover the money they have overpaid. But I ask the honourable rulers: do you know today what law you will vote on? What emergency law will you vote on? Have you read it and you know it? I'll tell you how urgent and extraordinary a law you'll pass! The law shall enter into force from 1 January 2022, with the exception of paragraphs 5 and 10! So, Parliament cannot gather to address up-to-date issues to the dynamic environment and to the concerns of people who are unemployed who have to pay bills that have been closed for a month and are asking when they will come out, how will they live this cannot be restored, but can Parliament be gathered overtime for a very urgent law that will enter into force on 1 January 2022?! The logic where either the explanation is, or will any of you be able to say one word, one sentence that makes sense and have an argument?! Not just like you say here: we're wasting our time, you ten people are talking! Stand up and tell me! One of you didn't get up and didn't say, even this argument, we're not going to get back together because we're going to spread the disease, we're going to gather for emergencies only. Well then, download this thing from 2022 and submit the Law on Trade Chains to oblige them to buy Bulgarian production, to sell Bulgarian production, but to sell it with percentages, not just like that. This is the kind of debate we want, and that's why we're here! And I assure you not only stubbornness, not because we want a pointless dispute in a critical situation for Bulgaria and for the Bulgarians, but because we consider it absolutely necessary to restore normality, restore control, have a debate with the government, have government and opposition, have control. We'll do everything we can to make sure there's that kind of control! You know that if you reject our proposal today, we have another legal parliamentary mechanism to challenge it. And we will! Just because I end up with the words I started with again, the state of emergency is not an out of control! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. - What's the line? I won't. We continue with the speeches. Mrs. Karayancheva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u69	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Honourable Members on the left, let me disagree with your arguments on the fact that written parliamentary control is not effective, that there is a limitation of control that its publicity is lost. I will give several arguments in favour of the written control that is being carried out in the parliamentary republic, which is currently in a state of emergency. Yes, we have a mechanism by which to make a registration suppose each Member of the National Assembly within an hour to enter the Chamber. However, fellow Members, remember that there are about 100 members of the Assembly working here with us who are in direct danger! [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] These are stenographers, Quaestors, administration of the National Assembly. The sitting shall have a fixed duration during the parliamentary control. If this parliamentary control is to be extended, one or two MPs will be present in the Chamber. Each question is answered, which immediately goes on the website of the National Assembly. I personally checked on March 26th, there is no question that has not been answered! There is no such option as to return a question or a question from me to such a procedure that we did when there was oral parliamentary control. Given the importance of the situation, I have not allowed myself to return a question or to sit with the Conference of Presidents to do something like this. All the opportunities provided by the Rules in oral parliamentary control for the non-representation of a Member of the National Assembly or the absence of a Minister are excluded here! I'll give you one statistic: from 26 March to 14 April 2020, 95 questions are asked, 37 questions are to be answered this week and 58 questions will be answered, not because they are delayed or delayed! All questions are answered strictly to the Rules of Procedure! For comparison: 2018 During the same period, 120 questions were asked, colleagues were more active at the time, 109 questions were answered. I will not talk about 2019 because I rightly note that the opposition was not present at the time in the Chamber. You can see that there is no difference between efficiency and oral questions. Each question has been sent to the Minister and is to be answered. Just for reference to those who haven't guessed yet, let's take a look at art. 96, para. 1 of the Rules to see how long an oral and written question is answered. Colleagues, let us not underestimate the pandemic situation and seek only the media effect of parliamentary control, because, I understand, this is the main problem that we are not given on television. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I understand he needs political talk! I understand that you need to use the parliamentary tribune! And no one has forbidden you to do that! By Constitution...................................................................................... 76 You have the right to make proposals through bills and I within seven days to convene a meeting of the National Assembly. Mrs. Nino just said we didn't let the opposition ask. Go ahead, Mrs. Ninova. You get the answers. Tell your constituents. I'll give you a very, very... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I'll get to that. Something else came to my mind that we were limiting the opposition's speech. Dear Members, if we were to do this, today your proposal would not be the first item on the agenda! And all colleagues from GERB voted for........................................................................................................ Colleagues, I'm telling you one more time: we're in a state of emergency. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Of course the opposition has to ask questions. Of course, we as Parliament must control the ministers. We have to tell our constituents, too. But the situation is more complicated right now. Once again, we are in a state of emergency. And a friendly advice you have a TV that is not very rating: participate more in it, talk about the answers [[single applause and cheering]] which the ministers give..maybe then all Bulgarian citizens will start watching your TV. I wish it from the bottom of my heart! But it's not all television, dear colleagues! Thank you. [[Applause and cheering "Bravo" by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Karayancheva. Colleagues, there's a lot of people with lines here. Just tell me who it's gonna be. [[Reply from the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov.]] No. As I saw them, Mr. Kutev, Mr. Ermenkov, Mr. Mirchev. You're the fourth line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u71	That's not true! I asked for it before the chairwoman was finished! Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u72	They were much earlier. Last one? No, you're wrong, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u73	You're right from the beginning! [[Replications between the MPs Tsveta Karayancheva and Valeri Zablyanov.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u74	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs. Karajancheva, I would somehow have missed making a reply if someone else had made such a statement, but when you from the National Assembly's stand claim that written parliamentary control is equivalent to the one being made as oral questions and oral questions, I would like to ask you: how can I make a written policy inquiry in order to then ask the relevant two additional questions, to receive the relevant answer and finally to express an opinion; and if I wish to submit a request with the signatures of 48 MPs for debates?! Can I do this in writing? No, I can't. Can I, when I receive a formal answer from a minister, after I have asked him a written question, make a reply to him and ask him how he has responded in writing, since I have no right then to ask the same question for a certain period of time? And one more thing, Mrs. Karayancheva. We are not seeking television time, but you are trying to hide the ministers and their answers from television, from the people, because sometimes the questions we ask are quite awkward for them and somehow you think you will save them the red now... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u75	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u76	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Ms. Karayancheva, I would like to make a line from a practical and principled point of view of your speech. From a practical point of view, I'll give you an example. For one month I have been asking Minister Ananiev: who has allowed himself to sign the preliminary contract, if you remember, for a donation to a hospital and for some businessmen to use the technique with an advantage which, firstly, contradicts all the principles of us taxpayers who support this system? I got a second answer today that doesn't really answer my question. And I can't figure out who the responsible person is. It's been a month! I have to play a third one I'm not sure about. Separately, if Minister Ananiev is here, based on his answer, I can ask two more questions that I have now come up with on the basis of his answer. You're taking that away from me. I have now heard here from colleagues who do not appreciate the meaning of parliamentary control: it is built into the Constitution! And it's a basic principle of opposition to control power! To the legislature to impose control over the executive. And by cutting off control, you're actually taking away the opposition's right to control. And when you take away the right of the opposition to control, you de facto introduce dictatorship and authoritarianism! As well as explaining you from the stands with fear or something like that, the highest authority the parliament must have levers to control the executive power. So I started with the example. For one month now, I cannot control a health problem through the Minister of Health Mr. Ananiev [[the President signals that time has run out]] And they're hanging me out, not having any shyness or any moral inhibitions at all...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u77	Thank you, dear Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u78	...and I can't carry out my constitutional duties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u79	Thank you. Mr. Kutev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u80	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mrs. Karayancheva! The banning of parliamentary control to an attempt to appear on TV, first, is false and, second, dangerous. It is obviously part of some foundation points, some developed PR strategy of governance with which you want to show opposition MPs as some glorious people. Only when I ask a question in parliamentary control, I usually don't ask a question about myself, about my aunt or anyone else, but a question that excites my constituents, too. When I ask one such question, it must reach these voters, and it goes along the parliamentary lines through the broadcasting of parliamentary control meetings on a bunch of media, including national media. And that's part of the sense of parliamentary control! To reduce all this logic to the fact that, you see, some people want to appear on television is a simple process that does not resemble the President of the National Assembly. Someone accidentally came across a member of parliament to try to do so, but you, as President of Parliament, have no right to do so, because when I ask the question, I ask it on behalf of the people who asked it to me, and they need to hear the answer. They will not enter the National Assembly's page to hear the answer. There is a mechanism that, frankly, does not work very well because we moved it from Channel 1 to the other program of National Television! It's no wonder someday some government will take him out of the media! Only that doesn't help parliamentaryism. It is you, as President of the National Assembly, who bear with all of us, but you, to the greatest extent, are responsible for where parliamentaryism is located! You're not doing anything good with this right now! The only result of the whole thing is another simplification, another downgrade of the level and another distance of people from their own questions and answers! [[The President signals that time has expired.]] You just keep the ministers away from their questions!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u81	We'll continue with the speeches, colleagues. [[Reply by National Representative Stoyan Mirchev.]] He doesn't have an ass. Mr. Zablyanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u82	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Clearly, there is a point to such a debate. Clearly, even with 7 or 17 statements from the opposition, the conversation is between deaf people. This became clear from the statement of the President of our National Assembly himself, who clearly demonstrated his attitude and, most likely, the attitude of the ruling majority, to how the National Assembly should function, which was synthesized expression of the philosophy of all previous proposals, projects, amendments, decisions and so on about our work, all attempts to block Parliament's work, all attempts to discredit it, including the suspension of our work under the pretext of all possible medical and other measures! This philosophy of the ruling majority may be reduced to the following. You want a half-working National Assembly to have it, but not to have it; to say what it thinks, but not to be heard by society; not to interfere with the government, as one of your colleagues has rightly expressed here; to help the government so that the people can understand how wisely you are ruling under the conditions of this crisis! Such a parliament, honourable Members, is impossible! Parliament is a full-fledged political body. It cannot work half-time, half-time not working! It cannot be a service body of the executive, which you wanted to do, and cannot happen! The questions we put are in the parliamentary control, whether they are in the debate today, whether they are in another form, are the questions that are already put by hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens about the incompetent management of the state of emergency; for the orders you issue in the morning and which you cancel in the evening; for the continuous irradiation of the Bulgarian citizens with nightmare predictions that are changing every two days; for the responsibility to the Bulgarian people in the current days of the arbitrariness of the executive power. And that is why it is necessary that Parliament, in order to end the management arbitrariness, to end the chaos in which it becomes possible to adopt a decree of the Council of Ministers first and the law to be adopted after the decree. This is why control is needed, honourable Members! It is also necessary in your defense. This is what I tried to say two weeks ago so that the questions can be put here and answered in a certain order in the presence of the minister with the necessary depth and not to be placed at the entrance of the closed markets. Because that won't be of any use to you. You don't get it! You want to limit parliament to speak. Then someone else will speak instead of parliament, but then you will lose even more. You are in a terrible situation and I truly sympathize with you. You can't fulfill the order that Parliament half-work, half-do not work. Parliament will work because it says so in the Constitution! Because here is the Bulgarian Socialist Party! Because we have what questions to ask you, and they are not subversive questions, but they are about your responsibility to the Bulgarian citizens in these difficult days, which you are trying to bring down constantly and transfer to someone to the naughty citizens, to the difficult international situation and so on. You won't be able to transfer responsibility! A large part of the negatives will be triggered by your measures, not by the insidious invisible enemy. Your measures will be challenged! Then what excuse will you come up with, fellow Members? Then no one will be interested in your apologies, in the procedure "Parliamentary control" "Whether it will be oral, written or with sign marks from the hall." And that doesn't really matter! So we call on you: restore the full work of the Bulgarian Parliament! This will only help the Bulgarian state, our society, the meaningful organized exit from today's situation, the state of emergency. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] You won't be able to do this yourself. Look for parliament, look for legal instruments to manage the state of emergency! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u83	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. I agree, we are in a terrible situation all of us, all of us! [[Noise and lines.]] Are there any other statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate on the first point. Moving on to point two: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR ENERGY. Just for the record, the draft decision was presented and the second vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act. Importer is the People's Representative Valentin Nikolov. He was accepted at first reading on 3 April 2020. Mr. Nikolov, you have the floor to present the bill for the second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u84	Thank you, Lord Chairman. Dear colleagues! The report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act No 054-01-27, submitted by Valentin Nikolov on 31 March 2020, adopted on the first vote on 3 April 2020. "Repair for amendment and supplement of the Energy Act. " The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 30, para. 1, t. 7 is created sentence two: "Prices are validated monthly and applied from the first of the month for which they are held.'
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u85	You have the floor for speeches, colleagues. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u86	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Mr. Nikolov, in relation to the text describing the principle objective of this change in relation to implementation of the decision of the European Commission of 24 May 2018, I believe that, unfortunately, the proposed text goes beyond the specific task and is embarking on a debate or regulation on a subject on which I will now take a position at the specific point. I want to say at the very beginning that I see that there is a great consolidation, and most likely the call to return people's money will be supported. This consolidation I will list, speak in a personal quality here, the way I will vote, but from now on what I will do as comments on specific texts, consider it as raising a flag for problematic possible underwater stones in the things we change, because for me, the integration process and unity of all parliamentary groups, the desire to return money to people at this time, must only go as far as the energy system will be sustainable. I say that the text will have a lot of underwater stones, and I will show you who they are, in my opinion, in which underwater stones will be much more our desire to return money to people than to maintain the sustainability of the system. In this sense, we have no answer so far. We have asked several times why only in the middle of 2019. Since Bulgaria's right to request a price revision has been in place since mid-2018, has the Bulgarian state been requested? We have received from Mrs. Petkova and other colleagues, from ministries and from state-owned companies answers are unfavorable to us. For us Bulgaria lost one year in the opportunity after the decision of the European Commission to ask for fairer prices. And this question, and this concludes on this point, basically shifts the framework of what we are going to accept, because how would we evaluate, if we didn't have information from 2018 to 2019, as the Ministry says, about whether it is economically effective to ask for lower prices, how would we look at the positive news about the imports from Bulgargas at an extremely economic and effective price supply of liquefied gas, if, in the prism of time, as seen now, the price valued at this economically advantageous supply, looks radically different? So this is my comment on the beginning of § 2, para. 1 as regards the initiated desire for the public supplier of natural gas to implement a decision of the European Commission. A little further down, I think I'm going to say what the model is that we can implement the solution on, because I wouldn't want to, come on, not childish, come on, not naive, but politely represent this return to people as just translating or withholding money from an account. In conclusion, I would like to say that I have worked hard to make a few bills, not more than 30. 35% of the price we are talking about, for the return of people, will be legitimate to go to them, which, in a nominal sense, based on consumers of heating, gas and others, means less than 10 BGN. Let's be clear about what we're doing! We'll support it, too. In my personal capacity, I will decide how to vote, but we will also support, with a decision of the parliamentary group, that people will receive their money less than BGN 10, in my accounts, I hope I am wrong, to host on a monthly basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u87	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. - What's the line? I won't. A statement? You have the floor, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, honourable colleagues! I just want to point out what the scope of the Law is talking in numbers. Heat companies subject to compensation from Bulgargas are talking about 72 million. 810,000. £843. and 38 C.E. You actually have this statistic. The final suppliers are 22 million. Eight hundred and 502 lv. and 99 C.E. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the 671 thousand. BGN 346. and 37 C.E. with VAT. This is the period 5 August 2019 - March 2020. Mr. Kostadinov, I do not see any reproach in the fact that all the parliamentary groups, as they supported it in the Commission, I hope they will support the bill here as well, it is not a matter of any party policy, of one person, even though I am only the importer. Rather, the introduction of this bill is considered a burden than a demand for any dividends in this regard. I am aware of the weight of the texts that we have proposed because I know that there are subjects who will feel wronged in terms of not trading with Bulgargas during this period, but looking for a market approach and now feel at least morally damaged if not financially damaged. I am aware of this fact, but I think these are the only possible texts we could offer so that we can compensate the end users of services in the regulated market. Be assured, many experts from both companies and the Ministry and the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission have worked hard. We've thought about everything, we've been looking for options to be all satisfied, we haven't been able to find them, and I think these are the best texts, not because I've suggested them, of course, I've recognised them. And I hope we have full support from everywhere. It is not reproachable, on the contrary, we will seek options for this money to quickly reach people. And as far as the heating of Sofia is concerned, the very simple account is that the heating of Sofia, as I recall, is quite approximately speaking, about 40 million, I think it should have been received, and if we divide between 60 and 70 BGN. to a subscriber. So I'm not sure you're right in those accounts, but we'll hear them. Of course we'll be interested in your arguments, but I think these are the best texts, and I hope we don't split up based on some party or look for some... And what has been shown in the Commission is that we have supported many of your proposals in this committee, you have supported ours and it is in the name of this because technocratically we look at things in terms of energy. And that's how it's supposed to be! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u89	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Are there any lines? We continue with speeches. There are no speeches. Mr. Nikolov, proceed with § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u90	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the division of the Law. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: "2." (1) The public supplier of natural gas pursuant to Decision of the European Commission No C (2018) 258 of 24 May 2018 in case AT.39816 1. for the period from 5 August 2019 to 31 December 2019 for end-users of natural gas and customers connected to the transmission network, including persons to whom a licence for the production and transfer of heat has been issued; 2. for the period from 1 January 2020 to 31 March 2020 suppliers of natural gas and persons to whom a licence for the production and transport of heat has been issued. (2) Within 30 days of the entry into force of this Act, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission shall adopt decisions to validate the prices of natural gas on which the public supplier sells natural gas on the basis of the applications submitted for each period as follows: 5 August 2019. 31 August 2019; 1 September 2019 30 September 2019; 1 October 2019 31 October 2019; 1 November 2019 30 November 2019; 1 December 2019 "31 December 2019; 1 January 2020 31 January 2020; 1 February 2020 The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 4 to amend this Regulation by means of implementing acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 4 (2). In these cases, Article 31 March 2020 is replaced by the following: 13, para. 5, t. Art. 2 and Art. 2 14 shall not apply. (3) The Energy and Water Regulatory Commission with the decision for the relevant period under para. 2 also amends the prices at which final natural gas suppliers sell to customers connected to the relevant gas distribution networks, in accordance with the price of the public supplier at which they sell natural gas established by that decision. Within 7 days of the entry into force of this law, final suppliers shall provide the Commission with information on energy and water regulation and evidence of the quantities of natural gas purchased during the relevant periods under para. 2 for the purpose of selling customers. (4) When the final supplier of natural gas in the period under para. 2 has purchased natural gas not only from the public supplier, during this period the prices at which the final supplier sold natural gas to end customers are changed only taking into account the quantities of natural gas purchased by the public supplier and the decision for the relevant period under para. 2. (5) When the final supplier of natural gas in the period under para. 2 has not purchased natural gas from the public supplier, for this period the prices at which the final supplier sold natural gas to end customers are not changed. (6) For the period 1 July 2019 The Energy and Water Regulatory Commission shall adopt a decision to validate heat prices and to set preferential prices and premiums for electricity produced in a highly efficient combined manner by cogeneration plants, taking into account only the quantities of natural gas purchased by the public supplier and the decisions for the respective periods under para. 2. In this case, art. 13, para. 5, t. Art. 2 and Art. 2 14 shall not apply. Within 7 days of the entry into force of this Act, persons to whom a licence for the production and transport of heat has been issued shall provide the Commission with information and evidence on the quantities of natural gas purchased during the relevant periods under para. 2. (7) The established prices with the decisions under para. 2 and 6 are for the purposes of calculating the amounts that the public natural gas supplier, final natural gas suppliers or persons to whom a licence for the production and transfer of heat has been issued shall reimburse customers for the supply of natural gas, respectively heat. (8) Within 20 days of the adoption of the relevant decisions under para. 2, the public supplier shall calculate the amounts for recovery under contracts for the supply of natural gas to the persons under para. 1, such as the difference between the amounts paid for the quantities delivered, the prices established by the Commission's decisions on energy and water regulation until the entry into force of this law and the prices established by the relevant decisions under para. 2 and conclude an agreement with the persons referred to in para. 1 for their recovery. The public supplier shall refund the amounts of the persons under para. 1 within 14 days of the conclusion of the Agreement. (9) Within one month of recovery of the amounts referred to in para. 8 by the public supplier: 1. final natural gas suppliers shall calculate the difference between the amounts paid and/or payable for natural gas by final customers of the prices established by the Commission's decisions on energy and water regulation until the entry into force of this law and at the amended prices established by the relevant decision under para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2. the persons to whom a licence for the production and transport of heat has been issued shall calculate the difference between the amounts paid and/or payable for heat by heat customers in buildings where the distribution of heat is carried out by actual monthly consumption on the basis of the distribution of the amount of heat carried out by the persons under art. 139b, para. 1, the prices established by the Commission's decisions on energy and water regulation until the entry into force of this law and the prices established by the decision under para. 6. (10) The difference obtained under para. 9 shall be deducted from the amounts payable by customers for the month in which it is calculated by final suppliers of natural gas and from those to whom a licence for the production and transfer of heat has been issued. The deduction shall be made by final suppliers of natural gas, respectively by persons to whom a licence for the production and transport of heat has been issued, once. Where the amount due by customers is less than the calculated difference, the deduction shall be made until that difference is exhausted. (11) For the deduction under para. 10 a notice shall be issued on an invoice indicating the value of the amount of natural gas due for the relevant period, for heat, respectively, the amount of the calculated difference under para. 9 and the value of the amount due by the final customer of natural gas or the customer of heat after deduction. (12) For heat customers where the heat distribution is carried out for a reporting period of one year, the person under art. 139b, para. 1 draw up a total annual matching account for the building and individual equalisation accounts of customers, reflecting the different price periods and the relevant Commission decisions on energy and water regulation for validating heat prices. The countervailable accounts shall indicate the amount of difference between the price heat amounts established by the Commission's decisions on energy and water regulation until the entry into force of this law and the prices established by the decision under para. 6. (13) The final suppliers of natural gas, respectively the persons to whom a licence has been issued for the production and transport of heat, shall restore the difference under para. 9 in the form of a monetary amount of a person who has lost the quality of a customer and does not owe amounts for natural gas or heat on the basis of a written application indicating a bank account to which the amount is transferred. (14) Within 14 days of recovery from the public provider of the amounts referred to in para. 8 customers of the public supplier connected to the transmission network that supply natural gas final suppliers of natural gas, not connected to the transmission network, shall restore to the final suppliers the difference between the amounts paid for the supplied quantities of natural gas, at the prices established by the Commission's decisions on energy and water regulation until the entry into force of this law and the prices established by the relevant decisions under para. 2. Within one month after recovery of the difference between the amounts of final natural gas suppliers calculate and recover the difference between the amounts of final customers under para. 9, p. 1 and para. 10. (15) Within 14 days of the adoption of the decision under para. 6 Fund "Security of the gas system" calculates the difference between the amount of electricity demand from high-efficiency cogeneration of electricity and heat, determined by the Commission decision on energy and water regulation until the entry into force of this law, and by the decision under para. 6. (16) The difference under para. 15 shall be intercepted by the Power System Security Fund from the premium payments due to the producers of electricity from high-efficiency cogeneration of electricity and heat on the basis of an act to intercept the claims issued by the President of the Fund. In this case, this difference shall be considered as liabilities within the meaning of art. 36th, para. 2. (17) The Energy and Water Regulatory Commission with the decision for the relevant period under para. 2 indicates to the transmission network operator for the same period to amend the price of natural gas for balancing determined in accordance with the Methodology for fixing daily imbalance fee and balancing neutrality fee (GB, pc). 57 from 2019) (see Annex I to Regulation (EC) The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. Applications submitted before the entry into force of this Act by the public supplier for the approval of natural gas prices for the periods under § 2, para. 2 shall be dealt with under the terms and conditions of § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u91	Thank you. Statements?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u92	Here you go, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u93	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Nikolov, the more the exhibition progresses, the more my desire to show these underwater, dangerous stones decreases, but this does not cancel my commitment to inform you about them or at least the way I see them. The European Commission's decision in the Gazprom case provides for such a retroactive action. In many places in the press and researchers say: "We are against the retroactive action. "We need to distinguish two things from the bonuses that will be here for Bulgaria after the decision, and the contract signed with Gazprom and the European Commission, and the case that we have with a retroactive return of nearly 150 million, and what should Bulgaria do with them? I call it an underwater stone because I think you know, Mr. Nikolov, my position, I have shared it in the Commission, if the Bulgarian state in its commitment to be useful to people and in this retroactive action to reach to the end and to have a very serious cumulative effect on and of these 150 million, for me a priority should be, I share it with you, the construction of gas transmission networks, as less than 3% of the population in Bulgaria has access to gas infrastructure. We could expand the capacity of several warehouses and the prices of low gas to maintain such quantities that would allow us, through the public supplier, to make such an energy package or mix that would be useful for people. Or in short, my thesis is that the underwater stone is: it is noble to return to each user in view of the regulated price, but we as statesmen and parliament as a body could expand this scope and think more precisely. By the way, these are the words, you know, and from the letter we received from Mr. Borhardt he approves of the efforts we make. He congratulates us on the fact that the European Commission has contributed to Bulgaria having greater bonite and lower gas prices, but he asks for the hottest once again exactly what we have proposed with regard to the retroactive measures to reflect on it a little more. An effort has been made, some texts have been found, but I warn you that this is an underwater stone. The second thing I want to say is, I can't pass up art. 17, which refers in the third paragraph of Mr. Borhardt's letter. My opinion is that the text in art. 17 violates the terms of Regulation 312/2014, in which the game, let's call it that, with the balancing component in the gas price cannot have a retroactive character. Colleagues, I'm afraid why I call it an underwater stone, there will probably be a lot of cases to be filed. The text is as it is. The position through Mr Borhardt's letter is extremely clear that under no circumstances is due to the specifics and nature of the balancing price of gas or this imbalance that needs to be fixed first is on a daily basis. Secondly, on a monthly basis, financial accounts are accounted for. He's tied to two distribution and balancing contracts. Not to read, you have a letter and not to bore you, not to waste too much time on the National Assembly, that regulated price and balancing in Bulgaria mean the same thing, is at the expense of Bulgaria. That is, with the full awareness that we are in a very specific situation where the dominant position of Bulgargas is in this market, we are also called upon to make the market element of these measures extremely complex. This is what these challenges come from, not as Mr. Nikolov said he had left and right thinking, but I wouldn't feel comfortable with myself if I didn't share these underwater stones with you that bothered me. Firstly, we also had a much more effective opportunity for these 150 million to remain in favor of the people of Bulgargaz and BEH and under the leadership of both parliament and the state to strategically focus on expanding the gas infrastructure again for the benefit of the people, because then you know well that with more consumers the average and nominal prices will fall. Secondly, to be extremely careful with the new paragraph 17, in which Mr Borhardt explicitly contradicts Regulation 312/2014 for me in his letter. So much for the underwater rocks. I wish you good luck with the new changes! I would like from the stands to ask or urge Mr. Nikolov. In order to balance, I think that what we are now going to accept here as changes to the Energy Act, because this text is related to paragraphs 4 and 5, do you think it is appropriate to think about some changes to Regulation No 2 to determine prices to be more useful to both people and our country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u94	Thank you, dear Mr. Kostadinov. - What's the line? The line is Mr. Ermenkov, the second line is Mr. Boychev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u95	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kostadinov, you probably meant paragraphs 4 and 5 and not paragraphs 4 and 5? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u96	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Second line said Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u97	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Kostadinov, we had this debate. A really serious debate was held by both the Ministry and by all the committees that had a bearing on this issue and our Energy Commission. Surely there was another solution for this 150 million and there were many proposals to be made in this direction. But in the Commission debates it became clear that the only solution from Bulgargaz's point of view was to recover the money that was recovered from the Russian company. So I became convinced that this really was the only solution. And in these texts, which my colleague Nikolov proposed in really serious debates, I think there is a balance and the right solution. I do not think that in determining the price for the imbalance with a retroactive date, because yesterday in the Commission Mr. Malinov explained very clearly how the price was determined and it was not on the market because it had to have a certain number of transactions In just one day, this amount of transactions has been achieved and the price has been determined as if it were by the end of 2019. Therefore, I think the texts are balanced, and we should not have a problem with the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u98	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. Third line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Kostadinov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u99	Thank you. Madam President, Madam Secretary! He is right, Mr. Ermenkov, but in the context of crisis meetings, obviously today, the lapsus are forgiven us, as well as the colleague from GERB Budinov, and I also allowed lapsus. It's not paragraphs 4 and 5, it's paragraphs 4 and 5, so you're right! Regarding what the colleague from GERB said as well. See, the problem is that Bulgaria had the last opportunity until 2019 to apply other methods to determine the balanced price than the standard adopted by the European Commission. And since there must be more than three deals to make the average, that shows our greater responsibility. Since the beginning of the year, as far as I know, there hasn't been that many deals in the stock exchange, or are they at least minimal so we can determine the average price? I'm graduating. This further confirms that we must very carefully, very precisely, with complete clarity what we are doing, introduce the changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u100	Thank you, dear Mr. Kostadinov. A statement? Mr. Nikolov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u101	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! I didn't get a line because I knew I wasn't gonna have enough time, so I'm gonna do it as a speech. Firstly, I absolutely agree with the hypothesis to invest this money, however, if we could. Unfortunately, our hypothesis is, as the previous one said, that we should return because he used: to return the money. Because the hypothesis is that it wasn't Bulgargas' money, as they were in fact not Gazprom's. They were overrun on a non-market basis. After the negotiations have been concluded in a certain period of time - 5 August - 31 March 2020, in this period, whether regulated or unregulated the market in Bulgaria, Gazprom does not comply with this, but returns all the money to Bulgargas, because they were actually overrun on a non-market basis, such as the agreement between Gazprom export and the European Commission respectively. That is, we are in the hypothesis that Bulgargas is currently holding money for its customers, who have overshadowed on a non-market basis. So that money has to be returned. I would certainly welcome, if we could put this money in infrastructure or in a power plant, for example, that would use gas, but unfortunately, we are not in this hypothesis. That is, Bulgargas must find a way to repay this money to its customers. One way is a regulated market and because it is regulated there are respectively natural monopolies that are controlled by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. We have tried to do so with this law, which I think is the only possible based on what I have heard from all the experts, and they have united precisely along these texts. That is, we define how to return the money from the public provider to their customers in its role as a public supplier, of course, and then mention how to calculate the differences to be recovered to the end customers using the relevant services from these natural monopolies. There are also some other money that Bulgargaz will still have "those who are on a free market, i.e. at freely negotiated prices. It was there that a great deal of tension arose..... whether by law we should determine the return of this money. Absolutely, and Mr Borhardt's letter, which you are quoting, categorically states that this should not be done by law. Of course, the law does not prevent one market entity from settling the accounts with another market entity because the Law states that from 1 January 2020, it is carried out at freely negotiated prices. That is where we expect, of course, the responsible role of Bulgargaz to settle these accounts with an agreement with his clients by informing his board of directors accordingly and taking this decision. [[Heckling]] In connection with para. 17 You are absolutely correct in quoting Mr. Borhardt in no way should we interfere with the Law, namely, retroactively settling the process of the balancing market. That's right! We're trying with this text not to do this. [[Heckling]] As far as I know, in the talks with Mr. Borhardt, which have been held both by the Ministry and the Commission, and by Mr. Malinov from Bulgartransgaz, Mr. Borhardt says I am not a direct witness to this, but I quote what I have heard, he said that: "It is good to be determined only by the regulator, to decide whether this needs to happen." So we've given the regulator the opportunity to assess whether it needs to do this retroactively or not. This is now absolutely in the hands of the regulator, the Energy and Water Regulator Commission, to assess the impact of the price that it has formed on the public supplier or will form whether it should influence the balancing market processes in the past. Because, of course, we know that some traders absolutely legally, I say nothing else, have benefited from the low liquidity in this market and because of the fact that no price can be set for more than three transactions, has used a reference price, of course, the price of a public supplier -- plus minus, with a small adjustment, the small adjustment, as requested, is 8% -- minus and plus. And absolutely legally they have taken advantage of this low-liquid market and gained a certain kind of profit. I don't want to interfere or take... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm graduating, Madam President. ...or take their money, so we let the regulator decide. Under no circumstances should we interfere in the market, let the regulator judge, therefore he is a regulator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u102	- What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u103	Proposal of the National Representative Tasco Ermenkov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure §4 is being created: ............................................ By 31 October 2020, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission shall submit to the National Assembly, for information, detailed information on the amounts recovered under § 2. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 4, which I read just now.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u104	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Statements? I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u105	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4, which shall become § 5. The law is over. I would like to draw attention, Madam President, there is a technical flaw. I read it correctly, but I forgot to say not to consider it an amendment. It's out of the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u106	I'm out of it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u107	It's off, yeah. I would like to thank all MPs for the responsible attitude, because this is about returning the money to the end users who expect it from us. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u108	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. There are no other speeches. Thank you, Madam Secretary. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE TRADE REGISTER AND THE REGISTER OF THE LEGAL PERSONS WITH A UNSTAPANIAN TARGET. Mrs. Alexandrova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u109	Thank you, Madam President. Report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Commercial Register Act and the register of non-profit legal entities, No 054-01-18, submitted by Krasimir Georgiev Tsipov and a group of MPs on 27 February 2020, adopted at the first vote on 12 March 2020. The Law on the Commercial Register and the Register of Non-Profit Legal Entities is amended and supplemented by the Law on the Commercial Register. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u110	Statements? I can't see.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u111	The Commission proposes to create a new § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 11, para. 3
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u112	Statements? I can't see.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u113	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2 which shall become § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u114	Statements? I can't see.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u115	Paragraph 3 "Instruction text'. The Commission does not support the importer's text and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u116	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Baichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u117	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! As we have also stated in the Commission, we will not support this paragraph, as we believe that there is a collision, a discrepancy between the desire of the importer, the reasons he has presented and the text proposed, as this part does not correspond to the desire of the importer to reduce the administrative burden. I'm also obliged to declare conflict of interest because I'm a lawyer. I must tell you that over the years we have witnessed numerous violations, I would even say fraud, in terms of the so-called theft of companies, as is accepted in the spoken language. It has happened many times that individuals who are in conflict with each other, partners, take advantage of the absence of one or another partner and draw up false documents. These are usually protocols for general meetings and to remove the partner, to appoint another manager, to be decapitalized and drained the company. With the order so created, which was adopted a few years ago, this phenomenon was very limited and I dare now argue that units are the abuse or the theft of companies. However, the proposed text offers us the restoration of this vicious practice by clearly limiting the ability to follow the quality of the authorised person, in professional terms, whether that person has the necessary qualifications to participate in this proceedings and its commitments in relation to what he will do, in contrast to declaring the fact with the registration concerned, with the corresponding guarantees that he is responsible for his actions. Separately, they are carried out by a qualified lawyer in the case which is now permitted by law, which also has its legal qualifications. Separately, lawyers also have their insurance in respect of carrying out their actions and could be compensated for the injured persons if necessary. By the way, the same goes for the notary, which is currently proposed by the person concerned, to be with only one notary certificate from the notary, but he will only check whether this person is the same, but not his qualification. Typically, this person will be entrusted to the manager, i.e. there will be no guarantee regarding his professional competence. We of the Bulgarian Socialist Party believe that the current text corresponds to the possibility of protecting this production and that it should remain. I therefore appeal for discretion and for the other MPs to reject this text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u118	Thank you, dear Mr. Baichev. - What's the line? The line, Mr. Notev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u119	(Unmembered in SG): Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Baychev, I replicate your speech in the part where you state how the representatives of the BSP voted in the Commission. It seems to me that it is correct to state in this House that this proposal, this text, was not adopted and was not unanimously supported. As I share your arguments, you know that in the Commission I have made a statement in a similar sense, I would like to state precisely that all Commissioners did not support the proposal for a change. We supported the stay of this text. In this House we heard the Report of the President of the Commission Mrs. Alexandrova, who said that the Commission does not support the proposal. I want us to get out of some kind of delusion, not to put a debate between the parliamentary groups on this purely professional proposal. Otherwise, you are absolutely right, but let us be clear that this proposal should not be supported in a meaningful manner on grounds which are set out and recorded in the transcript in the discussion in the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u120	Thank you, dear Mr. Notev. Second line? I won't. A hole? Mr. Baichev, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u121	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister! Dear Mr. Notev, you are right in substance and I accept the remark that all Members of Parliament in the Commission have united around this opinion, but let us not forget, however, that meetings of the groups of Members of Parliament have been held between the Commission and today, and there may be some other solution. From this point of view, I am simply calling not to support this decision. Otherwise, in essence, you are right, yes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u122	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. Any other speeches? I can't see.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u123	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u124	Statements? I can't see.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u125	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5: .................................................................................. For proceedings for the notification of applications to the trade register and the register of non-profit legal entities, annual financial statements and annual activity reports which have not been completed until the entry into force of this law, the fact that the acts under art. 38, para. 1 of the Accounting Act are adopted by the General Assembly of Partners or Shareholders or by the relevant authority, only by the declaration under art. 13, para. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u126	Statements? Here you are, Mr. Popov. I didn't see you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u127	Thank you, Madam President. We will not support § 5, which is supported by the Commission, on arguments which we have already expressed in the first reading of this bill, as well as in the Legal Commission. We believe that the security proceedings here have been damaged. It is not clear why only those acts for the annual financial statements will be subject to only and only a declaration under art. 13, para. 4 without the other requirements concerning evidence that the general meeting of shareholders, respectively of the partners, has gathered, accepted them, and such a requirement is also for the other documents adopted by the general meeting and its decisions. For these reasons, we will not support § 5. We believe that the security proceedings for the announcement, and these are important acts.. annual financial statements, because further down, notice, the National Revenue Agency has as its basis these annual financial statements of the companies and it will be led by them, they are already proof. How credible this will be when there is no security production, and it is severely limited, we can imagine. Therefore, we will not support § 5. By the way, unknown for what reasons, it is the only one who enters into force since the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union, there is not even a three-day period, and the entire remaining law without § 10 shall enter into force on 1 January 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u128	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. - What's the line? Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u129	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Popov, my reply to you is that in the Committee on Legal Affairs, after listening to Mrs. Kozareva, the Chairman of the Agency, the representatives and the Minister of Justice, you know, said that the Bill is urgent, and that is why, after you asked me earlier, the moment of emergency is being used, people can work and manage to process the non-convenient annual financial statements, namely in the amount of a million and two thousand. For this reason is also the version of § 5, which shall enter into force from the day of the promulgation in the Official Journal. It was very clear, very detailed and reasoned by the colleagues. Of course, the choice is yours and the decision is yours.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u130	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. Mr. Mitev, come in for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u131	Thank you, Madam President. It's a very short line. Colleague Popov, although we seem to be repeating the debate at first reading, the production, I repeat, is not security, it is a register production. And now the officials of the Registry Agency have no way of establishing whether the signatures submitted by the relevant authority by the General Assembly, which adopted an annual financial statement, belong to the persons who participated in the General Assembly. This is not the work of the Registry Agency and the officials who are there. The other arguments to support this text Mrs. Alexandrova told you. There is an excessive number of accumulations at the moment with a request for annual financial statements and, in fact, the text allows for this problem, which currently exists for the Registry Agency, even more in the context of a state of emergency, to be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u132	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u133	Thank you, Madam President. They're both replicating. In the current text in the Commercial Law and in the Commercial Register Act, the decisions of the general meetings, if not provided for in their founding act or company contract, or statutes, shall be accepted by validating them notaryly. Why this decision should not be certified notary for the adoption of an annual financial statement but should be only by a declaration under art. 13, para. 4 of the Commercial Register Act? That was my question. And the second thing I wanted to say is that this in no way existed as a problem for the administration until now to process the applications submitted. Now all of a sudden, there is this problem of administration again, it turns out that its Law is crooked, figuratively speaking, because it could not do its job in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u134	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Mr. Secretary wants to say something about it. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u135	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I just want to continue the logic of colleague Philip Popov. He says - why do we allow a declaration to verify the annual financial statement, with taxes being paid on it, and he goes to the NRA? And my question is this: why are taxes due at the NRA under the same regime? And this is the verification that traders do in front of the tax administration. In this sense, I believe that the Commercial Register Act is actually approaching the two proceedings, so that the trader can carry out the same actions or here, in this case, an action which will be valid for both the registration and the tax proceedings and for the notification of the company's activities to all entities. Yes, the facts and circumstances are subject to proof, but they are subject to proof in each law, respectively, by the order of this law. There is no point in aggravating proceedings before the Registry Agency and asking for this superform for one action, which is really only a announcement, and the legal consequences are in other proceedings. I also think that Mrs. Menda Stoyanova will support me with regard to the status of the declaration of the annual financial statements and, respectively, the tax returns. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u136	Looking at Mrs. Stoyanova smiling, you have her support. Isn't that right, Mrs. Stoyanova? [[Radio.]] Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see. We're moving on. Mrs. Alexandrova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u137	Thank you, Madam President. Paragraph 6 "Introduction text'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u138	Statements? I can't see.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u139	Paragraph 7 "Instruction text'. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7: .................................................... In the Law on Corporate Income Tax (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 7 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. The title is amended as follows: "Tax declarations and annual activity reports'. 2. The creation of para. 3: The annual activity reports shall be submitted by electronic means in accordance with art. 20, para. 5 of the Statistics Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u140	Statements? I can't see. Moving on, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u141	Paragraph 8 "Instruction text'. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8: ................................................................................... In the National Revenue Agency Act (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 22 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Paragraph 5 is amended as follows: The authorities of the National Revenue Agency shall use for the purposes of the Agency data from the annual activity reports of persons obliged to provide them under the Corporate Income Tax Act and the Income Tax Act of natural persons. 2. In para. 6 words................................................................................. 1 "5" is replaced by "al." 1 and for use of the data under para. The following points are inserted after point 5 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011)
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u142	Statements? I can't see. We're moving on.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u143	Paragraph 9 "Introduction text'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u144	Statements? I can't see.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u145	Proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Tsipov under art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 10: ..................................................... In the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020. (prom., D.V., No. ...), is created art. 16a: Art. 16a. (1) Until the emergency situation has been lifted by an act of the Council of Ministers, temporary measures may be put in place to protect the production of food produced in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, trade and marketing in chains of stores. A chain of stores are retail retail stores of food and non-food goods, where trade is carried out on behalf and at the expense of one person in a building which together with the facilities is a complex site, and the shops must have facilities in at least three administrative areas of the country. (2) He who violates the requirements of para. 1 shall be punished with a penalty of 15 000 BGN. up to BGN 25 000 and in case of repeated infringement with a penalty of 30 000 BGN. Up to 50,000 leva. A repeated infringement is a violation committed within three months of the entry into force of the criminal decree imposing a penalty for the same by type of infringement. (3) The infringements shall be established by acts drawn up by officials authorised by the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency or by the Director of the Regional Food Safety Directorate concerned. Criminal decrees shall be issued by the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency or by the Director of the relevant Regional Food Safety Directorate. (4) With the act under para. 1 A temporary ban on imports of certain foods from countries not members of the European Union may be introduced, subject to the international treaties to which the Republic of Bulgaria is a country.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u146	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Sabanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u147	Madam President, honourable Members! I and my colleagues from IMRO support the decree that the Council of Ministers adopted yesterday. At the end of last week, when the Minister of Health closed the markets with his order, we reacted, perhaps prematurely, but in the end the Bulgarian producers sell their goods right there on the Bulgarian markets. Each small producer sells his goods there and makes his living. I would like to say that this livelihood is part of a long vegetable production process, for example. However, the markets, as the health minister has now announced, will be open for three days so that people can sell their goods. However, this will only help importers and traders who will actually be able to sell their goods. However, the manufacturer, on the other hand, needs, for example, lettuce, at least 20 days to sell its crops, because it does not go out on one road, they do not rob it on one road. She goes out day by day, little by little. Between one and two months is the production of cucumbers. For these measures from here, from this high tribune we address the Minister of Health. These measures will not apply precisely to these people - small vegetable producers who work all day in the gardens, in their greenhouses to earn their daily lives. On the other hand, the proposal that was adopted yesterday in the Council of Ministers, which, again, I say, we fully support, is for, how do I say, pressure on the chains, so that local producers can enter and sell at the stands, have access to the large mass of consumers who benefit from the services of the chains. In this regard, I have a proposal for editorial changes, as in art. 16a in para. 1 after the words the words "food production" are added the words "from Bulgarian raw materials". Food must be from Bulgarian raw material, which is the main one. Madam President, I have the proposals written and I will give them to you afterwards. Finally, upon completion of the current import text, of the text of para. 1 Add the following new sentence: These businesses are obliged to provide the population with the goods and services offered by them at prices increased by not more than 25 percent of the net acquisition prices from producer to end-user with bonuses, fees and overvalues. We all know, at least those who traded in the chains really, the chain, first, puts between 45 and 50% mark-up. Separately, each producer is charged with additional bonuses, promotions, money for brooches must give, so the money that is actually taken and the profit that the Bulgarian producer has to earn decreases immensely and this money goes into these chains. These chains conclude some contracts for licenses, for use of the brand and this money does not stay in Bulgaria, they go out and the people who work, the people who really deserve to receive money, they take more from them than they should. That's why I'm proposing the end of Al. 1 under Art. 16a. I'll give it to you. The proposal in para. 2, in my opinion, firstly, it generally gives a tone to the whole thing that needs to be done, not in any other way, but with fines. There's no way of knowing anyone else unless they're threatened by solid fines, that this thing needs to be executed, and that it's strictly executed. I personally believe, as I do with my colleagues at IMRO, that the fines, as recorded, are too small for some chains they make, of one object has happened, between a million and two. The amounts from 15 to 25 000 leva. They're pretty small. That's why I'm proposing editorial change and para. 2 to acquire the following species: supposed to violate the requirements of para. 1 shall be punished with a penalty of 30 000 BGN. up to 50 000 BGN and in case of repeated infringement with a penalty of 60 to 100 000 BGN. for any subject who has violated the requirements of para. 1. A repeated infringement is a violation committed within three months of the entry into force of the criminal decree punishing the offender for infringement of the same species. Property penalty of 100 000 BGN. in the third and any subsequent infringement.'; I think this will have a very serious disciplinary effect on the chains if they really refuse or somehow decide to cleverly, because in the original version of the text, if they do two violations, they can actually pay a maximum of 75 000 leva. In general, and this, as they say, flea bit them. That is why I am counting on you all to support this proposal. I think that together with colleagues from GERB with the initial proposal and what we propose, we will achieve the effect we all want, and I really hope that Bulgarian farmers can reach the market of these large chains so that they can sell their production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u148	Thank you, dear Mr. Sabanov. - What's the line? I can't see. Come in for a statement, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u149	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! Of course, we from the opposition sincerely rejoice that after nearly five years of our efforts the government finally began to think about the Bulgarian producers and how they could have access to the large retail chains. I say this because it really was a very, very long struggle and unfortunately, however, as if at the moment you would be satisfied with too little, that is, just to give specific farmers in a given area to have stands. In 2013 we almost reached such an agreement with all major retail chains. They have started fulfilling these commitments, but not all of them have fulfilled it, and ultimately, it seems that this has stopped and now we want to go back to the same way only so that we do not fight with Brussels, because in order to achieve something for Bulgarian citizens, you must have the strength to fight back in Brussels as well. However, honourable Members, if we really want to be useful to the Bulgarian producers, Madam President, allow me, on behalf of the parliamentary group, and I will make editorial amendments, which I will now present to you. Colleagues, we suggest the following. First, in the created art. 16a in para. 1 two points shall be placed after the words the emergency situation and the text by the end of the subparagraph shall be amended as follows: for the purposes of the packaging, labelling, supply and advertising of foods, the "Bulgarian" and its derivatives shall refer to the place of origin of the raw material for the production of the food and shall indicate that the raw material is produced in Bulgaria. Use other than that without explicit indication of the deviation shall be inadmissible and shall constitute a user's delusion. That is, if you want to buy Bulgarian cheese tomorrow, you know that it is made of Bulgarian milk here in the country, not imported milk. If you want Bulgarian cheese the same. The term "Bulgarian" to help the Bulgarian consumer that in this product really the main element is produced in Bulgaria. Second, at a food retail outlet with an annual turnover of more than 2 million. BGN, i.e. we exclude small shops, some of the quantities offered, the production of which is traditional for Bulgaria, including fresh fruits and vegetables included in the support scheme within the framework of the common agricultural policy of the European Union, milk and milk products, meat and meat products and wine and spirits should be produced in the country. The part shall be determined in relation to the annual turnover and for wine and spirit drinks, in relation to the assortment, of the products for the group concerned as follows: fresh fruit and vegetables included in the support schemes within the framework of the common agricultural policy of the European Union, a minimum of 51 per cent produced in Bulgaria. Second, milk and milk products - at least 70 per cent produced in Bulgaria; meat and meat products, outside of chicken - at least 25 per cent produced in Bulgaria; meat and meat products, i.e. chicken - at least 50 per cent produced in Bulgaria; wine and spirits - at least 75 per cent of the range produced in Bulgaria. As these are data from the official statistics of the Union produced in Bulgaria. The Bulgarian producers can respond precisely to such proposals, as this is agreed with them. If we want the real protection, the real support of the Bulgarian producers, this is the measure that we offer. Also, in para. 3 A sentence third is created: The amounts collected for sanctions are entered into the budget of the State Fund.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... And thirdly, in para. 4 The words: "With the act under para. The Council of Ministers is hereby replaced by the Council of Ministers. Colleagues, if we really want to help farmers, not so much the main help to be.. see, there you are, there's a stand, put your products on, and that's it. If we want to, then we need to help these farmers put their goods in real terms. Here I understand that we have some points of contact with the Patriots, but the name "Bulgarian" is key to this fundamental element and I suppose that there will be no farmer in the country to oppose this proposal. The same applies to basic products. Let them offer their imported goods, we don't mind that, but it is known that the Bulgarian goods there do have a quota. This is now real support for these farmers, who really do, except they weigh the price that you offer, and I think it is good to accept and exceed more than 30%, but it is good for these stands to have a real Bulgarian stock with a quota and not just, you see, over there in the corner is the stand of local producers, go and find it. I'm graduating, Madam President. I think that in this way we can actually give this support to the Bulgarian producers, which they are currently expecting from us, because indeed the situation is extremely difficult and unprecedented. Thank you and I provide you with our editorial corrections.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u150	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u151	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! I would like to start by saying that we are in principle in favour of the Decree of the Council of Ministers, which is a timid first step towards this stage to protect Bulgarian farmers and give them access to the market. It is timid because it concerns only a limited number of products, it concerns only the situation in the emergency situation and it also seems to me that it cannot be extended to traditional Bulgarian agricultural products, of which we are a major producer. I should remind you that three years ago we proposed a law for Bulgarian products to have access to the market and to the chains. Then our desire was to create prerequisites for the double standard of food, which was established by the European Commission and was sanctioned by the European Commission, to find its place with the supply of Bulgarian products, now with the hypothesis and situation in this crisis situation, that farmers are damaged, unable to realize their production or do so at prices that are far below cost. From this point of view, the decree, which, again I say, is a first step, solves questions both for farmers and Bulgarian consumers who are looking for Bulgarian production, but can hardly find it, can hardly deal with the situation what exactly is present on the market. Our proposal for Bulgarian products, i.e. the Bulgarian agricultural product, the Bulgarian cheese, the Bulgarian meat products, is related to the fact that the raw material is produced in Bulgaria in order not to mislead the company is in Bulgaria, but the raw material comes from Poland, for example, the milk from Hungary, and also from Greece even ready, processed. The IMRO colleagues suggest that there should be a ceiling for the commercial overestimates. This is a sensible proposal, given that, at this time, as the official authorities recognise, trade surpluses reach 50%. That's what's wrong with consumers. Whether 25 or 30% of the proposal, as far as I understand it, is up to 25%, this is an opportunity indeed for the prices of essential food not to fly at such a rate as we have seen in the last three weeks. And they really do increase every week by a minimum of 5 to 10%, and that of basic food products. That is, limiting the trade mark-up is a way to stop a type of speculation in the direction in which it is currently going, due to the fact that the turnover is low and therefore the demand is limited. We believe that the Decree must also be supplemented with our proposals for the other products. Because what do we say in the Order? That only for dairy products we will provide a commercial area of 90% for products that are produced with Bulgarian raw material. But where do fruits, vegetables go, where do meat and meat products go? That is, we are traditional producers, and these products should also be included, not only physically present in a particular place, have enough contracts and opportunities to be presented, but at the same time make the effort to deliver these products. Otherwise, if we read the Decree as it is, it is understood that milk and dairy products in practice may have a good opportunity to be presented, the sanctions will be easily determined, but for all other products it will be almost impossible because you have no criteria, you do not have the basis on which to decide whether a square meter is enough for the Bulgarian vegetables against the background of the remaining commercial area it has. With regard to sanctions. True, the penalty is something disciplined, from which the purpose is rather to have real Bulgarian goods and not to sanction. The fact is that the proposal that you have just read is for each commercial site to be such a sanction. The proposal IMRO makes is in practice with twice as many sanctions, but I am concerned by the criteria and the ways in which these sanctions will be implemented. Each trading site.. this means that we must have the picture at this time what it looks like in terms of the representation of each of the product groups and what we want to happen. The dairy products say: from the assortment, which is also somehow not a very accurate indicator. Not from the assortment, from the products offered there, because there is no inspector to go to sanction the chain if the whole assortment begins to consider which is presented at the time of a given chain of commerce. And it seems to me, in conclusion, that the Law still requires that we extend the scope of the proposed measures by the Decree and do what is necessary to protect the producers, but I also want the consumer to be satisfied in this situation to have Bulgarian products from which there is a choice. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u152	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Yankov raised his hand first, then Mr. Prodanov, after him Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u153	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! With regard to the proposed proposal: until the emergency situation has been lifted by an act of the Council of Ministers, temporary measures can be introduced to protect the production of food produced in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and the already adopted Order of the Council of Ministers, I would like to state the following. It is at a time when restrictive measures have been imposed on the markets - the traditionally presented Bulgarian goods on these markets cannot reach consumers. The importers are probably counting on the producers to calm down. I want to disappoint them. The chain stores, mainly for food products, have built delivery schemes, will not change in a month their suppliers, and those producers who rely on traditionally selling their products on closed markets will remain without the possibility to sell this production. As you know, it is not lasting and practically they will lose. I expect a lesson from the crisis. Small and medium-sized farms policy is necessary, but such a policy is necessary that they are sustainable and supported by the state. It is in times of crisis that this must be realized when we will rely mainly on food satisfaction to come from local production. There are good practices that can be applied. The standard for fresh products can be applied and it is not only for the period of emergency, and this will be real support to the Bulgarian producers. There must be a clear view of an inclusive agricultural economy policy that relates to small and medium-sized sustainable farms that are the backbone of food production. We need to have objectives to unite behind: an acceptable price of production, without too high benchmarking overestimates. The proposal thus made.. mechanically, within a month, does not exclude this. There shall be a mechanism, a regulation ensuring a fair price for the manufacturer and acceptable to the consumer for the quality it wants. There's such a practice. It must be adapted and applied according to the realities in which Bulgarian agriculture is placed. I call on you: stop imitating concern. People who will be affected by the restrictive measures imposed because of the emergency situation will understand the real damage that has been done to them will feel it. Now is the time to realise what mistakes have been made in the sector of Agriculture, to make sense of them, to have a common vision, a consensus on the future of agriculture, the backbone of our economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u154	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Prodanov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u155	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The crisis that is currently raging around the world has some positive effects. One of these positive effects is that not only in Bulgaria but around the world has already begun to speak and attention has been paid to the national countries that should pay more serious attention to meeting the food needs of their own population. This is also about closed borders, difficult deliveries between countries and so on and so forth. In this regard, the proposal made by the ruling coalition and the ruling itself is in the right direction and, as we said, we will support it. However, it is only a timid hint of the problem and cannot in any case lead to its solution for a very simple reason: every business requires predictability and sustainable legislation. The decree of the Council of Ministers, which for the duration of the emergency situation gives some kind of ray of light to the Bulgarian farmers, will by no means solve the problem, because the emergency will run out, the trade chains will decide that for example they may already reduce the area they give to the Bulgarian producers, and this will disappear in the past. What is necessary, as I said, is sustainable legislation, that is, what we from BSP offer, and it is not the first time we have proposed it, we have proposed it several times in the years back, is to change by law percentages that Bulgarian producers will implement and provide on the Bulgarian market. Before, when we presented these bills, we have argued that, for example, some meat producers, Bulgarian dairy producers, vegetable producers cannot meet the quotas that we have offered in our bills. If we really have sustainable legislation, that is, the Bulgarian producers have confidence in the state and in the laws that are adopted and that they will not be changed, then they are sufficiently enterprising to be able in one or two years to make investments that fully comply with what the Law says to them, and they will be able to comply with those quotas that we offer. We appeal: what we propose is to be supported by the Law so that it can really be trusted, and sustainable, Bulgarian farmers really have confidence in the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u156	Thank you, dear Mr. Prodanov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Georgiev, come in for a speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u157	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! It is very sad when last week the Minister of Defence made a proposal to support farmers. We expected this thing from the Minister of Agriculture to make these changes, not from the Minister of Defence. This did not give comfort to farmers, on the contrary, even more confused them. You remember last week when we were looking at our proposals for an increase of 30 million in the budget for small vegetable producers, fruit trees and livestock farmers, from this tribune I told you that in a sociological international survey of 106 countries Bulgaria is 50th in food security and last in the European Union. With the proposals that are now offered to us, you see, Bulgarian goods will enter the chains and they will be competitive. Not at all! We know what subsidies farmers in France, in Germany, in Poland, in other countries and what subsidies our lowest subsidies receive. I'll set an example right away. You remember when Russia imposed back sanctions on imports of fruit and vegetables, then Poland, which is one of Europe's biggest apple producers, with a million and a hundred thousand tons, of which 900 thousand exported to Russia, what did you do? He tromped on the table in Brussels and said: "We want subsidies!" They gave 30 euro cents per kilogram, notice, per kilogram. The Polish government also paid 30 euro cents, i.e. the Polish apple per kilogram for the Polish producer is one lev and over lev subsidy. The subsidy for our producers of apples is between 120 and 130 BGN. in a decare, at an average of three tons.. divide it, that's 4 pennies per kilogram of apples. How can our farmer against 4 pennies be competitive? Well, it takes 25 years to get to the Polish producers. Therefore, the Polish apple comes at 20 pence in Bulgaria. It's the same with tomatoes, with pepper. I will also set an example of state policy. This is where I address the government. Last year, the Romanian government, by the way, introduced in 2017, these proposals of ours, and you, then, did not agree, now suddenly you are very concerned. The Romanian government then introduced these proposals. Notice what the Romanian government did last year! Make sure they're currently building 60 large hypermarkets that will only sell Romanian goods. What did the Hungarian government do? With a decision released last year 1 billion. EUR for the construction of tomato and pepper greenhouses, the expected return on added value is 10 billion. Here's money not for seven planes, but for 37 under adequate policy in the agricultural sector. From our parliamentary group we suggest that you accept these proposals of ours, but they must be accepted and further developed with the possibility that farmers can be competitive what we offered you last week for the small ones who do not have the opportunity to enter the big chains. That's our offer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u158	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u159	Madam President, honourable Members! We are currently discussing a specific question how in this crisis to assist Bulgarian producers. We're talking very well, but the subject is very serious, very big, and I believe that we will continue after the emergency is over. In the years of transition and as a result of wrong decisions the state of Bulgarian agriculture is not what it can be and what potential the Bulgarian land has, Bulgarian professionals in this area and ultimately the opportunities for feeding the Bulgarian people. Of course, today we will resolve the specific issue, but let us think about the fact that Bulgarian agricultural production is uncompetitive because it receives lower subsidies than those of European farmers. Whatever we do today, I hope we make the most sensible decision, we have the question of how this problem will be resolved in the future. He is the serious one, he is one of the strategic questions for the future of Bulgarian agriculture. We have also made mistakes in the transition, as a result of which there are serious disproportions inside, in the agriculture of Bulgaria itself, in the ratio of cereals, fruits, vegetables, meat. I place only these topics with full awareness that we will not solve them today, but let them stay on our attention, as the crisis gives us opportunities, besides many worries, many problems, also gives us the opportunity to rethink major topics which, in the years back, due to party shortsightedness or political bias, unnecessary confrontations, Bulgarian parties and political representatives here, in different options of parliament, have failed to resolve. I regret that even today the government offers a konjunctural solution and a piece with regard to the protection of Bulgarian production in the retail chains. Yesterday the Council of Ministers decided in its decree to oblige the retail chains to provide stands and areas for exposure to Bulgarian production. A good measure, but it seems that a measure that will not give the expected result, namely to actively help Bulgarian producers of agricultural production. Why? Yesterday, we were able to talk to representatives of the Union, produced in Bulgaria, where many of these companies are members, and they expressed concern that many of the conditions that weigh on them and actually prevent them from selling in the retail chains remain. For example, these days, a retail chain has asked a small Bulgarian company, a producer, to pay 50 thousand. lv. for advertising to be admitted to the retail chain. You must remember our old conversations from a few years ago: bag fee, chain birthday fee, advertising fee, and so on, all things that cost the product of the Bulgarian producer and make it uncompetitive. The real solution has been what we have been proposing for years, but, obviously, in the dispute government, the chains have won. We know what this fight means, we've fought it, but we're in opposition. The government should show more character in defence of the Bulgarian and the native. After all, this is no solution. Yes, let them be given opportunities to exhibit the goods, but this will not be real help. Consider again our proposal, colleague Stoinev outlined it in detail, for a certain percentage of mandatory display of Bulgarian goods in the retail chains. Be ready for the reaction, what will it be? That this is not market-based, that we will be condemned in the European Union, will reject the practice of Romania, which has long been through this.. introduced it by law and so on. They protect their interests. It is time for us to protect the Bulgarian national interest with a very clear request, with very specific requirements for the chain and with a record in the Law. Let us see how they will not comply with the Bulgarian law. There's something else we'd like to suggest. The Prime Minister said a good wish the other day. I offer you this good wish to become a Bulgarian law. He said he ordered the Minister of Agriculture to buy out the unsold production, which as a result of the closing of the trades could be destroyed, the government would buy it out with money from the state budget and distribute it to socially weak people for the holidays. Wonderful! However, I do not see this proposal on behalf of the government in the text of the Law, so I do it as paradoxical as it is that I am making a proposal on behalf of Boyko Borisov. Madam President, I am making an editorial proposal that sounds like this: The National Assembly asks the Council of Ministers to ensure the purchase of the unrealized agricultural production of Bulgarian farmers as a result of the crisis with a coronavirus and to provide them free of charge to socially weak." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u160	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Can I have the text? Thank you. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mrs. Alexandrova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u161	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I would like to make an editorial proposal: In the new § 10, concerning art. 16a, the following amendments shall be made: "1." In para. 1 sentence 2 is amended as follows: A chain of stores are self-service stores, retail food and non-food stores, where trade takes place on behalf of and on behalf of one person. The buildings and facilities are a complex site that has ten or more commercial sites in the country. 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: In the case of a person who in a commercial establishment violates the requirements of para. 1, a penalty of 15 000 to 25 000 BGN is imposed, and a penalty of 30 000 to 50 000 BGN is imposed in case of repeated infringement in the same site. A repeated infringement was committed within 3 months of the entry into force of the criminal decree imposing a penalty for the same type of infringement in the same commercial establishment.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u162	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Tzipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u163	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! It is good that there is a relative consensus on applying such temporary measures, which can be defined as protectionist measures, and they are aimed at supporting and supporting Bulgarian producers. It is good that there is such a consensus when we are put in this complicated situation. It is good that proposals are being made, honourable Members, precisely for achieving the desired result of all of us to assist the Bulgarian producers. Dear Members of Parliament, I believe that this debate should be conducted mainly with concrete proposals under the current Food Act, and that we should start this debate from now on so that, at the end of the emergency situation, we can have ready proposals and these ready-made proposals are in line with the opinions of all interested parties. Yesterday at the Legal Committee meeting, we saw this consensus. Today, in plenary, we see that there are many proposals. However, let me draw attention to the MPs that the aim is to give a framework, to enable the Council of Ministers by its own act to determine what action should be taken. First of all, to ensure that Bulgarian producers sell their products in these stores. Secondly, the decree yesterday adopted by the Council of Ministers is a decree to provide basic food groups produced on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria in commercial sites representing chains of stores. Exactly, the aim is to create a mechanism to enable Bulgarian producers to offer and realize their goods in these chains of stores, and the debate, honourable MPs, how to help Bulgarian producers overcome the consequences of this severe crisis, we still need to start leading it under the current Food Law. The proposal draws attention to you under the Law on Measures and Actions during the state of emergency. It is understandable that this topic should be put to debate, but let us take the first step and adopt this amendment in the Law on Measures and Actions, and then we should sit down and discuss carefully the proposals with all interested parties, the proposals from us, I mean from Parliament, the proposals that will come from the Ministry of Agriculture, the proposals that will come from the Associations of Bulgarian producers. I therefore believe that today, as a first step, it is imperative that we adopt this measure by thinking that we can make a commitment not to be the first and the only step, but to have new ones. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u164	Thank you, dear Mr. Tzipov. - What's the line? Mr. Georgiev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u165	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Tzipov, step one, only that fruits and vegetables are not like shoes, like clothes, to lock them somewhere in some warehouse and say: "The first step we have taken, and you will wait. Agrotechnical events cannot be stopped because agriculture is production under the open sky. These are issues that we need to resolve in this crisis here, today and now. That's why you're pleading for concrete proposals. Since we are now talking about large chains, almost all cooperative markets have shops that are for fruits and vegetables without putting their goods out. I was in a store like this yesterday. The woman closed up and cried because she said: "Big chains can sell... " There was only one person in it, we have six people in the big chains at the fruit and vegetable stand. What's more dangerous? Whom do we protect from the small Bulgarian producer or the large chains in which the production comes from Poland, from Spain, from Italy, Turkey, tomatoes from Spain? So now I'm making an editorial proposal, by the way, to include these fruit and vegetable stores that are on cooperative markets without exposing their goods outside. Right now, about the state of emergency, it's thousands of lives, Mr. Tzipov, even though you don't like this thing on your face, but it's thousands of lives! In small shops that are for fruit and vegetables in cooperative markets, which have not exposed their goods outside, there is one person going in. I'm saying this from practice, and you all know this thing. The whole of Bulgaria is watching us right now. Let's take this thing. Here is a concrete, working, good proposal and it must be accepted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u166	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. I'm going to ask you to give me a specific location where to put the particular text. Thank you. - What's the line? Mr. Prodanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u167	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Tzipov, we generally support that there should be more in-depth action. Regarding what you claim should be given power to the Council of Ministers to carry out everything related to the measures, to overcome the crisis, we see that the Council of Ministers also makes quite serious mistakes. I will give you an example from April 11th... Minister Ananiev's order to close all markets. Do you know what happened and how what happened did not help but to the detriment of Bulgarian producers? The other day he closed all the markets and risked the production that these producers produced to be scrapped because it has an expiration date. I ask you the question of you, and you may ask the Minister to rule: what is the difference between the crowding of people in the retail chain and the designated crowding of people on the market? Even the market is open space, while the retail chain is a closed space that has ventilation and spread viruses and so on. The Council of Ministers makes mistakes and the relevant ministers, especially Minister Ananiev, because if we want to help these producers, the state, the municipalities, the management of the municipal markets, can create the necessary organization so that these markets can really work the same way that the retail chains work. The easiest solution is to see in a market, for example the market, that there was a crowding of people there, and to say: "End, we close all the markets. " This is the easiest solution, but it is not right. The right solution is to create an organisation so that they can work, because this is really the real help for producers. That is why I said that not everything should be left in the hands of the Council of Ministers because it makes a lot of mistakes in this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u168	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov. Third line? Here you go, Mr. Sabanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u169	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Tzipov, I make this line in two respects. The first attitude, of course, that you're right, that you have to start somewhere, and we've done it, and we've started somewhere, because so many years nothing has been done. Not to mention those years back when the chains entered, when neither we nor you, then they entered Bulgaria without being given absolutely no conditions. In many countries in Europe, specific requests from these chains were made at the time of entry, specific conditions to operate on their market. In the other connection with the markets, I would like to point out that you forgot to mention that the Minister of Health still said that most likely the markets will be reopened after Easter. Let's not talk about anything else. The crisis headquarters and the Minister of Health closed when for Tsvetnitsa and now for Easter when there will be a huge number of people in these markets?! I sincerely hope that the Minister of Health will show discretion and listen to the calls of the Bulgarian farmers and after the expected large masses of people who at the holidays flock to these places, then cluster, after the passing of the holidays, will open the markets again, for order and reasons and in order and way that they have already started to do so. They're already doing it! Whether it was right or wrong, time will tell. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u170	Thank you, dear Mr. Sabanov. Mr. Tzipov for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u171	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the House, I will be very brief in my ass. I have the feeling that we are not discussing a measure relating to the state of emergency, but we are having a general debate in general matters. I think this is not the time to have this principled debate, but this relative consensus that we have on this subject to be implemented as quickly as possible. Yes, the Council of Ministers is the authority to take the necessary measures, including these temporary measures during the emergency situation. Yes, perhaps actions are not always measured so that it has an immediate effect on them. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a state of emergency related to the spread of an extremely serious contagious disease. Given that it is these markets that this contagious disease can be widely spread, of course all these measures must be taken. Is the production that will take place more important, perhaps with a few days' delay, than human life, honourable MPs? Let's figure out what's more important! However, let us support this measure as far as we need to launch this serious debate. Yes, we live in a completely different world! Just a month ago, we were not faced with such a serious challenge! Dear Members of Parliament, today we must make this important decision!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u172	Thank you, dear Mr. Tzipov. [[The National Representative Hristo Prodanov wants the floor for a procedure in the manner of conduct.]] Come in the manner of conduct, Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u173	Madam President, it is my request to you that a fellow Member of the National Assembly come out here and begin to ask the question: what is more important? Life and health, or keeping business and economics, to take him away. Dear Mr. Tzipov, there is hardly anyone here in this room to put this question and this dilemma. We put forward proposals and offer solutions that are to preserve health and life, but to preserve both the business and the fate of all these traders. What you have said now about the markets, what has been affected by this minister's order, concerns more than 17 000 traders and employed in this area. Why do we have to ruin these fates and this business? [[Replication by National Representative Krasimir Tsipov.]] No. There's no such dilemma. Please don't ask questions like that. What we're arguing about is trying to save both of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u174	Thank you, dear Mr. Prodanov. [[Noise and lines.]] Which way do I say I can't take the floor away from the MPs because I don't know what they're gonna say. They have the right to comment on any matter here. A statement? Mr. Mitev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u175	Thank you, Madam President. Members of the Parliament, I will support the text as proposed in the version of the Commission. However, I would like to make an editorial amendment in art. 16a, para. 1 sentence first, the word "leaving' shall be replaced by "proposing them on the market'. I think it's been a long time since they let go. I think they're proposing, and they're not releasing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u176	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. - What's the line? I can't see. A statement, Mr. Ermenkov? Here you are, Mr. Ermenkov, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u177	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I have to tell you, I had a hard time driving the way from where I'm sitting to here with my knees shaking, from being on the market yesterday and buying tomatoes from there. From what I've heard so far, I've acted very carelessly and I've put myself at great risk. And right now I'm just wondering how and what to do with the so convincing statement that the markets are the biggest outbreak. I can't understand how something that is outdoors if strict control is introduced to visit the market with the relevant high sanctions, but with the possibility of this market working, it is a bigger hearth than a supermarket in which at the beginning they really put in big queues, now there is no line to see in front of the chains, and you will see all the people inside, passing less than half a meter away. The only thing you do on your door is spray your hands, and if you don't have some automatics in one of those stores, you spray them yourself. This is how we are currently trying to develop the business of those who have already developed it, closing the markets, closing them right at the moment when holidays are coming, the moment when people like to make salads. I won't go into details about the lamb with fresh onions and other onions. Not allowing these people to buy fresh products from the market, you send them to the chains. If that's the goal, sit down and say: "We want the retail chains to work in Bulgaria with Bulgarian goods according to their rules and we will not allow there to be a market, a small, medium and micro-producer of agricultural products to sell it freely." Because from what I've heard so far, I didn't see any logic. Inside air-conditioned rooms that rotate air, no matter how far people are from each other, you breathe that air, it falls into the eyes and so on and so forth. This was not dangerous or less dangerous than a market that was in the fresh air. Colleagues, let's be serious. Don't close the markets! More like introducing measures, if you're going to be dragonish, to control inside, how people get in, what you do inside. If someone breaks it, punish him, but don't deprive people of an opportunity to do what they are only doing right now, working with their own hands agricultural production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u178	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line? Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u179	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Ermenkov, I must give you a reply due to disagreement with your speech, but, frankly, I did not find a single letter, a word in your speech that is related to the topic discussed at the moment. Colleagues, I think we all care about the people in the markets, the people who work to produce the vegetables and the fruits we eat. I think that care for them will be materialized through the relevant administrative acts and there is no threat to their work. I'm really gonna hold on to some words to be serious. Let's be serious, let's discuss what we're here to discuss! We have consensus, what more do we really do? Let us adopt these texts that have been proposed and try to improve them with the editorial proposals that have been made. Everything else is an empty speech that should position us to please someone. Let's not like each other, let's do the work!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u180	Thank you. Second line? Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u181	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ermenkov, I will give you a line: be serious, let's be serious. Indeed, when we want to be serious and responsible, it is not right for the Minister of Defence to make proposals, but for the Minister of Agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u182	Thank you. Third line? There's no third line. A hole, Mr. Ermenkov. [[Reply by MP Tasco Ermenkov.]] I appreciate you giving up and putting on the mask. I don't see any other speeches. Moving on, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u183	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Paragraph 10 "Instruction text'. Proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Tsipov under art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10, which shall become § 11: ..................................................... The law shall enter into force from 1 January 2022, with the exception of § 5 and 10, which shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u184	Statements? I can't see. I hereby close the debate on this point. Let's continue with: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE CLOSED AND ARMED FORES OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The law was adopted in the first vote on 4 March 2020. The President of the Commission is welcome, Mr Popov, for the Second Voting Report of the Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u185	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 002-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 February 2020, adopted on the first vote on 4 March 2020. The Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria is amended and supplemented by the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the law. A proposal from the MP Milen Mihov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 33, para. 1 Finally a comma is placed and added to the command of the Joint Command of Special Operations, the Director of the Military Information Service and the Head of the Military Academy Georghi Stojkov Rakovski. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1, which shall become § 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2 which shall become § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u186	Are there any speeches? I won't. Continue, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u187	According to § 3, there is a proposal from the MP Konstantin Popov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer n proposes the following version of § 3, which becomes § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 156 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2 Finally, the words in a higher position requiring the relevant qualification, in the interest of the military service, shall be replaced by the words in the interest of the service, in a higher official position, in accordance with the qualification obtained. 2. The creation of para. 3: "Military officers with senior officer's rank and military rank, who hold a post for more than 4 years and refuse to reassign another proposed position at the same or higher official level, shall continue to hold office for a period of 1 year.' The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4, which shall become § 5. According to § 5, there is a proposal from the MP Konstantin Popov. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5, which shall become § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 165 the 1. In para. 1 is created t. 12 and 13: ..12. on expiry of the term referred to in Article 1. 156, para. 3; 13. in the event of exercising the right to a pension from a serviceman of the age limit under art. 160, para. 4. 2. The creation of para. 3: The Minister of Defence may receive information from the National Insurance Institute on the existence of an exercise of the right to a pension from the serviceman under para. 1, t. 13. The National Insurance Institute shall provide the information free of charge within 14 days of receipt of the request.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u188	Statements? I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u189	A proposal from the MP Milen Mihov. The motion has been withdrawn. "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6, which shall become § 7. According to § 7 there is a proposal from the MPs Tasco Ermenkov, Nikolay Tsonkov, Georgi Vargiev, Georgi Andreev, Kolyo Milev, Lubomir Bonev, Vasil Antonov: In Paragraph 7 of the transitional and final provisions in the new content of para. 3 after the words the armed forces. The text until the end of the sentence is dropped. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u190	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Milev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u191	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to propose that we vote on our proposal because, in some amendments to the Military Intelligence Act, we have all allowed us all to submit the possibility of appointing a civilian employee as well. Now, with our proposal, we want this to be corrected and dropped. For many years, the Military Information Service was managed by an officer of the senior command staff of the armed forces. I can give such examples as Colonel General Vassil Zikulov, who was a long-time Chief of Military Intelligence, also Lieutenant General Katsarov, General Studenkov, and today. There were times when this service really was run by a civilian employee and the necessary results were not achieved. Moreover, the possibility of appointing an officer of the senior command of the armed forces enables all senior military officials to have the right to take up that position. Moreover, the service itself also builds up its personnel, and we are currently bringing in an ambiguity that the current executive chief may at some point be replaced, although it is specified what requirements the civilian employee must meet, which is generally good, but we are offering this opportunity to drop out. I invite you to support our proposal, which will enable the generals to take their stand and not lower their importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u192	Thank you. Are there any lines? Mr. Ermenkov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u193	Shortly after the terrible speeches under the previous law. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I once again stand before you to argue the harm of the idea of a civilian head of the Military Information Service. I thank the Department of Defense for the opinion it sent about our proposal. Because that statement is even more convincing of how right we were in the proposal we made. The opinion says: With the adoption of this proposal there will be no possibility of realization in fullness of a provision of art. 26, para. 1, t. 3 of the Military Intelligence Act of the position of the Office of the Military Information Service to be appointed persons with professional experience in the system for the protection of national security and not only of the armed forces." According to the Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System, in force from 31 July 2015, the National Security Protection System consists of state bodies and bodies which carry out diplomatic, defence, intelligence, counter-intelligence, operational, law enforcement and security activities and which are represented in the Security Council of the Council of Ministers. I ask: if tomorrow any of these members of this Security Council of the Council of Ministers or someone who has been involved in counter-intelligence, operational, law enforcement or security, or fire defence, for example, and has ten years of experience in this activity, suggest him as Director of the Military Information Service with its specialty............................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Because nothing prevents such a person from being offered according to your suggestions here. Military information is a specific military activity. That's why it's called "Military Information" and not "Study Intelligence" or "Study Agency" where they have quite other goals, methods of work, even quite another terminology. Military Intelligence is an integral part of the armed forces, not some service! According to the Doctrine of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria: The Military Intelligence unites the activities of all intelligence bodies and formations in the Army in a single centralized process at strategic, operational and tactical level, according to a unified design, conditions and tasks. The intelligence units of the Army's structures are served in informational, methodological and planning by the Military Intelligence Service. It provides our contingents, participates in operations and missions, prepares military exercises of the Army. The head of the agency's intelligence, radio-electronic intelligence and the information-analytic sector. The Director of the Military Intelligence Service is involved in the work and is currently Chairman of the NATO Military Intelligence Committee, the Board of Directors on the direction of the Alliance's intelligence activities and the Board for the Management of the Intelligence Information Exchange System.' It would be absurd in this complex issue of military and intelligence nature and responsible decisions for intelligence to stand a civilian person who is an adequate partner to the generals in Brussels. In 112 years of existence of the Service with all its successes and none of them betrayed the interests of the country, except for 5 months in which Mr. Bakalov was chief of the service was always military. The five months of management of Mr. Bakalov were a political order for surrender in violation of the existing law of the data on foreign agents of the Commission on Files, unfortunately! Does this mean that if we have a vacant seat tomorrow and if you don't accept our proposal, someone with a lot of years at the DANS or at the DAR or at the National Security Service, could become Director of the Military Information Service, most likely to perform political orders? Otherwise, I do not see the reason why such a person would be assigned to this service. During all the years of its existence, military intelligence has served only the interests of national security in accordance with the dominant doctrine. Not once has he been involved in political struggles and servitude whatsoever regime that ruled Bulgaria. His success has always been, and today they are highly appreciated by the partner services, and one of the reasons for this is the professional military leadership of this service. Let us not allow this to change in a negative direction. I suggest we close this door so a civilian can head this service. I really suggest, if we want to talk seriously about the Military Information Service, that you support our proposal. There are military people among you who understand what a military case means and what military intelligence means. I leave the decision to your conscience, but remember that this decision is also your responsibility. Thank you for your attention. [[Unique applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u194	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Are there lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I can't see. Mr. Popov, would you please finish with the last paragraph of §8!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u195	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8, which shall become § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u196	Are there any speeches? I can't see. Thank you, Mr. Popov. I also close the debates on the last point of the National Assembly's work programme. I hereby appoint a vote on the first item at 17.25. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u197	Colleagues, we begin by voting on the first item of today's agenda... A decision to amend and supplement the decision on the National Assembly's work during the state of emergency. The decision was presented by Mr. Christian Vigenin. The secretaries are on the line. Let's move on to the vote. Vote 75 MPs: 53, Against 6, abstention 16. Of them, in parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" " 53" for, "DPS" 1 against, 12 abstentions, by "VOLIA" "Bulgarian Rhodolists" "5 against, non-members of PG" 4 abstentions. We move on to the second item on the agenda of the Second Voting of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Energy Act. First, we begin with the editorial amendment made by Mr. Nikolov in the name of the Law: the Law for amendment and supplement of the Energy Act, the Law for amendment and supplement of the Energy Act is dismissed. Please vote. Vote 74 MPs: for 74, against and abstention there is no. From them in parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" " 51" for, DPS "13" for, "VOLYA" for, "Bulgarian Rhodolists" "6" for, non-members in PG "4" for. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law with the corresponding editorial amendment. They voted 71 MPs: for 71, against and abstention there is no. Of them in parliamentary groups: We are going to vote on the version of § 1 of the Commission Report. Vote 74 MPs: for 73, against none, abstention 1. From them in parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "50" for, 1 abstention, DPS "13" for, "VOLYA" for, "Bulgarian Rhodolists" "6" for, non-members in PG "4" for. We move on to the name of the division of the Law "Transitional and final provisions." They voted 71 MPs: for 71, against and abstention there is no. According to parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "48" for, "DPS" "13" for, "VOLIA," "Bulgarian Rhodolists" "6" for, "Unmembered in PG" "4" for. We move on to the version of Paragraph 2 of the Commission Report. Vote 72 MPs: for 71, against none, abstention 1. By parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "48" for and 1 abstention, DPS "13 for," "VOLYA" "Bulgarian Rhodolists" "6" for non-members in PG "4." I shall put to the vote the version of § 3 of the Commission Report. Vote 72 MPs: for 71, against none, abstention 1. By parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "48" for and 1 abstention, DPS "13 for," "VOLYA" "Bulgarian Rhodolists" "6" for non-members in PG "4" for. I put to the vote the new § 4 created, which the Commission supports. 70 MPs voted: 70, no abstentions. By parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "48" for, "DPS" 13 for, "VOLYA" "Bulgarian Rhodolists" "6" for, "Unmembered in PG" 3 for. The last text is the text of the importer for § 4, which becomes § 5, supported by the Commission. Please, voting mode. 70 MPs voted: 69, none, abstention 1. By parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "47" for and 1 abstention, DPS "12" for, "VOLYA" for, "Bulgarian Rhodolivtsi" "6" for, non-members of PG "4" for. That's the end of this bill. Moving on to the third item of today's agenda: Law amending and supplementing the Commercial Register Act and the register of non-profit legal entities. I'm voting on the name of the Law. Vote 72 MPs: 70, none, abstention 2. By parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "47" for and 2 abstentions, DPS "13" for, "VOLYA" for, "Bulgarian Rhodolivtsi" "6" for, non-members of PG "4" for. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 1. 70 MPs voted: 70, no abstentions. According to parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "49" for, "DPS" for, "11" for, "VOLYA" for, "Bulgarian Rhodolists" (Bulgarian Rhodolists) "6" for, "Unmembered in PG" for, "4" for. I put to the vote the created new § 2. 70 MPs voted: 70, no abstentions. According to parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "48" for, "DPS" for, "12" for, "VOLYA" for, "Bulgarian Rhodoljuktsi" (Bulgarian Rhodolyknits) / "6" for, "Unmembered in PG" - 4 for. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 2 which shall become § 3 supported by the Commission. They voted 71 MPs: for 69, against 2, no abstentions. By parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "47" for and 2 against, DPS "12" for, "VOLYA" for, "Bulgarian Rhodolists" "6" for, non-members of PG "4" for. I shall put to the vote the rejection of § 3. 70 MPs voted: 63, none, abstention 7. By parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "48" for, "DPS" 12 for, "VOLIA" "Bulgarian Rhodolists" "6 abstentions, Non-members of PG" 3 for and 1 abstention. We move on to the text of the importer for § 4, which the Commission supports. Vote 69 MPs: for 69, against and abstention there is no. According to parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" " 47" for, "DPS" for, "12" for, "VOLYA" for, "Bulgarian Rhodolists" (Bulgarian Rhodolists) "6 for, "Unmembered in PG" 4 for. I vote on the name of the division supported by the Commission. They voted 71 MPs: for 71, against and abstention there is no. According to parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "48" for, "DPS" "13" for, "VOLIA," "Bulgarian Rhodolists" "6" for, "Unmembered in PG" "4" for. We move on to the version of Paragraph 5 of the Commission Report. Please, voting mode. 70 MPs voted: 23, against 46, abstention 1. According to parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "46 against and abstention," DPS "13 for," "VOLYA" "Bulgarian Rhodolists" "6 for non-members of PG" 4 for. We are voting § 6 on the Commission report. Vote 69 MPs: for 69, against and abstention there is no. According to parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "46" for, "DPS" for, "13" for, "VOLYA" for, "Bulgarian Rhodolists" (Bulgarian Rhodolists) "6 for, "Unmembered in PG" 4 for. I shall put to the vote the version of Paragraph 7 of the Commission Report. 70 MPs voted: 70, no abstentions. According to parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "48" for, "DPS" for, "12" for, "VOLYA" for, "Bulgarian Rhodoljuktsi" (Bulgarian Rhodolyknits) / "6" for, "Unmembered in PG" - 4 for. I shall put to the vote the version of Paragraph 8 of the Commission Report. Vote 67 MPs: for 67, against and abstention there is no. According to parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "45" for, "DPS "13" for, "VOLIA" "Bulgarian Rhodolists" "6" for, "Unmembered in PG" "3" for. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 9. They voted 72 MPs: for 72, against and abstention there is no. According to parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "49" for, "DPS" 13 for, "VOLYA" for, "Bulgarian Rhodoljuktsi" (Bulgarian Rhodolyknits) / "6 for, Non-members of PG" - 4 for. We are going to vote on the new § 10 which has several editorial proposals. We begin with the proposal of the MP Alexander Sabanov, who asked for the two paragraphs to be voted separately. I put to the vote first Mr. Sabanov's proposal for the editing of para. 1. 70 MPs voted: 57, none against abstention 13. According to parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "47" for, "DPS" "13 abstentions," "VOLIA" "Bulgarian Rhodolists" "6" for, "Unmembered in PG" "4" for. I put to the vote the second paragraph of the editorial proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Alexander Sabanov. They voted 72 MPs: 49, none against, abstention 23. By parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "49" for, "DPS" "13 abstentions," "VOLIA" "Bulgarian Rhodolists" "6 abstentions, non-members of PG" 4 abstentions. We move on to the proposal for editing of the MP Dragomir Stoinev. They voted 72 MPs: 49, none against, abstention 23. By parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "49" for, "DPS" "13 abstentions," "VOLIA" "Bulgarian Rhodolists" "6 abstentions, non-members of PG" 4 abstentions. We move on to the proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova. They voted 72 MPs: 49, none against, abstention 23. By parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "49" for, "DPS" "13 abstentions," "VOLIA" "Bulgarian Rhodolists" "6 abstentions, non-members of PG" 4 abstentions. We're going to Mrs. Anna Alexandrova's office. 70 MPs voted: 70, no abstentions. According to parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "47" for, DPS "13" for, "VOLIA" "Bulgarian Rhodolists" "6" for, non-members of PG "4" for. The next proposal is the MP Rumen Georgiev. Vote 68 MPs: 49, against 1, abstention 18. By parliamentary groups: BSP for Bulgaria. 46 for, DPS 1 against, 12 abstentions, VOLIA The editorial proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Hristian Mitev, who replaces the release in the Ministry of Transport, in art. 16a, para. 1. Editorial amendment.. instead of the release.. the proposal...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Vote 67 MPs: 62, none, abstention 5. By parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" 42 for, 2 abstentions, DPS "13 for," "VOLIA" "Bulgarian Rodolivtsi" "6 for, Non-members of PG" 1 for, 3 abstentions. We are voting for the creation of the new § 10. Vote 68 MPs: for 68, against and abstention there is no. According to parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "46" for, "DPS" for, "12" for, "VOLYA" for, "Bulgarian Rhodolists" (Bulgarian Rhodolists) "6 for, "Unmembered in PG" 4 for. The last paragraph is the version of § 10, which becomes § 11 of the Commission Report. They voted 67 MPs: 21, Against 1, abstention 45. By parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "1 against," 45 abstentions, DPS "13 for," "VOLYA" "Bulgarian Rhodolists" "5" for non-members in PG "3" for. By doing so, we have exhausted the vote on this law by the first group. We have one more "Project to amend and supplement the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria." I ask the Defence Committee expert to enter the Chamber so that he can follow the texts as well. I'm voting on the name of the Law. Vote 63 MPs: 49, none, abstention 14. By parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "43" for, 2 abstentions, DPS "12 abstentions," "VOLIA" "Bulgarian Rhodolists" "6" for, non-members in the PG" is not available. Moving on to the creation of a new § 1. Please, voting mode. Vote 63 MPs: 48, none, abstention 15. By parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "41" for, 2 abstentions, DPS 13 abstentions. "VOLIA" "Bulgarian Rhodolyptics" "6" for. Non-members of SG 1 for. Colleagues, I would like to coordinate with you on whether it is possible to vote on paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u198	Super-possible.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-14.u199	Okay. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 1, § 2, which shall become § 2 and § 3, respectively, by renumbering; the version of § 3, which shall become § 4, which shall become § 5; and the version of § 5, which shall become § 6 of the Commission Report. Vote 62 MPs: 11 against 1, abstention 50. By parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "1 against," 1 against, 38 abstentions, DPS 12 abstentions. "VOLIA" "Bulgarian Rhodolyptics" "6" for. Non-members of GG 4 for. I put to the vote the name "Transitional and final provisions." Vote 57 MPs: for 7, against 2, abstention 48. By parliamentary groups:.BSP for Bulgaria......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 6, which shall become § 7. Vote 64 MPs: 10, against 1, abstention 53. By parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "1 against," 40 abstentions, DPS "13 abstentions," We are voting for the unsupported proposal of the MP Tasco Ermenkov. They voted 63 MPs: 39, none, abstention 24. By parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "36" for, 4 abstentions, DPS "13 abstentions," "VOLYA" "Bulgarian Rhodolists" "6 abstentions, Non-members of PG" 3 for, 1 abstention. We are going to vote on the text of the importer for § 7, which becomes § 8; and the text of the importer for § 8, which becomes § 9. Vote 62 MPs: 9 against 1, abstention 52. By parliamentary groups: "BSP for Bulgaria" "1 against," 39 abstentions, DPS "13 abstentions," "VOLYA" "Bulgarian Rhodolists" "5 for non-members in PG" 4 for. That's it, colleagues, for the first group. Thank you. For the next plenary session, we will inform you further. Happy Easter Holidays, everyone! [[Vote groups shall be replaced.]] Colleagues, please take your seats. We're starting the vote on the second group. We begin with the first point of the decision to amend and supplement the decision on the work of the National Assembly during a state of emergency announced by a decision of the National Assembly. Importers " Christian Vigenin" and a group of MPs. Please decide on a vote. They voted 92 MPs: for no, against 1, abstention 91. By parliamentary groups: GERB 1 against and 79 abstentions, United Patriarchs. Total: 53, Against 7, abstention 107. The offer is not accepted. We move on to the second item of the Second Voting of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Energy Act. I put to the vote the editorial amendment, which made Mr. Nikolov to amend, is dismissed, becomes only an addition to the Energy Act. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions. By parliamentary groups: GERB Total: 168 for, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. The secretaries confirm it. I put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law with the editorial amendment made. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. By parliamentary groups: GERB Total: 166, no opposition and no abstention. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the version of § 1 of the Commission Report. Vote 96 MPs: 95, against no, abstention 1. By parliamentary groups: GERB 82 for, 1 abstention, Total: 168, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the name of the division of the Law, which the Commission supports. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. By parliamentary groups: GERB Total: 163, no opposition and no abstention. The motion is accepted. We move on to the version of Paragraph 2 of the Commission Report. They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. By parliamentary groups: GERB Total: 164, no objection, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We move on to the version of § 3 of the Commission Report. Vote 95 MPs: for 94, against no, abstention 1. By parliamentary groups: GERB "82" for, abstention 1, "United Patriarchs." 12 for. Total: 165, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the newly created § 4. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. By parliamentary groups: GERB Total: 163, no opposition and no abstention. The offer is accepted. The last vote is the text of the importer for § 4, which becomes § 5, supported by the Commission. They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. By parliamentary groups: GERB Total: 162, no objection, abstention 1. The proposal is accepted, and with this, the entire bill. We move on to the third item on the agenda - Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Commercial Register Act and the register of non-profit legal entities. First, we vote on the text of the importer for the name of the Law. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. By parliamentary groups: GERB Total: 162, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for §1. They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. By parliamentary groups: GERB Total: 163, no opposition and no abstention. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the newly born § 2. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. By parliamentary groups: GERB Total: 165, no opposition and no abstention. The motion is accepted. We vote on the text of the importer for § 2 which becomes § 3. They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. By parliamentary groups: GERB Total: 162, against 2, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the rejection of § 3. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. By parliamentary groups: GERB Total: 155, no objection, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 4. They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. By parliamentary groups: GERB Total: 162, no objection and no abstention. The motion is accepted. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the division. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. By parliamentary groups: GERB Total: 166, no opposition and no abstention. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the version of § 5 of the Commission Report. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions. By parliamentary groups: GERB Total: 117 against 46 abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We vote on the text of the importer for § 6. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions. By parliamentary groups: GERB Total: 163, no opposition and no abstention. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the version of Paragraph 7 of the Commission Report. They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. By parliamentary groups: GERB Total: 163, no opposition and no abstention. The motion is accepted. We are voting for the version of § 8 of the Commission Report. They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. By parliamentary groups: GERB Total: 160, against and abstention no. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 9. They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. By parliamentary groups: GERB Total: 165, no opposition and no abstention. The motion is accepted. We are voting separately for the editorial amendment of the new § 10 on a proposal from the MP Mr. Sabanov. First we vote art. 16a, para. 1. Please, voting mode. They voted 94 MPs: 15 against none, 79 abstentions. By parliamentary groups: GERB 2 for, 79 abstentions, Total: 72, no objection, abstention 92. The offer is not accepted. We are voting the second paragraph on Mr. Sabanov's proposal. They voted 93 MPs: 15 against none, 78 abstentions. By parliamentary groups: GERB 2 for, 78 abstentions, Total: 64, no objection, abstention 101. The offer is not accepted. We move on to the next editorial proposal from the National Representative Dragomir Stoinev. Please, voting mode. Vote 94 MPs: 9 against 1, abstention 84. By parliamentary groups: GERB 1 against, 80 abstentions, Total: 58, against 1, abstention 107. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova. Please, voting mode. Vote 92 MPs: for no, against 5, abstention 87. By parliamentary groups: GERB 3 against, 76 abstentions, Total: 49, against 5, abstention 110. I put to the vote Mrs. Alexandrova's editorial proposal. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. By parliamentary groups: GERB Total: 161, no opposition and no abstention. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the editorial proposal of the MP Rumen Georgiev. Please, voting mode. They voted 93 MPs: for no, against 12, abstention 81. By parliamentary groups: GERB 1 against, 80 abstentions, Total: 49, against 13, abstention 99. The offer is not accepted. Finally, the editorial amendment of the National Representative Christian Mitev. Please, voting mode. Vote 95 MPs: 14 against none, abstention 81. By parliamentary groups: GERB Total: 76, not against, abstention 86. The offer is not accepted. I shall put the entire new § 10 to the vote with the corresponding editorial amendment adopted. Please, voting mode. Vote 91 MPs: 90, against no, abstention 1. By parliamentary groups: GERB "78" for, "United Patriarchs" "12" for, 1 abstention. Vote 158 MPs: for 157, none, abstention 1. And the last paragraph of this law is the version of § 10, which becomes § 11 of the Commission Report. Please, voting mode. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. By parliamentary groups: GERB Total: 116 against 1, abstention 45. The motion has been passed, and with that, the entire Law. We are moving on to the final item on the agenda of the Second Voting of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Defence and Armed Forces Act. Firstly, colleagues, we vote on the name of the Law. Please, voting mode. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. By parliamentary groups: GERB Total: 146, no objection, 14 abstentions. The motion is accepted. We are voting now the newly born § 1. They voted 93 MPs: for 93 against and abstentions, there is no. By parliamentary groups: GERB Total: 141 for, not against, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. We are voting for the entry of the importer for § 1, which becomes § 2; the text of the importer for § 2, which becomes § 3; the version of § 3, which becomes § 4 of the Commission Report; the text of the importer for § 4, which becomes § 5; and the version of § 5, which becomes § 6 of the Commission Report. They voted 93 MPs: 92, none, abstention 1. By parliamentary groups: GERB 79 for, 1 abstention, Total: 103, against 1, abstention 51. The motion is accepted. We vote on the name of the division. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. By parliamentary groups: GERB Total: 96, against 2, abstention 48. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 6, which shall become § 7. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. By parliamentary groups: GERB Total: 97 against 1, abstention 53. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Tasco Ermenkov. 90 MPs voted: 1 against 86, abstention 3. By parliamentary groups: GERB 1 for, 77 against, United Patriarchs "9 against," 3 abstentions. Total: 40 against 86, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the tablock text of the importer for § 7, which becomes § 8, and the text of the importer for § 8, which becomes § 9 They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. By parliamentary groups: GERB Total: 100 against 1, abstention 52. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, thank you. This was the last law we voted on today. The next plenary session will be further notified. I am closing today's plenary session and wish you a bright Easter holidays! [[PHONE RINGING]]
