ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, hello, everyone! Put on the masks. Again, I would remind you that not wearing masks in plenary is not desirable, but mandatory. Let's not abuse. There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Procedure Mr. Jablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u2	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! All of us are sufficiently responsible for the epidemic situation in the Republic, we are monitoring the responsible decisions of the government, the more responsible actions of the executive in terms of the epidemic situation. None of us underestimate the situation. I must make this declaration to distinguish what I have to say in a moment. Yesterday, on national televisions and on other electronic media, the public representatives who do not wear masks, smile, talk to each other and, so to speak, disturb the public order. I would like to stress that the National Assembly is written in the first chapter after the Laws. I demand that the management of the National Assembly do everything possible to put an end to electronic terror on the MPs, their discreditation in televisions and other means of information, selection, inappropriate display and inflicting moral and other damage on individual MPs. This media and other bacchanal on the Bulgarian National Assembly undermines the authority of the institution, the MPs individually and the parliamentary character of the Republic, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u3	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u4	I demand that you take all measures to protect the MPs from such abuse. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. You have your reasons, but I think we should start following the measures ourselves. [[speaking indistinctly]] and that thing will then be debated once we have fulfilled our obligations. We've got a bill coming in. This is the Bill implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/125 of 16 January 2019 of the European Parliament and of the Council on trade in certain goods which could be used for the application of death penalty, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment... [[Noise and lines.]] Okay, I'll hear it. ...of cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment and punishment. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism is the lead. It has also been allocated to the Commission for Monitoring Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling. Let's continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. Debates on asking by the MPs Iskren Veselinov and Alexander Siddi to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva on fragmented legislation in social policy. The question is about fragmented legislation in social policy. Before I give the floor to the presentation, I would like to remind you that Iskren Veselinov and Alexander Siddy were responsible for the meeting on June 19, Friday. At the same meeting, 49 MPs from the Parliamentary Group of the United Patriarchs and the Political Party GERB submitted a proposal for a debate on the questioning together with the Project for a Decision. The debates are scheduled by the President of the National Assembly for the next parliamentary control meeting. A draft decision to be voted on has been introduced. On behalf of the importers, who will present the proposal for a debate? Here you go, Mr. Siddy. And the solution project, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, in the last year the Social Services Act is one of the hot spots in our society, there were dozens of protests, tens of thousands of Bulgarian citizens, protesting some of the texts in the Social Services Act. This also required its postponement in order to make adjustments to the texts that are not liked in the Bulgarian society. During this postponement and at all the meetings that we have made, we have actually understood that the problem is not only in the Social Services Act, but in all the fragmented legislation in this area, which ultimately leads to not knowing who from where and what social benefits it receives, not having a unified system, not having a single law under which social assistance is to take place in the country. At all these protests, the talks with the people we made, we talked one thing: that the way to solve their particular problem through the Social Services Act, as well as all the other problems in this area, is one and that is to remove this fragmented legislation, to abolish all these laws, but not to remain a legal vacuum and accordingly to codify this topic in a common code of social services, in which to know which Bulgarian citizen what kind of help he can receive, and therefore all these taps to be collected into a single tap, and to remove those texts, which accordingly lead to tensions of people on the street. That is why we submitted a question last week to Minister Sacheva and she answered the question. He said that really in this direction there should be work to be done to codify this legislation, and we have submitted a draft decision which I will now read with which the National Assembly will oblige the Ministry to work in this direction. I hope we can make some wonderful texts that will stop public tensions and finally solve the problems in this area. The solution we propose is this: On the grounds of Article 1, paragraph 1, point (a) is replaced by the following: 90, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 105, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Within four months, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy shall prepare and present to the National Assembly an analysis of the current legislation on social assistance and propose a concept of its cumulation. 2. Within six months, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy shall present to the National Assembly a draft code of social support to unite the overall state policy in this area in a single legal act. We hope that, by the end of the forty-fourth National Assembly, we will be able to codify the area of social assistance, we will be able to stop the tensions that are on the street, and we will be able to finally put an order on every Bulgarian citizen to be able to receive his adequate assistance, to know from one tap, to check all these people so that there is no possibility of distortion in the system and thus to regulate the whole process at last. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u7	Thank you, Mr. Siddy. My fellow Members, I am opening the debate. Before that, however, I would like to report the weather. It is in accordance with art. 105, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure and it shall not apply the extension procedure under art. 58, para. 2. You have the floor to speak. Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u8	Dear colleagues, complete absurd flour throw, fog do! There couldn't have been a parliament with a shortage of lawyers like this. There was this guy from BSP, he got up and went and became mayor in Ruse. There was one at the stand, held plenary sessions one of the great lawyers of Bulgaria Mr. Notev, you removed him from the parliamentary tribune, you put Mr. Simeonov. You see, the difference is like heaven and earth. [[Laughter]] And now Mr. Siddy is a famous Bulgarian lawyer from the theory and practice presents us with a brilliant proposal. It's an age-old simple thing to do about social security. Mrs. Minister, it's a full spread, just like the masked one! Someone somewhere has decided to make a code to bring all this legislation together in one place. No way, guys! All lawyers know that by law and by the Constitution, and by law theory, professors from Sofia University, not by other universities, not that I underestimate them, but by the Sofia University to tell you, Minister, when codes are made, how everything is inserted into one place by French law already, by Napoleon's time, by Code civil, by Italian law, by the Penal Code, by the Family Code and which areas of the law are subject to coding. And why is all this being done here? To move away, again I say, the tensions, to dizzy things, to pass the Social Services Act, by promising: yes, this Social Services Act will pass, but we will make a code where we will fix things. The only way right now is not to make a code on this matter, but to abolish the Social Services Act. Here's the demagogy, and some run away from it. The old IMRO practice I've been telling you about, I'm not telling you about NFSB, and IMRO is doing it. I was in the kitchen, and I know how it's done. One week, five or six days, five, six, seven people from IMRO in five, six, seven TV stations are blowing up a topic.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u9	Mr. Shopov, if you'll excuse me, I'm listening very carefully! I've given you enough time to justify your speech. I expect you to get into the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u10	Yes, it is matter that speaks, talks, talks about a matter and then disappears, but they give the impression that they are caring MPs that they are being taken into consideration for importing bills. It's the same now. The issue is not to make a code in relation to social services. That's impossible, too. Why don't they bring it in and see it, and they'll assign it to the Council of Ministers? The entities for legislative initiative to be MPs or a group of MPs, on the one hand, and on the other, the Council of Ministers, with equal rights. But they're not gonna bring it in because it's impossible to work it out, nor does it make any sense and any use of submitting such a code. But talking, the initiative will stay. A legislative initiative will be imitated, a desire to bring something useful into this matter. All today's questioning is also with this aim to turn the screens tonight: ow, from IMRO a scary initiative, offer to submit a Code of Social Services. No way, guys!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. I listened to you very carefully! I've been thinking about some things, and I totally agree with what I'm thinking. [[Radio.]] You have the floor, Mr. Zablyanov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u12	Mr. Chairman, you're in a very special mood today. Madam Minister, dear Members of the House! Dear Mr. Shopov, about the codification. Napoleon Bonaparte wasn't a lawyer, he was an artilleryman. That's why he's done the codification. His main motive was to simplify the complicated law in the French Republic after revolutionary times so that it could be judged easily and simply. That was the emperor's main motive. So, at all, there's not much that is related to the coding of the law as an approach, so to speak, to the protection of the rights. There's a whole other base. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. Another line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Shopov? I won't. We are continuing the debate. Mr. Gokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u14	Dear Minister, honourable Members, honourable Mr. Chairman! Europe has a relatively high level of social protection and offers a good standard of living, which is based on good social legislation. There people are not interested in fragmented or codifying it, but what it offers. Bulgaria in this area is also the last place. The economic crises of recent years have greatly influenced the social sphere and have made the face of today's social reality. Part of the problem is that because of the neoliberal mechanisms implemented, despite increasing opportunities, social support remains as if underdeveloped and the resources allocated to social services are relatively few and the people in our society as a whole are convinced that even the few funds are being distributed unfairly and do not reach those who need them. This requires not so much codification as updating, updating and filling with the content of our social legislation. As much as we defragment legislation in the social sphere, we will not succeed if we do not put it on a new basis, namely, support to those who need it most. Otherwise, I also argue that our entire social system, including legislation, is the result of continuous, chaotic changes, from decisions taken under pressure and, figuratively speaking, aimed at extinguishing fires and clogging holes. This has led to the absence of overall logic and to the lack of focus on those who most need support and support. Experts are adamant that social reform is needed. But as governors over the entire term of office, you did so in the social sphere with the adoption of three or four laws. Now, at the end of the term of office, do you remember that this must be codified as legislation? What, and who's been bothering you so far? Before putting the issue back on the public's radar, you must admit that you have created non-concessive legislation, part of which causes serious tensions among many of the public; admit that you did not get to make serious and radical changes in social policies and new legislation, which would follow the logic of our country's 2012 UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. I find the subject you raise to be of interest, but not new and original. I would remind you that according to the Action Plan of the Republic of Bulgaria for the implementation of the 2012 Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in the context of this Convention at the end of 2016 we should have concepts of changes in the regulatory framework as well. We are now 2020. Although you claim that there is a reform in the social sphere, you are talking again about clarifying state policy in the social sphere, you want more analyses, concepts, codification, new codes. Is it not strange that you maintain a new delay in the time of some of the legislation adopted, such as the Social Services Act? In fact, what is your codifying policy regarding the social sphere? It's the decision. Analysis yes, but once again I ask: do you deny what you have so far analyzed, done and accepted? Coding yes, but I ask: what have you done so far? With what thought did you make all this reform that now, at the end of the term, you remembered that everything that has been done so far is fragmented legislation, and now it is time to codify? The Code of Social Support is yes, but after the so-called social reform took over more than 8 years, how, in six months or for the remaining time of the mandate, will you work out and present to the National Assembly a draft Code of Social Support, which I quote: "To unite the overall state policy in the social sphere in a single act?" It is not so important that social legislation is collected into a code, it is more important what is written in this legislation and how it is adopted by society. However, at first glance, I appreciate your intention as good, but either you have no idea what you want or you set other goals. I suspect that you are doing a service to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy in order to put the Social Services Act into effect, and that all protesters should be reassured: "Don't protest, we will make the Code of Social Support and everything will be fine, so that by the end of the term the number can be dialed down, if I may say so. And when the elections come, your entire election campaign will go under the sign of what a good Code of Social Support you will do and what nice things will it say. minimum pension and recalculation of all pensions. I will not overlook the hidden desire which sees in this intention the annulment of the Personal Aid Act and its introduction into the future code, but in a compromise and state-friendly option. I would not support, I would rather refrain from supporting such a proposal for a decision by the National Assembly, and I would rather vote abstention on it, even though, once again, the proposal is interesting and we have something to think about and what we have done during the entire mandate for 3 years in the social sphere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u15	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. - What's the line? Here you are, Mr. Vesselinoff, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u16	Dear Minister, dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Gokov! It's not about what we've been doing for the last three years, it's about what you've been doing for the last 30 years? That's the main question. The social assistance system is not something that happens in these three years. She has her defects. Maybe these three years haven't made a substantial contribution to them. The truth is, we're trying to solve a problem by patching up the laws. We cannot have a person wishing, for example, to abuse our social legislation, so-called social parasite groups, to receive a ton of aid without anyone taking into account what they finally receive. You can't get in line for monthly, one-time rent, child support and so on, and finally, drawing the line, it's better not to work, but to hang on the social system. This is a problem that we are not putting into place today, but placing it for 15 years. The time has come for this problem to be resolved. I think for the first time, the majority has the courage not to comply with who's going to say that they're being denied rights or privileges. The truth is that social support in Bulgaria should be aimed at helping people, supporting them when they are in need, but not always being in need and abused. After all, we also have some resource that we help with. Yes, we can increase taxes, for example, at your request, and give everyone exactly as much as they want. We will be the most social state. Question is, who's gonna pay? My line is: try to fit all the vices of our social legislation in the three years, because it is perverted slowly and long to be what it is now.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u17	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Second line? I can't see. Mr. Gokov, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Veselinov, I have heard a lot of strange things from the stands from you right now. I do not think that BSP is responsible for the situation in the social sphere over the past 30 years, because for the last 10 years, for example, they have managed other people and could fix what they want in this legislation, in which you believe a defeat has been done by the management of BSP, for example. I will tell you many good things in the social sphere, done during the so-called Triple Coalition, for example, the commitment of social benefits to going to school for children and a number of other things that I will not have time to list from this tribune. You're explaining to me about the social system, but you haven't worked in this system, and I've worked and I know how it works. I suppose a lot of people from the parliamentary group, from your parliamentary group, how to say, have a look at this social system. However, I have not understood these three years in any way you listen to what the opposition has spoken to you, including the adoption of the Social Services Act. We accepted it with applause, but there were many proposals that no one had taken into account anyway. I understand your consistent policy that some people take very seriously the social system at the expense of others. Therefore, I say that we must put legislation on a new basis where aid in the social system or support, support goes to those who really need it, and most of all. Since our social system does not have huge amounts of aid, so the few funds should really go to those who need them most. At the moment, however, people are not convinced that this is happening, as you are not convinced that it is. My understanding is that maybe we should do some codifying of social legislation, but why now? Three years, three and a half years has remained for half a year until the end of the term, we have been working on some reform, asked, say, by society, or set by earlier, when in 2012 the Action Plan was adopted to implement the practice of the Bulgarian ratified Convention on People with Disabilities. Since 2012, we have been doing something that, suddenly, you are becoming and saying: "Well, so far we have done something, but it has been chaotic and now we have to re-enter it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u19	Thank you, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u20	Last sentence to Mr. Veselinov. You've been talking all this time. We've been trying to decide, trying to do. Don't try, do it, because only by trying we get here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u21	Thank you. I ask the Quaestors to distribute masks to their forgotten ones. Mr. Bikov, come in for a statement on behalf of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u22	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On behalf of the GERB parliamentary group, I would like to express my clear disagreement with what Mr. Zablyanov said here just now. We do not believe that photographing lawmakers without a mask is an outrage over MPs and that it is selective. I'll remind you that people were photographed without masks. And half your parliamentary group yesterday was maskless, at least half. The fact that you have left without masks and entered here in violation of rules which we have all agreed together that we should follow, provided that the health minister gives orders for all Bulgarian citizens to wear masks under certain conditions and they are fined, it is normal for the media to show interest in how the rules of the National Assembly are respected. I would remind you that a few months ago, when we declared a state of emergency and the decision was made to have the media in the Chamber of the East, a number of colleagues from the BSP described this as almost touching the freedom of speech in Bulgaria and hindering the work of the media.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u23	Invasion!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u24	Now you're calling bullying the fact that the media have come down to the room and filmed whatever they want. There's no way we can tell the media who to shoot and who not to film. We can't tell them who to show and who not to show. Obviously they have shown individuals who are prominent to your party, who are recognizable and would be interesting to be put on the news for one reason or another or in other broadcasts. We strongly disagree with the fact that the media should, in one way or another, be restricted through parliament's leadership and be shown which people to film and who not to film or to photograph only us. You are not so sensitive when the media is after us, of course, for one reason or another, fair or unfair. Unfortunately and luckily, the media are a fact, and they are a fact in a democratic country with free...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u25	111th place.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u26	111th place. Looks like you're a media defender now. Until a while ago, you called them bullies, now they're at 111. In order not to be 111th place, I think such comments from this tribune are not admissible. The media is an inconvenience to the political elite in a democratic environment. This is a fact, but they are one of the main facts that outline the democracy of a state. And if we from this tribune allow ourselves to give advice to the media about what to do and what not to do, how to do it and how not to do it, why to do it and why not, sooner or later we will get to where we started to struggle to have freedom of speech and such things that should be implied. When politicians are uncomfortable, citizens are usually comfortable. Our work here is also with a personal example of trying to build trust in institutions. What is our personal example? When there is a minister's order, all people are obliged to obey it, and we are here because we are almost some nomenclature, we must do whatever we want. [[Noise and lines.]] Let's just be calm. Knowing that it will be the same from now on and taking into account this situation, because we have a duty to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u27	Thank you, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u28	It's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u29	On a declaration of personal explanation...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u30	I've been mentioned, there's no way.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u31	Yeah, you're mentioned.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u32	So it's not a declaration then.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u33	It's a declaration.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u34	Well, if I'm mentioned by name, what kind of a statement is it?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u35	That doesn't mean anything. Should I swallow that you're taking your word for it without me giving it to you or taking action?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u36	According to your discretion. [[Noise and lines.]] Dear Mr. Bikov, I understand your desire to gain political points from the situation. It is on these conjunctural battles that are interpersonal and interparty in the National Assembly that the continuing erosion of the authority of our institution is due. Citizens' rights are not protected solely and entirely by the media. The rights of citizens are impropriety or inherent to each of us, proclaimed by the Constitution. Media can also violate citizens' rights. If you're not aware of this, then you've only read Chapter One of the Right Theory. Media can violate rights, they can abuse. Currently, public media in the world are run by giant private media concerns, which include televisions, social networks and everything else that we can think of................................that work in national and supranational territories, in the seas and in space. This, as an institution, as networks and as technological opportunities, goes far beyond the possibility of individual citizen, MP, politician, minister, director of department of ministry, general, Field Marshal defending his rights. It's a giant power. If you come from the notion of the division of the authorities of the 18th century and of the fact that there are newspapers of the Guardian, of the Tribune, or of France, a Figaro, or something else, this is an archaic idea...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u37	Finish, Mr. Jablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u38	...for the opportunities, role and place of the media in the modern world. I advise you to update and then read declarations.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u39	[[GERB, from place]] : In the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u40	I will remain true to myself and I will not use the disciplinary part of the Rules, but please comply... [[Reply from the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov.]] Please don't get into an argument with me, because right now you're wrong.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u41	Well, you're right. You're not the Rules. The rules are for everyone.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u42	In the manner of conduct, Mr. Tzipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u43	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Honourable President, I appeal to you, you have committed a serious violation of the Rules of Procedure by allowing a Member of Parliament a personal explanation of a declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group. Dear Members of the National Assembly, we are all Bulgarian citizens and we have obligations under the Constitution other than rights. Dear Mr. Chairman, you are conducting today's meeting in a manner that is unacceptable. We are broadcasting an extremely bad signal by debating whether we have obligations under the Constitution, should we respect these obligations under the Constitution, and in fact we exchange lines with which we give an extremely bad example to all Bulgarian citizens, honourable Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u44	Thank you, Mr. Tzipov. You're absolutely right! You are absolutely right, except that there was a violation, and the signals that the National Assembly was broadcasting at the time are incorrect, unnecessary and do not honor us. Mr. Kutev. [[The National Representative Anton Kutev is walking towards the stands. Replies from OP: "Slow down, slow down. "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u45	Some can afford it. [[Laughter and excitement.]] Dear Mr. Chairman, I would ask you, before I begin, to bring order to this House. Apparently, the coworkers are nervous. Colleague importers, I would say that your attempt to codify in four months is funny if for many people in Bulgaria it was not dramatic. If we remove the transcripts of the National Assembly, I think that the main topic of this National Assembly will be that it was also social services and people with disabilities. Since the first month of the National Assembly so far, this topic has been key all the time, along with all the protests, along with all the changes, with all the things that you have been through. Three and a half years you, the majority and the government, failed to make the Social Services Act, which you had promised yourself in 2016. During the whole period of this National Assembly you could not make a Social Services Act that is key to the sector and is difficult, so only the government could do it. Now you come here and tell me that in four months you're going to codify legislation, but that's ridiculous. Mr. Siddy, I know you well. You're not a stupid person at all. The fact that you're proposing this thing only means that you're actually looking for other things. Both you and the minister know very well that in four months neither can nor want to codify this legislation. You're just trying to distribute right now, fight those two groups of people who are protesting. However, I do have news for you. The one group you're going to fight with the other group are those poor, miserable people who really need support. They need the Social Services Act. They need social legislation. They have a sharp need for the state to support them through the legislation that you are putting off all the time, making half or thinking of codifying when you just have to do it to work. Some of these people, once again, I say it in this room, they won't live to see you co-ordinate. They need help now. This is the clash of this National Assembly, and every attempt to trick again with words that you are doing here to postpone assistance to those people to whom our society is absolutely indebted to people with disabilities, because they are the part that has no chance of coping, and we are writing Europeans here. We are not Europeans until those people can't get out of their houses until they have the babysitters to provide them with their daily, most basic human rights. We are not Europeans! That's what you're putting off right now. This is another attempt in which you are trying most vulgarly to confront groups of people to postpone the entry of a quality legislation. Three and a half years you didn't make this legislation, now you're gonna give me four months of codification.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u46	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. A line? Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u47	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! Dear Mr. Kutev, at least you should have bothered before you went out on this high stage to read the decision of the importers itself because it contains two points. Nowhere in your speech does it become clear that the first in-depth analysis must be carried out is the first point of the signed decision, which is also signed by the MPs of the GERB Parliamentary Group, and based on this in-depth analysis of the legislation in force in the social sphere with a period of four months to come up with a proposal and to make this mapping of social assistance legislation within six months. Not four, but six months. And what you want to mention to the House and to the audience who will see your statement that, you see, we are covering something up that we do not want the legislation to come into force to support people with disabilities and, in particular, the Social Services Act, I would like to tell you that it is ready and next week on 1 July is coming into force. Your parliamentary group also supported by rejecting the two bills to postpone and repeal the Social Services Act. It is necessary and from next week will be a fact.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. A hole, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u49	Mrs. Angelova, thank you for the line, because she'll give me a little more time, which I didn't have. In addition, thank you for making this line, because you are the previous Chairman of the Committee on Social Services, and if there is currently no codified legislation in this area, by the way, it is your own fault. You knew that the Law should be ready in 2016 and not in 2017, when this National Assembly started working for it, and before that, when you were Chairman and when you adopted the Plan for Integration of Disabled People, so here you have your own faults. Blameing me for not reading that decision that I've been carrying all along is, to put it mildly, silly. I mean, I can't help but read it. It's read fast. I went out with him. In this decision it very clearly says what needs to be done, not to mention that it is not factually how is social support and what is the ratio of social support and social services, this is another matter. What is the essence of the decision? I do not want to go into this whole conversation at all, because there is a lot of criticism there, but I will save that. I went out to make a purely political statement to make it clear who solves the problems in the country, who does not solve them and who is responsible for not being solved. And by the way, thank you for making the line, because you are one of these people personally and personally, yes, with the position you have held in the Committee on Labour and Social Policy all this time. And now, both before and as a member of GERB, and as a particularly active participant in all these laws, because in the end you are the person who from your parliamentary group, as far as I know, is responsible for this legislation or at least you are taking active part. So if you were in your place during the years in which you were Chairman of the Social Commission, during the time that GERB managed, if you as a majority had done your job with regard to people with disabilities and social services, now would not be this situation. And I guarantee you that the protests will not stop them with this shallow move. Yes, you do. On the contrary, these real protests, because one of them, I don't know what you're thinking, one of them has some... You could fix the laws, but the other part wants its rights. And even by adopting this social legislation, you do not provide them with the rights. You provide a small part of them. A step in the right direction is if we continue not to postpone the Social Services Act if we find a way in this law to satisfy other citizens who have their doubts and fears. Great! That's what we need to do, but what we need to do next is deepen this whole thing and get to the real protection of people with disabilities and people in social retardation. That's what we need to do, and what you're proposing today, what you're saying I haven't read, frankly, quite naively, I'm not going to give a harder definition of whether this thing leads there? It leads you in the opposite direction, and the minister lady, as well as the people who brought it in very well know where it leads. It leads to a dampening of circumstances.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u50	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Minister! I have the opportunity to take the floor after the previous one, who made personal attacks on me, that, you see, I am guilty of not being prepared by the Social Services Act in 2016, provided that I, first of all, have never been from the 41st, 42nd and 43rd National Assembly Chairman of the Labour Commission, Social and Demographic Policy. In the previous 43rd National Assembly, Dr. Hassan Ademov was chairman. Next, not MPs have drawn up the draft Law on Social Services, but this project, which has been working for several years by a working group, is the work of experts from various departments under the leadership of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. Why is it not a fact in 2016? You know very well, Mr. Kutev, that the mandate of the 43rd National Assembly was terminated early in January 2017. Now let's move on to the essence of the subject that we are debating in terms of fragmented social policy legislation. I believe that this debate is necessary and timely. The fact that other representatives took part in this debate, not the Social Committee, shows that it is of interest. The social assistance system is an important element of the overall social protection system. It has been based on legislation for nearly 20 years, which, although it provides the necessary framework at present for carrying out an adequate policy, currently, in the first place, needs an in-depth analysis of the strengths and weaknesses of the current legislation in the field of social assistance. In recent years, social legislation has been repeatedly supplemented and amended. During the last one year we have adopted three perfectly new laws. The Law on People with Disabilities, the Law on Personal Aid, the Law on Social Services. All this calls for this legislation to support, to protect the most vulnerable groups of society to be united so that it can be more targeted and for people who really need support, to have a complex approach and to receive adequate support from the state. Over the years, a number of tools have been created to overcome social inequalities. These are the various social benefits provided under the Social Assistance Act, the different financial support, the social services. In the context of the crisis with SOVID-19, we have clearly seen how important the social sphere is to vulnerable groups of society. These are mostly the lonely elderly, the disabled, the unemployed, but the best way for these vulnerable groups to guarantee their rights, which need State assistance, is to provide an optimal opportunity for their social inclusion, namely to introduce a new approach to the regulation of social support, to move from specialized legislation regulating the different forms of support of vulnerable groups to carcinogenic legislation. Whether it will be called a Code of Social Protection or a Code of Social Assistance, it does not matter, it is important to make such a common document based on a systematic approach and synergies. However, for this purpose, a comprehensive analysis of the overall legal framework in the field of social assistance and social services is needed and a concept for its comparability is proposed. The analysis is necessary to establish the relationship between different forms of support, support and the effect of these forms of support. In the context of a strong fragmentation of the regulatory framework, the analysis may also show the potential for increasing its efficiency and effectiveness. Next, this analysis can prove that precisely this approach, which currently includes the entire arsenal of measures and policies, the various types of aid, social support, social services, social payments, is the optimal option for the development of the system. The analysis may and should also provide up-to-date information on the structure of vulnerable social groups, which is a necessary condition for carrying out an effective, adequate social policy. The purpose of the codification is to overcome the fragmentation of legislation in the field of social support and social inclusion and thus to develop a single, common regulatory act containing a general order, conditions, procedures for social support of the most vulnerable groups in society. Codification will optimize the administrative and functional structure of the system, as well as improve interdepartmental coordination and interaction, and all of this will contribute to a more efficient and more efficient financial management of the overall social support system. Within the scope of codification of legal matter, the following legal acts should fall: these are the Social Assistance Act, the Family Aid Act for Children, the Disabilities Act, the Personal Aid Act and the Social Services Act. Social protection should include a set of measures relating to financial support and the provision of quality social services or personal assistance, applying the differentiated approach, according to the needs of the person, for a simplified administrative procedure. That is precisely the purpose of the codified legislation in this area. In this way, we will achieve a systematic commitment to the legal framework of social support for vulnerable groups of society. This support from the State will be more effective, more consistent, targeted, without the risk of establishing dependence and social exclusion, under clear rules and conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u52	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Popovski, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u53	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mrs. Minister! By also supporting this item as an importer on the agenda, I would like to point out a few things that are important in figures and that colleagues who are not members of the Social Committee should be aware. To say that Bulgaria is not a social state is slightly incorrect because the budget of state social security, I only recall, is 12 billion. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. collect in installments... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] It doesn't matter! 4 billion. lv. from the big budget of Bulgaria goes to the budget of state social security. By different laws, we go to this family for what benefits it can take. The Social Aid Act and the Family Aid Act for Children, the multi-child families in Bulgaria, which are part of the marginal layers, after the sixth child children's supplements are already more than one minimum salary for the country and the other Social Aid Act is another 440 BGN. of a family, i.e. a family that has more than six children, without anyone working, takes a little over 1,000 leva per month, which are part of the big budget and the people who actually work have more than 560 leva. a demarcation line and they don't get child benefits for their income being higher. Can you imagine what public sentiments are at the moment for those who take child support and those who do not take? There is a severe dissonance there, and most of you in their receptions for the citizens I am sure are asked such questions. So we want to align, as we said, and the tap, and at all to be funding from one place to know, because now one family takes one piece of money, according to the other law, others, which turn out to be very few. All of this weighs on the budget of the state and this is our idea to unify funding in order to have a better order in the future and that is why we delegate the rights to the experts from the Social Ministry who can deal with this heavy programme within a few months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u54	Thank you, Mr. Popovski. Here's a line for you, Mr. Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u55	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, colleagues! Dear Doctor Popovski, in your speech, you have touched on the fact that the main problem in the field of social policy is the incorrect allocation of money support under the Social Assistance Act and the Family Aid Act for children. In the form of a reply, my question to you is: how many legislative changes did your parliamentary group and personally you did after meeting with your numerous local voters to change these two laws to be, so to speak, regulated these injustices contained in them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u56	Thank you. Second line? I can't see. Mr. Popovski, you have the floor for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u57	My fellow Member, if we made an extravagant proposal to all families who have three children to take the same child benefit, would you agree? This is the most normal and most social, not some families with 10 children to take for 10 children child benefits, and the others, which are above the demarcation line of 560 BGN, do not take anything. So we can think about it further in this document to enter something the way it is in many countries in the world. There is not such a demarcation line as there is in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u58	Thank you, Mr. Popovski. Here you go, Mrs. Jeleva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u59	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, first of all, I would like to remind you when this idea was first created to create a Code of Social Protection. The first time you used this life-saving straw was when the scandal with the thousands of disabled people had no personal assistants. Then, to use the time to beat the ball, as usual happens, you said this thunder idea. Why do you have to use this crisis PR one more time? Because tension is huge and the discontent of the people on both sides who are arguing whether or not there is a Social Services Act. I would like to say that this Social Services Act is one of the biggest failures in the social sphere of this government and I will say why. Because people have long been waiting for social policy reform, a step forward has begun, but you have failed to create a balance between the two groups and to propose consensus changes in the Law if necessary, but this only happens with political will and leadership and a little more reason. When you use such a bubble, which will also happen now, because you think that this way you will overcome the problem is not going to happen. The problems have been accumulated for years, but poverty and social exclusion will not change with a single code. Because what are you gonna do? You will create a common law which you call the Code of Social Protection by collecting all the laws. So what? Are we going to change that for years the guaranteed minimum income is BGN 75, on the basis of which all social benefits are determined? Will you change the salaries of social workers who have been protesting about this for years? This was laid down in this law that standards would be raised. No, that won't change if there's not enough money in the budget. Social policy requires more funds. That is so. And if they are not laid down, whatever law you create, that will not change. I will proceed to the decision that is being offered to us today. What do you mean by that? 1 That within four months the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy must draw up a concept for codifying social policy laws. That's right, four months. That's right before the budget procedure. Tell us how nice things you'll do for people with disabilities, elderly people, children and so on, those who are most vulnerable. The Ministry of Labour must propose and develop a ready Code of Social Support within six months. You see, here's the key to what you're proposing to us. In six months, the budget procedure will have passed and it doesn't matter what you propose, because there will be no money at stake for these good things to happen. Finally, I would like to say that we will abstain because in another delusion to the most vulnerable we will not participate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u60	Who are the most vulnerable?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Jeleva. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Madame Minister! Along with and despite the discussion with masks and no masks, I would like to talk about a social policy without masks, or otherwise, to talk about a social policy based on an in-depth knowledge of the legislation in force and on an idea of what should be done with it. A few moments ago, we heard things in some of the speeches that do not exist either in legal peace or in legislation or in law enforcement practices. Why am I saying this? Because I have said before from this tribune that we should distinguish between social security, a difference between social support, a difference between policy for people with disabilities, a difference between policy for children and families, a difference in policies for child protection, a difference in family policies and so on. These are different sections of social policy. What is the idea and why IMRO colleagues, I suppose, propose this solution? Colleagues, in art. 48 of the Constitution it is said that all Bulgarian citizens have the right to work and it is no coincidence that the legislator was codifying the matter related to labour law. Next, in art. 51 of the Constitution is said that all Bulgarian citizens have the right to social security and social support. Public security is regulated by the Social Security Code. And now what remains is to settle all other policies, including social assistance policies. If we make this difference, this means that we can find out why the matter related to the support is a basic category, social support is a category that supports all Bulgarian citizens, who alone or with the help of their loved ones, cannot satisfy the basic life needs. This is the philosophy of the support. However, in addition to support, there are other policy-building policies such as promotional measures, support measures, social inclusion measures. These are building measures, some of which relate to our membership in the European Union. Because overcoming social exclusion, overcoming opportunities for social isolation means a newer type of policy other than social assistance policy. Colleagues, what do you suggest in art. 1 or c. 1 of the Project Decision? You propose that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy should conduct an analysis of social assistance within four months. Notice the social assistance is just an element of what we are talking about. Mr. Chairman, I'm making a procedural proposal. 1 after the word "helping" to drop the remaining words and to propose a concept of its mapping. It turns out that in t. 1 We want to codify only the support, and in that. 2 We want to codify the rest of the legislation related to the support of Bulgarian citizens. So this editorial proposal does not change in any way the philosophy of what IMRO colleagues want to propose. I am sure that a large part of this House and not only in this House, and outside, do not know that for social security, support and care in the budget for this year 14 billion have been allocated. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the I am sure that there are very few people in this and outside this hall who do not know that out of 47 billion, 31.7% of the public spending in Bulgaria is for social policy. However, I am sure that both in this Chamber and outside this Chamber many people are dissatisfied, including these financial parameters. Why is that? Because over the years, the development phase of socio-economic relations has suggested some or other legislative solutions. The legislator, based on public expectations, based on socio-economic development, has reacted in one way or another on the basis of public relations. Now that we are talking about a European pillar of social rights, now that we are talking about more upbuilding policies relating to social inclusion relating to integration relating to the possibility of overcoming social exclusion, we need to be aware that, in order for these costs to be transparent in order to motivate all these policies, to be integrated, in other words, in other words, to try to codify, to unite this matter. Not to unite it mechanically to collect all the laws, but on the basis of modern expectations, based on the expectations of transparency in these numbers, which I just told you to have efficiency of public spending, because these budget expenditures placed at the exit and at the entrance of the social system do not give the necessary efficiency. In order to overcome these disproportions, we have to codify this matter. And from this point of view, I am one of the people who have long supported this idea, because in this idea there are sufficiently serious, solid arguments for the social sphere to be arranged in such a way as to provide both support and supporting policies, and labour to be clearly described in legal documents that can be predictable, which will not cause one or other expectations depending on a particular conjuncture, but will be arranged on the basis of agglomerated matter. Honourable Members, I conclude with this because the time is limited that this six-month period, which is foreseen in point. Two is recommended. I would be very happy if this idea was realized within this period, but I am a little skeptical because serious political discussions are needed, serious public discussions, so that people can be convinced that this new policy, arranged, structured in another way, will allow for better functionality, will allow for greater efficiency. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u63	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Mrs. Dobreva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u64	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! In my opinion, the idea of creating a Code of Social Support is good. It will bring together all laws relating to social assistance and social services. The structure of the legal act should also lay down certain criteria such as the subject matter, objectives and principles, the scope and effect of cumulation, management and cooperation bodies, as well as financial support measures which will include monthly financial support, targeted financial support, seasonal financial support and one-off financial support. The measures should be based on an assessment of the socio-economic status of families and an assessment of the personal status of family members. The assessment of the socio-economic status of families will include family incomes, their property status, family status, health status, employment, compulsory inclusion and regular visits to pre-school and school age children in the system of pre-school and school education, fulfillment of the obligations of the immunization calendar and health prevention according to the age and health of children in the family. The assessment of the personal status of family members should include the existence of permanent physical, mental, intellectual or sensory failure, and whether there is a birth and raising of a child in a family environment. Access to measures and the amount of financial support will be based on a basic protected income set for the purpose in the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for the relevant year, support in kind, social services and personal assistance, and social protection should include a set of measures to support needy persons to improve the quality of life and full social inclusion in the community by providing social services and personal assistance. The terms and conditions for the financing, control, monitoring and administrative criminal liability should be laid down. Social protection will be provided for all Bulgarian citizens living in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, providing for special protection, which will be granted to the mother woman, families raising children, children left without care from their parents, elderly people who have no relatives and family members, and cannot be supported by the income and property they own, as well as those with permanent disabilities. The aim is to bring together all types of aid provided so far and the possibility of contacting social services, which is in line with the need to implement the individual approach. In this way, the approach applied will be improved to ensure very diverse in composition, but small in size social packages, according to the specifics of each particular case, without risk of identification of dependence and social exclusion, and this will happen under clear conditions and requirements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Dobreva. - What's the line? I can't see. Mrs. Klisurska, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u66	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear importers of the proposal, you throw dust in the eyes of people with your inaction! Why am I saying this? Because I can see the transcript when we saw the suspension of the Social Services Act. The delay that IMRO colleagues supported for six months and said: "The Social Services Act is good. We will distract the fears of the people. " - Well, you didn't distract them! You didn't submit any proposals, you declared this! Now what are you doing with this proposal? With this proposal you beat the ball because you did nothing and help the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy with their inaction to solve the problem. And why am I saying that? Because actually, four months from now, we're gonna be looking at the budget. This budget for people with disabilities, for people with social assistance, for all those in the field of social assistance will be the same. You do not have enough capacity to deal with the problems and tensions that arose around the Social Services Act! Unfortunately for me, from the beginning of January, when we postponed the Social Services Act, we all declared, but especially the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, that it would make a working group that would hire constitutionalists, family law specialists. Now, six months later, we don't have any suggestions. And you're offering me codification for six months?! This is funny, there is no way for codification, because that public debate, so necessary to the Bulgarian society, was held with regard to the laws on people with disabilities and the three new laws. Because, did we forget that a year ago, when we were looking at all the new legislation, there was a preliminary impact assessment. Seven years we couldn't handle a Social Services Act! Seven years show the powerlessness, inactivity of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and of you ruling! Because you are lawmakers who have the majority to decide what laws should happen. My biggest sadness at the moment is that the people who are from the most socially vulnerable groups will be damaged again, because this legislation that is needed does not have the capacity to be resolved. [[Noise and lines from OP.]] We are opposition and our proposals are not heard in this House. That's the problem. With this proposal, gentlemen, you show your frustration, your inactivity, your lack of capacity. I ask the question in the presence of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy: where are your proposals regarding the Social Services Act that you declared there? Where are people's fears distracted? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Because I know that if we have the will, we can make much better legislation, but obviously you don't! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. A statement? [[Reply from the National Representative Iskren Veselinov.]] Here you go. You have a minute, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u68	To the BSP, apparently, the louder a lie is told, the more they believe it is true. [[Applause from OP.]] There is no more lying and hypocritical party than you! You are leading people, you say: "We are with you, we are against the Social Services Act! " However, the Commission is voting against the procrastination of the Law. Yes, we are the people who requested a postponement and we are the people who have tabled proposals for a change in the Social Services Act. Check with the National Assembly and apologize from this tribune! [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Just two more words. In BSP everything is, just like that, to criticize angro: yes, it is a good idea, but we will not vote for it, because, just like that, we are against everything. Colleagues, be a little constructive if you want to do at least something, because we are following our management plan and I think this is one of the essential steps in this direction. A step that will overcome social parasitism will overcome the shortcomings of the Social Services Act, which justly excite people, will give the necessary social protection that you always promise and never give! [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u69	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mr. Vesselinoff, could you pay attention to me? I think in this case you have seriously violated the good tone. [[Loud noise and lines.]] It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u70	Mr. President, you should not have allowed a constructive debate in this House to become an accusation against one parliamentary group or another. This is at least because I would like to stress that even in this draft decision there is a harsh violation of the Constitution. Therefore, on my behalf, since I have not had the time to speak, I am making the following proposal at least at point two to correct this proposal of the government and to do so: not the Ministry of Labour...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u71	Excuse me, Mr. Nedyalkov, but you have no grounds, you have no right in a procedural matter such as this to make a proposal for a change in the Decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u72	Well, I'm very strict with the rules, Mr. Chairman. I would like to be given the right to an editorial proposal before the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u73	If you have time to speak. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Mr. Ermenkov, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u74	Dear Mr. President, I am taking a procedure in the manner of conduct because you have allowed this tribune to be offended at our expense, 83,000 members of our party plus about one million people who have supported it, with statements that at least sound rude, not to say that they do not go to those who enter the government with some promises and are currently doing exactly the opposite. Because when this happens from this tribune, you should have made the remark that no one has the right to give assessments to the parties from the tribune in his own personal opinion. The evaluation is given by the people in the elections. Perhaps, given that some of these parties, who are here, will receive their dignified assessment and will no longer have a place on this stand, take advantage of it to bring insults and attacks. But you are there to stop them, you are there to bring order to remind them that parliamentary culture requires respect for each other and it is unacceptable from here to make offensive qualifications! I'm ashamed of these colleagues! I hope they're ashamed, too, but under the masks, you probably can't see that.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u75	I paid attention to Mr. Veselinov. Are there any other speeches, colleagues? Colleagues, I don't see any speeches. This gives me reason to close the debate. I'm closing the debate. Dear Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u76	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm going to structure my speech as follows. First, let's talk about problems and people. Currently, the laws governing social policy and the topics we are talking about today are the Law on Disabilities, the Law on Social Assistance, the Law on Family Aid for Children, the Law on Child Protection, the Law on Personal Aid and the Law on Social Services. The legislation is indeed fragmented, in many cases extremely complicated to explain, very difficult to apply, causing different problems between different groups and categories of people, especially when it comes to people with disabilities. I do not think that if someone is really concerned about their problems, it is under the impression that the way in which the issues have been dealt with so far actually helps them to feel fairly supported, regardless of the resources that have already been cited by the previous ones in terms of the investments made by the Bulgarian society in social policy. We were attacked, including me personally, here, from the stands, for there's inaction, that someone is trying to throw dust into people's eyes and a bunch of other things. I would like to point out that from the beginning of the crisis, from the beginning of the emergency situation until now, if you have not been impressed, but it is the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy that is the ministry that operates most on the ground, which has provided significant social support and support to vulnerable people, people who are provided with daily food, home social patronage, social services, people who are in need. No payment was delayed and no amount had to be paid to people with disabilities. Regarding the Social Services Act, we continue to talk about it with exceptional demagogy and continue to talk about imaginary fears and threats contained in this law. Unfortunately, what is really happening right now is that there is still tension in society, but let's just say that there are no two groups. I don't know what these two groups are talking about?! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] There are no two groups! There are people who protest, who represent parental interests. These people are heard, their proposals will be taken into account in a future code of social support in the part of the Child Protection Act, but, unfortunately, outside protest people who have no interests related to social policy. There are people who abuse social policy for political purposes, there are religious organizations with foreign funding, for whose interests the Social Services Act poses a threat, there are honest charlatans who abuse the donation accounts of the people for whom they collect money. Who supported the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy in his fair battle to make sure that the grain of the chaff was actually cut off? Which politician did this? On the contrary, there were many more politicians who were tempted to use this tension for political purposes. Because social policy is no doubt an extremely difficult topic. It does favour demagogy, but one who would like to solve problems in social policy certainly does not usually have much support for it. So if there is someone who does not want to cover up the problems, if there is someone who wants to solve them, it is precisely the current political governance and the current majority. That is why we are proposing precisely this possible solution to codifying matter without, however, creating a legal vacuum without stopping any of the laws that I have cited so far, and without creating a shock for people, but being able to make it so that, on the one hand, we have more effective support, on the other hand, to have better administration, better functioning of the future Agency for possible social support, so that we can actually have better information provision for all processes, to reduce the opportunities for abuse and opportunities for this to waste public resources. In this sense, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, in case it is entrusted to make such an analysis and prepare texts, yes, indeed the deadlines are extremely ambitious, but believe me, the scale of the problems is such that it is worth the effort to work in a short time and work in such a way that, by the end of this year, we can actually offer texts with which to regulate all these topics that I am talking about so far: on the one hand, social assistance, which requires reforms, very recently this topic of social assistance reform has received support from social partners as well. Of course, the subject of people with disabilities is extremely important because people with disabilities also have different types of groups and different types of problems. There are those who consider the Social Services Act as the solution to their problem, there are others who believe that only the Personal Aid Act is the solution to their problem. It is obvious that we need both solutions and a combination of both solutions so that we can meet people's needs in a fair way, in a way that they really get what they need, but without creating the feeling that there are other categories and groups for which no effort is made. Of course, when we talk about the Child Protection Act, we are debtors there with great discussion about family policies and the only reason this discussion does not happen is, of course, only the crisis. But I would suggest that this discussion should start in the next half of the year with separate meetings, with individual representatives, we do not always need to gather in large groups of hundreds of people who say different things and argue. Perhaps small forms and small discussions would give us a better result. But the issue of children and family politics must really be a topic on which to have a non-party consensus so that it can no longer be subject to false political goals and so that it cannot become an object of street demagogy. So what I could conclude with is that in the event that the National Assembly decides to assign these tasks to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, I will do what is necessary to be able to fulfil them in time. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u77	Thank you, dear Minister. I will introduce you once again to the draft decision and then we will proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u78	It's already been introduced.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u79	I know he's been introduced! There was a proposal from the MP Hasan Ademov for dropping the text from the item. 1 of the Project Decision. I will put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Hasan Ademov. Vote 156 MPs: 111 against 1, abstention 44. The motion is accepted. I put the draft decision to the vote with Mr. Ademov's proposal. Vote 155 MPs: 113 against 3, abstention 39. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u80	Negative vote!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u81	He's holding back!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u82	Mr. Nedyalkov, you didn't have a statement, that's correct. You have a line, just to check again. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! I voted against the draft decision because it does have something or very serious, or importers have not complied with the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 The draft decision, which is now a decision of the National Assembly, states that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy presents to the National Assembly a draft code which is a legal act for overall state policy. I first think that in the field of social policy it should be a comprehensive state policy should not only be involved in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, nor should it only develop this so-called code that you have commissioned to draw up. This should also be under the Constitution. The Council of Ministers should be the importer of the acts, of the draft codes and laws in the National Assembly. With this decision the role of both the Council of Ministers and the intention of the National Assembly to really reflect the overall state policy in the social sphere was minimized. And one more thing. In my opinion, it is very difficult to unite things that are simply incompatible on a subject in such a code. For example, I say that the Social Services Act cannot be united in an act with the Child Protection Act. These are different spheres of correlation in our public life. One is a child's right, the other is a social sphere. Thank you for your attention. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u84	Thank you. Colleagues, we continue with: THE SECOND VOICE OF LAWPROECT TO COMPLIANCE THE LAW FOR THE BULGARIAN BLACK CROSS. Importers are Alexander Nenkov and Iskren Veselinov on 9 March 2020. Adopted in the first vote on 11 June 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u85	Dear Mr. Chairman! Report on a draft law supplementing the Law on the Bulgarian Red Cross, No 054-01-20, submitted by Alexander Rumenov Nenkov and Iskren Vasilev Veselinov on 9 March 2020, adopted at the first vote on 11 June 2020. The Law on the Bulgarian Red Cross is hereby amended as follows: "The Law on the Law on the Bulgarian Red Cross." The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u86	Statements? I can't see. Please, voting mode. Vote 112 MPs: 110, no objection, abstention 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u87	The Commission shall support the importer's text for a single paragraph which shall become § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u88	Paragraph 1 statements? Do you have any speeches, colleagues? I won't. Voting mode. They voted 102 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u89	Proposal of the MPs Valeri Simeonov, Boris Yachev and Christian Mitev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish a section of the Final provision with § 2: "Concluding provision' § 2. In the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, and for overcoming the consequences (promise, SG No. ...) in art. 26 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. The first sentence is replaced by the following: the first sentence is replaced by the following: the second sentence is replaced by the second sentence is replaced by the second sentence is replaced by the second sentence is replaced by the second sentence is replaced by the second sentence is replaced by the second sentence is replaced by the second sentence is replaced by the second sentence is replaced by the second sentence is replaced by the second sentence is 2. Alinea 2 is canceled.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u90	You have the floor to speak. Mr. Zarkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u91	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are looking at the Law on the Bulgarian Red Cross, adopted unanimously, and which aims to support the activities of the Bulgarian Red Cross and the establishment of a center for training staff who can train people outside the country. A well-prepared law, presented law, debated law, voted unanimously. And suddenly in the Law on the Bulgarian Red Cross changes in the Law on the Emergency Situation. According to our rules, Mr. President, I appeal to you, as you are also the importer of the relevant proposal, proposals between first and second reading are admissible by the Members of the National Assembly, which come within the scope of the law adopted at first reading. This fast track, which has been used continuously in this Parliament so far, has proved only one thing: such changes lead to wrong decisions, even when they are created with good will. The lack of time for their discussion, the lack of time for their consideration, makes it so that they ultimately do not cause an effect. And this is a good case. The bad case is when they're deliberately designed to benefit one or another sphere. In this case, it is essentially about that assistance to the tour operators, which we voted a long time ago.. 35 euros per seat for the relevant flights. Then we decided that this would only apply to tour operators who use Bulgarian licensed carriers. The condition of being able to finance foreign when there is no interest in Bulgarian, and this aid is being extended is now dropped. Essentially whether he's okay or not, we don't have a chance to discuss it. In essence, however, this will involve additional expenditure from the state budget, neither is it clear how much, nor with what effect, nor where they will go. It was introduced between the first and second readings by one of the parliamentary groups forming the management to address, as expressed yesterday, Madam President of the Legal Commission, the representative of the Ministry of Transport...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u92	...of tourism.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u93	...of tourism: pass quickly. To pass quickly means most often that money will flow from the state budget without much effect. Nothing prevented the same initiative from being tabled in a separate bill. The work of the National Assembly is poor at the moment from drafts, which is another problem, but at the moment we have the opportunity to look at relatively normal deadlines, only that we would hear and what the tour operators themselves think, we would hear what Bulgarian licensed carriers think, we would hear what the industry thinks, we would hear other interested parties. I will not get tired and we at BSP will not tire of repeating that the rule of law means that everyone should follow the rules, including the rules under which rules are made! And since it has become a difficult debate on the masks, whether or not we are following the rules, and many people have resented that the MPs do not comply with the rules issued by order of the Minister of Health and are properly indignant, I share this outrage: if so decided, this applies to us, but what about the masks, since we do not comply with the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, and it is flagrant, all the time, and with the Law of Youth and Sports, we change laws about whatnot? How would you react if I had introduced here, for example, an amendment to the Health Act in which hospitals are not commercial companies? [[GERB line: "Come on, at last! "]] This is absolutely unacceptable and the normal correct order of action would be: even in the Legal Committee, the President would say that this amendment is inadmissible because it comes out of the subjective scope of the Law, to pay attention to the Members of the National Assembly, who are importers, that they are entitled to a normal legislative initiative, to put a stop once and for all on one of the most direct paths towards lobbying and corruption, as is the change of laws in this way. That is why we have refused, refused, and now in this House, to enter into this discussion essentially, as well as to vote on this text, because, by voting against it, we are by no means legitimising an alleged democratic process. And this process is essentially anti-legal and anti-democratic. We've been talking about this for three and a half years. It's obvious you've decided to go this way after all. The pity is that the price paid the Bulgarian citizens. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u94	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? I don't see anyone who wants to. Do you have any other comments? I won't. I'm calling off the debate. Please, voting mode. Vote 75 MPs: for 74, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR AUTOMOBILITY TRANSFERS, No 002-01-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 January 2020. I give the floor to the President of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u95	Thank you. If you'll allow me, it's a security clearance procedure. On the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure please allow Mr. Angel Popov Deputy Minister of Transport, and Mr. Boyko Ranovski Director of the Executive Agency.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u96	Please, voting mode. [[Heckling]] A counteroffer? Here you go. [[(The National Representative Dimitar Danchev comes out on the stand. A line from GERB: We are in a voting procedure.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u97	The reverse proposal is before the procedure is announced.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u98	We're in procedure now!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u99	Dear Mr. Chairman! [[GERB lines.]] I'm doing reverse procedure! [[Reply from GERB "We are already in procedure. "]] Before announcing the procedure, we said! You hadn't seen Mr. Chairman that there was a request for a reverse procedure. [[GERB lines: "There is a vote. "]] If you want to speak, Mrs. Daritkova, come and make me a note from the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u100	I want to follow the rules! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria and GERB. The Chairman of the meeting Valeri Simeonov and Vice-President Emil Hristov consulted.]] Stop the procedure, Mr. Chairman, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u101	I can't stop her. A voting procedure has been announced. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u102	We raised our hand very early!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u103	I didn't see you!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u104	Well, stop the procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u105	I didn't notice you. [[Replications between the Chairman Valeri Simeonov, Vice-President Emil Hristov and the National Representative Dimitar Danchev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u106	All right, let's call off the voting procedure. You can do it. [[Noise and lines.]] Why can't he? [[(Reply of Vice-President Emil Hristov:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u107	You can't...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u108	Please continue the vote! [[Replications of Vice-President Emil Hristov.]] Cancel the vote! [[GERB lines.]] Unfortunately, we're in a voting procedure. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] If you please, fellow Members, please come in for a vote. [[(Reply from BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u109	They voted 93 MPs: 82, against 7, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. [[(Replicates from the BSP for Bulgaria: "Procedure"! Revoting!]] Here you go, Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u110	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am using the re-voting procedure to call on colleagues not to support the proposal for admission in Mr. Angel Popov's room. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u111	No, that's unacceptable, Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u112	Since during a Commission meeting...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u113	Please get it over with.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u114	...when he was supposed to be in the gym... [[The President shall exclude the speaker's microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u115	Mr. Danchev, you have no right to do this. [[(Reply from DPS: Bravo to the President! There's got to be some order, there's no need...]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u116	It's a re-vote. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u117	No, she's been canceled. [[Heckling]] Please, voting mode. Colleagues, we're voting! Vote 108 MPs: 80, against 23, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Please continue, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u118	Thank you. The Act for amendment and supplement of the Law on Road Transport (prom., SG No. (see Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u119	Thank you. Go on!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u120	Speech!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u121	A statement? Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u122	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I am taking not a procedure but a statement on the title of the Bill to remind you of a statement when we saw the Law at first reading. This bill was 20 pages, submitted by the Council of Ministers, with the corresponding motives and the corresponding wishes for changes in legislation. Then here, from this tribune, I told you that when the time came for a second vote, what we were looking at back then, would have nothing to do with what we're looking at today. The fact is already in place. The bill is now 83 pages, on each proposal from the Council of Ministers there is at least one proposal from MPs and at least one more proposal under art. 83 of the Rules of Procedure made in the Commission after the time limits for the second vote. I say this in order to pay once again attention to the quality of the legislative process, to the approach used to pass texts, to abolish texts and the absence in this entire process of the Council of Ministers. Today the Minister is gone again. Here is the Deputy Minister of Transport, who on three six-hour committees did not wish to come when the texts were discussed...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u123	I think you're out of the sphere at point one.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u124	Right under the law, I'm talking, by the title of the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u125	Under the law, but that's not by the title.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u126	When he had to give the government's position under the Law what he thought, what government policy was, he was gone, and today he came to look at us and listen to us. I hope he gets a hold of this tribune. Dear Mr. Chairman, we do have questions for the Deputy Minister of Transport and please give him the floor, because it is not a room for viewing, but a room for discussion to take up and say government policy, as all texts are of MPs and not of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u127	I'll consider it as possible. Thank you. Are there any other speeches? Because I don't see any lines from Mr. Svilensky. I will put to the vote the name of the Law supported by the Commission. They voted 105 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u128	Under § 1, there is a proposal from Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications shall direct, coordinate and control state policy in the implementation of road transport of passengers and freight. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u129	Thank you. Statements? Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u130	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! We accept a text that sets a precedent for the Council of Ministers. I'll ask if there's anyone in this room who can tell me in which other ministry the minister's powers are being removed? This is what the Council of Ministers' proposal is for the Minister of Transport to no longer be able to coordinate and control policies and activities in the government. It is only given the opportunity to conduct state policy, whatever that means, and responsibility for control and coordination of the activity is given to the Executive Director of the Automobile Administration. I clearly understand why this text was proposed. He was proposed only a few days after the arrest of Minister Neno Dimov, when because of a failure in the policy of the government on the environment a minister was arrested and after a few months a Deputy Minister was arrested. However, honourable Members, Mr. Ranovski, Executive Director of the Automobile Administration, there is absolutely no reason to assume the responsibility of both a minister and a deputy minister for failure or non-fail in a particular sphere. There is no other ministry in which to take away its powers of control and coordination of activities. This is the first ministry. Perhaps this will continue in other laws, if this is the policy of the government, but under Constitution, I say again, on the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria responsible, which should coordinate and guide and control the activity in a given policy, is the Minister of Transport. It is absolutely unacceptable for us to remove the responsibilities that he has been given by the Constitution and by the laws of the country to be assigned to the executive directors of agencies because of the political and any other responsibility... When you appear in elections, not the executive director, in this case Mr. Ranovski, but a political party GERB, the Patriots. [[GERB's line: "Without BSP! "]] and broadcast a minister who needs to coordinate and control what's happening in the ministry. Otherwise, I ask again: some administrative reform specialist or some other constitutional one, to come out and say in which other ministry the minister will not be responsible, but will only conduct state policy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u131	Thank you. A line?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u132	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Svilensky, I just want to say that in the Ministry of Transport this is not a precedent. In the Ministry of Transport you know that under the Railway Transport Act there is created an Agency that controls the conduct of the policies and activities of the Ministry and the policy is imposed by the Minister. This thing we're going to do in marine spaces, this thing we're going to do in aviation, so that when a policy takes place, then someone else can control the conduct of this policy, which is to be responsible. Because otherwise, the responsibility is blurry. I hope you understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u133	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Another line? I can't see. Without counting as a speech, for myself, I want to clarify as a figure. For me, it may not be good on the microphone, but the conduct of a state policy. It includes exactly what we are talking about, management, coordination and control. It's important to me as a concept, because that's the broad understanding of what you're putting under...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and I'll answer you, too, and I'll take that as a line. Mr. Ivanov, the question I asked is which ministry besides the Ministry of Transport and you have proved that there is none. But I was surprised when I found out that you were allocating responsibilities when the Minister would conduct a policy and the Executive Director of the Automobile Administration would control it. [[Reply from GERB: "And the Ministry of Health. "]] Notice, the Minister will conduct the policy, in your words, will be responsible and control over his activities will be carried out by the Executive Director! Absolute Nonsense, that's not gonna happen! Mr. Christov, on your line. There is no way you can capture a concept purely in the sense that I am reading, it conducts a state policy and by limiting ourselves. In the Constitution, Mr. Hristov, it is written what ministers do, it is written there. If there was to be a.. I regret that there is no Mr. Markov as a person who has adopted the Constitution, to come out and give answers to these questions, if there our predecessors have considered that this is enough... to conduct state policy.... to be so written in the laws, I will withdraw the proposal, but in the Constitution it is written what the ministers and the Council of Ministers are doing. And we are not the ones who are going to break the Constitution, we are going to write laws that will relieve the ministers, the deputy ministers and policy holders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u135	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Are there any other speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I will put to the vote the unacceptable proposal of the MP Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs. They voted 105 MPs: 29, against 65, abstentioned 11. The offer is not accepted. I am now putting the text of the importer to the vote for § 1. Vote 100 MPs: 73, against 25, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u136	According to § 2 there is a proposal from Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The public transport of passengers and cargo is carried out by a carrier holding a licence to carry passengers or goods in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, a licence to carry out international carriage of passengers or goods. Community licence, a certificate of registration for the operation of.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Executive Agency shall keep a register of Community licences and licences for the carriage of passengers or goods in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. The register shall contain a license number, name and legal form of the carrier, ID, carrier's management address, names of the professional competent person, number of copies or certificates to the licence concerned, issued penal decrees, list of vehicles with which the carrier carries out the activity. 2. In para. 2 the words "the database of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications" shall be replaced by the register of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. 1.................................................................................. 3. In para. 3: (a) point 5 is amended as follows: It's five o'clock. transport of postal items carried out by postal operators holding individual universal postal service licences under art. 39 of the Postal Services Act; (b) point 6 is repealed; c) create t. 8? 10: It's 8 o'clock. transport of persons with disabilities, persons with reduced mobility, sick or injured persons, with special vehicles of category Ml and N1 under the regulation under art. 24c, para. 1; 9. transport of passengers or goods on their own account, except for the cases referred to in art. 12b, para. 10; 10. Transhipments for attraction purposes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u137	Continue, please, with § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u138	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 sentence third after the words "Bulgarian registration" a comma shall be placed and added for which there is a document for checking the vehicle's technicality, which allows for traffic on roads open to public use and the period of validity has not expired. 2. In para. 3 shall be finally commated and added as follows: 3. Paragraph 5 is amended as follows: The requirements for professional competence under para. 2, p. 2 are implemented where the managers of the transport activity of the traders: 1. hold a certificate of professional competence in accordance with the requirements laid down by the ordinance under para. 3, and have at least secondary education; 2. are appointed to an employment contract for the job concerned or participate in the management, or are owners, partners or shareholders. 4. The creation of para. 5a: (a) The Head of Transport shall, in fact and permanently, direct the transport activity of the undertaking in accordance with art. 4 of Regulation (EC) No 1071/2009. 5. In para. 6 the words "tax and social contributions payables', except where they are payable or deferred under the Tax-Securities Procedure Code' are replaced by "public liabilities'. 6. A new para is being created. 7. The requirement for the absence of public liabilities under para. 6 is fulfilled where no notification under Article 6 has been received for the trader. 182, para. 2, p. Art. 2 or art. 221, para. 6 of the Tax Insurance Procedure Code. 7. So far, the Al. 7 becomes para. 8 and amended as follows: The requirement for establishment under para. 2, p. 4 is fulfilled when the trader: 1. it is really and permanently established in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, for which it presents a declaration of establishment according to a model established by the order of the Executive Director of the Executive Agency. 2. has at least one motor vehicle with a Bulgarian registration. Owned or rented through a lease or lease contract; 3. have premises in which it stores accounting documents, documents relating to the appointment of staff, documents for the driving and rest periods of the vehicle, and other documents accompanying its basic commercial activity which are subject to control and are made available to the competent authority upon inspection; 4. has its own or hired service centre with technical equipment and facilities.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u139	Please continue with the next paragraph.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u140	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u141	Thank you. You have the floor for speeches, colleagues. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u142	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In § 3, the most important is the point with the mailboxes. There was a practice to register companies in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria until now, transports were carried out both in the West and in the territory, but when verification was established the control bodies at the address did not find the registered company or any of its representatives. This is intended for the issue of a licence, whether it will be for international or domestic, for cargo or bus, for the control body to carry out an on-the-spot check, to see in the room where the address is, whether the carrier is there, whether he keeps the necessary documents relating to the transport, whether the professional competent person is also there and whether he meets the requirements. So our parliamentary group will support this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u143	Thank you, Mr. Polychronov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the texts of paragraphs 2 and 3, as well as the text of the importer for § 4. They voted 113 MPs: for 113, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u144	Under § 5, there is a proposal from Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 5. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, i.e. 1 the word "only" is deleted everywhere.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u145	Are there any speeches? I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 5 with the amendments proposed by the Commission. They voted 111 MPs: 110 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u146	Under § 6 there is a proposal from Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs: In Paragraph 6, paragraph 6 is replaced by the following: 2 in the created para. 3 the figure The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 8 the following amendments and additions are 1. In para. The second sentence is created: For the issue of a licence and/or certified copies and/or certificates of public transport of a motor vehicle, the person referred to in art. 7, para. 2 submit to the Executive Agency an application in accordance with a model with the documents annexed to it, determined by the ordinance under art. 7, para. 3. 2. A new para is being created. 3: In the case of irregularities and/or incompleteness of the documents submitted under para. 2 The Executive Director of the Executive Agency of Automobile Administration shall inform the person in writing within 5 days of a quick order and within 14 days of a simple order and shall give 10 days for their removal. In the event of non-compliance and/or failure to provide the necessary information within the time limit, administrative proceedings shall be terminated. 3. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 4 and is amended as follows: The period of authorisation for the carriage of passengers or goods in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and of a Community licence shall be extended for another 10 years if the licensed carrier submits a written application not later than 15 days before the expiry of the period of validity of the licence and complies with the requirements laid down by the ordinance under art. 7, para. 3. 4. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 5 and is amended as follows: The authorisation or extension of the licence shall be granted within 15 days of the submission of the application or the removal of the incompletes within the time limits laid down in para. 3 in case of a simple order and within 7 days in case of a quick order.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u147	Let's stop here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u148	I withdraw my offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u149	Mr. Svilensky, are you withdrawing your offer? Okay, thank you. I'm not putting it to the vote. In this situation, are there any other speeches? I won't. Mr. Svilensky, what about the next offer? We just need to know if we can represent him.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u150	I can read the proposal in a few minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u151	Yeah, okay. I get it. I'll give you the floor later. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 6 by importer. They voted 114 MPs: for 114, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u152	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7. Under § 8 there is a proposal from Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8: ................................................................................... Art. 12. (1) Taxi transport of passengers may be carried out by a trader holding a registration certificate. (2) The certificates of registration under para. 1 shall be issued by the mayors of the municipalities or by officials authorised by them to manage the trader where the trader: 1. meet the requirements for reliability; 2. has at least one own, rental or leasing vehicle which meets the requirements of para. 7); 3. no public obligations. (3) The requirements for reliability under para. 2, p. 1 are fulfilled where the persons representing the trader, the members of his managing and supervisory bodies are not convicted of a deliberate crime of a general nature or are not deprived of a sentence of the right to carry out a transport activity, and where they have not participated in the management of a trader on which the rights have been terminated in accordance with para. 13, p. 1 letter (s) in the last two years. (4) The Executive Agency shall keep a public single taxi register in which the certificates under para. 2. (5) The Executive Agency shall provide access to the mayors of municipalities and the officials authorised by them for entry, write-off and changes in the data of the certificates issued in the register under para. 4. The order for granting access and entry of the data in the register shall be determined by the ordinance under art. 12a, para. 5. (6) For the issue of a certificate of registration and registration in the register, the persons referred to in para. 1 submit an application to the mayor of the municipality, to which they shall apply the documents specified in the ordinance under art. 12a, para. 5 and a list of vehicles with which they will operate. (7) Taxis for the carriage of taxis shall comply with the following requirements: 1. be passenger cars up to seven seats, including the driver's seat; 2. be equipped with an electronic taxi system with an assessment under the Law on Technical Requirements for Products Compliance; 3. meet the requirements laid down in the ordinance under art. 12a, para. 5 and have for each of them a certificate of technical condition issued with an additional examination for the taxi transport of passengers; 4. Since the date of the first registration of the car has not expired more than 15 years. (8) In the case of incompleteness of the documents submitted under para. 6 The mayor of the municipality or the official authorised by him within 10 days of the submission of the application shall notify the trader in writing and give a period of 10 days for their removal. (9) Within 14 days of submission of the application or removal of the incompletes within the period under para. 8, the mayor of the municipality or the official authorised by him shall carry out the registration and issue a certificate of registration to the trader for the carriage of passengers by taxi. (10) Registration under para. Nine is timeless. (11) The mayor of the municipality or the official authorised by him shall give reasons for refusing registration and issuing a certificate of registration where the trader does not meet any of the requirements for its issue or has not applied the necessary documents to the application. (12) Refusal to carry out registration shall be subject to appeal under the Administrative Procedure Code. (13) The right to carry out taxi transport of passengers shall cease: 1. by decision of the authority which has made the registration where: (a) the registration was carried out on the basis of false documents or false documents; (b) The trader shall cease to comply with the requirements of para. 2, p. 1 or 2; (c) in carrying out the activity of the trader, that law and regulations issued on the basis of it have been systematically violated; (d) false documents or false documents have been used in carrying out the activity; (e) the trader has been notified under art. 182, para. 2, p. Art. 2 or art. 221, para. 6 of the Tax Insurance Procedure Code. 2. upon application by the holder of the registration certificate; 3. with the cessation of the activity of the holder of the registration certificate. (14) Municipal councils shall determine the fees for carrying out the registration under para. 1 for the issue of a registration certificate and for the entry of changes in the registration. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u153	And let's stop here, Mr. Letifov. We'll stop with the presentation, we'll continue after work is interrupted for 30 minutes. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u154	Here we go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u155	The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for § 8: ................................................................................... Article 12 is amended as follows: Art. 12. (1) Taxi transport of passengers may be carried out by a trader holding a registration certificate. Taxi transport may also be carried out by a driver on behalf of a registered trader included in the registration certificate. In order to carry out the activity on behalf of the registered trader, the driver must meet the requirements of art. 24, para. 3. The legal relationship between the registered trader and the driver who will carry out the activity on his behalf but on his own account shall be governed by a written contract. (2) The certificates of registration under para. 1 shall be issued by the mayors of the municipalities or by officials authorised by them to manage the trader where the trader: 1. meet the requirements for reliability; 2. has at least one own, rental or leasing vehicle which meets the requirements of para. 7); 3. no public obligations. (3) The requirements for reliability under para. 2, p. 1 are fulfilled where the persons representing the trader, the members of his managing and supervisory bodies are not convicted of a deliberate crime of a general nature or are not deprived of a sentence of the right to carry out a transport activity, and where they have not participated in the management of a trader whose rights have been terminated in accordance with para. 13, p. 1 letter (s) in the last two years. (4) The Executive Agency shall keep a public single taxi register in which the certificates under para. 2. (5) The Executive Agency shall provide access to the register under para. 4 of the mayors of municipalities and officials authorised by them to enter, write down and change the data of the certificates issued. The order for granting access and entry of the data in the register shall be determined by the ordinance under art. 12a, para. 5. (6) For the issue of a certificate of registration and registration in the register, the trader under para. 1 submit an application to the mayor of the municipality, to which he applies the documents determined by the ordinance under art. 12a, para. 5, a list of drivers who will carry out the activity on his behalf and a list of vehicles with which he will carry out the activity. The trader shall submit an application within 14 days of changing the data entered in the register. (7) Taxis for the carriage of taxis shall comply with the following requirements: 1. be passenger cars up to seven seats, including the driver's seat; 2. be equipped with an electronic taxi system with an assessment under the Law on Technical Requirements for Products Compliance; 3. meet the requirements laid down by the ordinance under art. 12a, para. 5 and have for each of them a certificate of technical condition issued with an additional examination for the taxi transport of passengers; 4. Since the date of the first registration of the car has not expired more than 15 years. (8) In the case of incompleteness of the documents submitted under para. 6 The mayor of the municipality or an official authorised by him within 10 days of the submission of the application shall notify the trader in writing and give 14 days for their removal. (9) Within 14 days of submission of the application or removal of the incompletes within the period under para. 8 The mayor of the municipality or an official authorised by him shall carry out the registration and issue a certificate of registration to the trader for the carriage of passengers by taxi. (10) Registration under para. Nine is timeless. (11) The mayor of the municipality or an official authorised by him shall refuse the registration and issue of a certificate of registration where the trader does not meet the requirements of para. 2 or has not applied the necessary documents to the application. (12) Refusal to carry out registration shall be subject to appeal under the Administrative Procedure Code. (13) The right to carry out taxi transport of passengers shall cease: 1. by decision of the authority which has made the registration where: (a) the registration was carried out on the basis of false documents or false documents; (b) The trader shall cease to comply with the requirements of para. 2, p. 1 or 2; (c) in carrying out its activities, the trader systematically infringes this law or the regulations governing its application; (d) the trader has used false documents or false documents in carrying out the activity; (e) the trader has been notified under art. 182, para. 2, p. Art. 2 or art. 221, para. 6 of the Tax Insurance Procedure Code. 2. upon application by the holder of the registration certificate; 3. with the cessation of the activity of the holder of the registration certificate. (14) By a decree of the municipal council shall be determined the fee for issuing the certificate of registration under para. 1 and for the entry of changes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u156	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Honourable Members, you have the floor for speeches. Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u157	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Members of Parliament, in this paragraph, long read by the President of the Commission, it is about a change in the operation of the taxi transport. This issue is discussed more than five or six years in society: who should carry out this activity, how should it be done, where should the permits be taken out, where should the drivers be registered? After all, most of the paragraph I think we agree that we have all the parliamentary groups, so the administration of taxi activity must be transferred to the municipalities. It is currently being carried out by the Ministry of Transport in the face of the Motor Administration and by the mayors of settlements by the municipalities. What is proposed in the text that I and my fellow MPs have proposed is that the administration of the taxi activity should be fully transferred to the municipalities. They're the subjects they need to control, to register. They know how many taxi cars they need. They are the ones who set the minimum price. With them remains the alternative tax, with which the parliament decided a few years ago that they should be taxed. The only difference we have with colleagues from GERB is who can carry out the activity. What we propose is that the activity is carried out by a registered trader and from then on everyone, as the entire economic life in the country works, you register as a trader, then you go to the municipality, register your cash register, register your taxi and start exercising the activity. Colleagues suggest that this activity may also be carried out by persons on behalf of a registered trader on their own account. The same question is raised again and I hope that someone will answer me: is there any other activity in the country, in the European Union, or in the world, or in Europe, where you can do business on behalf of a trader? Now I see Mrs. Stoyanova is in the hall. Since we had the debate at the time, when taxing taxi cars, perhaps here to say from a purely budgetary point of view whether this is correct and lawful...........................that you are not a registered trader, but to work for example under the Commercial Law? Colleagues shared when we talked about some compilation of slave structure and market economy is being introduced, as there is no such thing anywhere to work on behalf of a registered trader for any activity. Think about it, let's all think about it, and if there's such a thing, do me a line. To say which activity can be performed without being a registered trader, but on behalf of a trader at his own expense?! That's the difference between the two proposals. I urge you, of course, to support our proposal. If it does not find support, once again I call on the National Assembly to open the debate on the functioning and structuring of the taxi activity, as it is currently working, the taxi drivers themselves, the carriers themselves, the owners of companies themselves are unhappy, they want this conversation to be held and to be clear what rules they will work under from now on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u158	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I will put to the vote the text of the importer for § 7, and then I will put to the vote Mr. Svilensky's unsupported proposal. Vote 118 MPs: 81 against 35, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs. They voted 115 MPs: 48 against 31, abstention 36. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 8. They voted 115 MPs: 79, none, abstention 36. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u159	Under § 9 there is a proposal from the MP Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u160	Mr. Svilensky, are you withdrawing the offer?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u161	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u162	Thank you. Please note in the protocol.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u163	Proposal by the MP Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs according to art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12a The following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: In the register referred to in art. 12, para. 4 shall be entered: 1. the name of the municipality which made the registration; 2. an official who has made the registration; 3. order number and date of registration certificate; 4. EIC, company, registered office and business management address of the trader; 5. data on motor vehicles with which the trader carries out the transport: (a) registration number; (b) identification number; (c) make and model; (d) date of first registration; (e) owner of the vehicle; (f) own, leased or leased; (g) date of entry of the vehicle in the registration certificate; (h) authorisation number referred to in art. 24a, para. 1, municipality for which it is valid and date of validity. 6. the drivers who will carry out the activity on behalf of the registered trader, but at their own expense. 7. date of deletion of the registration and the reasons for that. 2. Allinei 2 and 4 are canceled. 3. In para. 5 words. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 October 2011 laying down detailed rules for implementing Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the list of approved active According to § 10, there is a proposal from the MP Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs. In the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12b the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1, in the text before t. 1 after the words "single traders" shall be comma, and the words "or legal persons" shall be replaced by a legal person or a natural person registered as a farmer under the order of the Agricultural Support Act. 2. In para. 10 is finally added or is a natural person registered as a farmer in accordance with the Agricultural Support Act. 3. In para. 11 A sentence second is created: The notice contains the data under para. 12. 4. They're creating an al. 12,13 and 14: The Executive Agency shall establish and maintain a database for persons carrying passengers or goods on their own account containing the following information: 1. the name, permanent address and single civil number of a natural person registered as a farmer; name, registered office and address of the sole trader or legal person; 2. for the type of transport to be carried out; 3. Registration number, mark and model of vehicles with which the transport is carried out. (13) The information under para. 12, t. 1 for the single civil number shall be provided in compliance with the requirements for the protection of personal data. (14) When changing the data under para. 12 persons per para. 1 shall notify the Executive Agency in writing by the date of the start of the operation of the carriage.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u164	Let's stop here, Mr. Letifov. Are there any speeches? I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for paragraphs 9 and 10. They voted 122 MPs: for 83, against none, abstention 39. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u165	Under Paragraph 11, there is a proposal from Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs: In § 11 t. 1 and 3 drop out, and t. 2 becomes the content of § 11. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 11 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u166	Thank you. Statements? Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u167	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I would like to defend the Commission's proposal for the removal of the importing text. Thus, the text proposed by the importer of § 11 raises more questions than solves real problems. The big problem with what has been made as a proposal by the importer is that a new type of transport scheme is being introduced before the Republican transport scheme is practically implemented. For years it has been said that there should be a comprehensive republican working transport scheme, but there is none, and yet the importer now proposes the creation of a new inter-region transport scheme. It is no coincidence that the Commission rejected this proposal because the really proposed change should be assessed according to its influence on passengers and their need for travel across the country, and not just between individual areas. It is not clear from the proposal by the importer whether the new inter-region transport schemes are part of this Republican transport scheme, which, by the way, is validated by the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, or whether it is simply intended for the Ministry to transfer its commitment and responsibilities to the regional managers. Do they have the capacity and financial resources in this sense for regional managers to award inter-area lines? Finally, at least I did not hear the representatives of the Ministry in the framework of the debate held in the Transport Commission to be able to answer the question, for example, who would be responsible if this text was adopted, the transports between Sofia-City and Sofia district? Given that Sofia-district has no administrative centre, which of the two district managers in this situation, for example, will have to assign the services that are carried out between the two districts? Therefore, please, fellow Members, let us, indeed,, as the Commission has proposed, reject the proposal of the importer under § 11. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u168	Thank you, Mr. Danchev. This basically means that you are also withdrawing your proposal, Mr Svilenski, is this how I understand it if you support the Commission's proposal to reject the overall text?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u169	Its proposal is generally supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u170	Exactly, but I wanted to hear it so he could get on the record. Any other speeches? Mr. Svilensky, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u171	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Members of Parliament, in practice my proposal is supported by the Commission and the Commission's proposal is not to support the importer's proposal. What's this about? An unfinished business for years at the Ministry of Transport, namely the development of a Republican transport scheme. Now colleagues from the Ministry of Transport have been trying to mask this inaction for more than ten years and offer some inter-regional transport schemes. The Law clearly lists them and you all know them.. Municipal transport schemes when it comes to the municipality; regional transport schemes when this is a matter within the area; and Republican transport scheme when it comes to transport between different districts. And I don't see the logic of introducing a new concept into this law, which is inter-regional. They're part of the Republican transport scheme. Whatever they explained to you, this would ease the new schedules, the new routes, does not correspond to the truth. That's not the problem. The problem is that in the Ministry of Transport should sit down, distinguish themselves from any economic and other interests and develop a Republican transport scheme with the clear awareness that they will harm the interest of any carrier, but will protect the interest of the Bulgarian citizens of all those to whom we are representatives here. It is high time for the country to have some order and this order to start to be laid, to have some basis, and this is precisely the cleansing of the Republican transport scheme, the creation of a new one, in line with the needs of Bulgarian citizens, in line with the load, in line with the interests of those for which we work. The representatives of the National Association of Municipalities supported this reasoning, which I have now made before you. They supported the fact that there should be no inter-regional transport scheme and that a new Republican transport scheme should be made on the basis of which to build all the others after that............................................... and so on................................. On the basis of making the new routes, the new schedules, announcing the new orders and who wins to work on the corresponding lines. My request to all of you as representatives of the Bulgarian citizens is to protect their interests, and their interests are to have a Republican transport scheme, because if there is no Republican transport scheme, in § 57 Therefore, honourable Members, my request is to support the Commission's proposal to reject the text of the importer, and especially the opinion of the National Association of Municipalities, where they are mayors of all political forces, there are neither only BSPs nor GERBs, but on all sides. They are unanimous, including Sofia Municipality was represented by Deputy Mayor of Finance Doncho Barbalov, who also took this position. So do not distinguish yourself from your mayors, protect the Bulgarian citizens, protect the Bulgarian municipalities and support the dropping of this paragraph. The Ministry of Transport to sit down and start running a Republican transport scheme, after which everything will come into place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u172	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Before I gave the floor for a line, you raised a question to me: first Republican, then municipal? Shouldn't it be the opposite in the context of decentralisation? And how will building a Republican influence the municipal? Replices, coworkers? I won't. Any other speeches?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u173	It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u174	No, it wasn't a line. I have no right to make a line. I was just sharing a thought. Colleagues, if there are no other speeches, we are going to vote. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal § 11 by importer to be rejected. Colleagues, to remind you that Mr. Svilensky's proposal was essentially withdrawn, so I did not put it to the vote. I voted on the Commission's proposal to reject the wording of § 11. Vote 119 MPs: 56 against 53, abstention 10. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u175	Dear colleagues, I would like a re-vote procedure and I would really like to appeal for the support of Bulgarian municipalities and Bulgarian citizens. Once again: support the proposal to drop § 11. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u176	Please, voting mode. Vote 112 MPs: 54, against 50, abstention 8. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 11. Vote 126 MPs: 82, against 42, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Paragraph 11 remains with the import text. Negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u177	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I voted against the proposal with a clear awareness that every Member of Parliament knows the real situation in the country. You must see what transport services are like.. that transport companies on the ground do not have the capacity to provide transport services, that mayors drive people, that people hire random transportation. I had a question to the Minister of Transport even with a proposal to allow for the opening of a fund for municipalities to be able to create utilities, including transport, so that people could travel. I don't know if you know this, but I'm going to give an example of Smolyan Municipality in the conditions of COVID from almost all villages brought down a transport network illegally, with a decision of the municipal council. That is, we create a precedent for people not to have the opportunity to take.. we make them dependent on this public transport, to which we must give regulation. And since the solution is not perfect, I understand your desire, your emotion, but look at the real lives of the people we represent. We have made a mistake at the moment. We did not do good for the support of Bulgarian citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u178	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Go on, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u179	Mr. Chairman, since we did not reject § 11, I will not read the renumbering of the other paragraphs - the numbers remain the same. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 19 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2 the words (EEC) No 1191/96 and (EEC) No 1107/70 of the Council (L 315/1 of 3 December 2007).) where the contracting entity provides funds provided for in public and/or municipal budgets to compensate carriers for expenditure incurred and/or grants them exclusive rights against the performance of a public service obligation. Depending on the available funds and the possibilities to transfer the operational risk to an economic operator and sentences are created second and third: "When bus services are awarded without transferring the operational risk to the economic operator, the award shall be carried out under the Public Procurement Act. Where the operational risk is transferred to the economic operator, the services shall be awarded under the terms and conditions of the Law on concessions in accordance with art. 4 of Regulation (EC) No is amended as follows: 2. Alinea 6 is amended as follows: The mayors of municipalities shall, within six months prior to the award of the transport services by route schedules of the established transport schemes, submit an application to the authority confirming the relevant route timetable to coordinate the initiation of a procedure for the award of the services. The procedure for the award of services shall begin after its coordination, subject to the requirements of art. 17, para. 6 and 7. The contract for the award of passenger transport under the relevant route timetable shall be invalid where the award procedure is opened without its coordination by the authority confirming the relevant route timetable. 3. In para. The first sentence is finally a comma and is added within one month of the assignment. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 3: For the purposes of point (b) of the first subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EC) No 1370/2007, Member States shall ensure that the following conditions are met: 2. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 4 and is amended as follows: The owners of bus stations shall apply the same criteria to all carriers of the transport scheme concerned when determining the amount of crossing, stay and ticket rights. 3. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 5 is amended as follows: The determination of the prices under para. 4, their maximum size and the conditions under which an update of this amount is made shall be determined by a methodology established by the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications on the basis of the categorization of the bus stations. Update the maximum price amount under para. 4 may be carried out once a year. 4. So far, the Al. 5 is repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u180	Thank you. Statements? Mr. Polychronov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u181	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My statement relates to § 14, where the following change is made to para. 3: The owners of bus stations may allow carriers who carry out occasional or specialised passenger transports for payment. What was it so far? Random transports were carried out from places designated by municipal councils, but not always the place itself was appropriate and the danger of transport accidents was posed. In this context, the text is very good so that carriers can enter the bus stations, carry out their specialized or occasional transport, subject to all regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u182	- What's the line? Any other speeches? I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 12 and the version proposed by the Commission for the texts of paragraphs 13 and 14. They voted 114 MPs: for 114, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u183	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u184	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I shall put to the vote the texts of the importer for paragraphs 15, 16 and 17. They voted 108 MPs: for 106, against 2, no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u185	Under § 18, there is a proposal from Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u186	I'm withdrawing it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u187	Mr. Svilensky, you're withdrawing your offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u188	Proposal by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 18: .............................................................................. Article 24 is amended as follows: Art. 24. (1) Taxi transport of passengers shall be carried out by persons under art. 12, para. 1 with cars included in the certificate of registration for the taxi transport of passengers for which an authorisation has been granted by the respective municipality, in the territory of which the transport is to be carried out and which meet the requirements of the ordinance under art. 12a, para. 5. (2) The registered traders under art. 12, para. 1 carry a taxi transport with drivers who have a certificate of driver of a light taxi car valid for the municipality concerned and are psychologically fit. The relationship between the trader and the driver shall be governed by a written contract. (3) The Head of the relevant regional unit of the Executive Agency "Automobile Administration" shall issue a certificate of driver of a light taxi car to a person who: 1. holds a driving licence for a category B motor vehicle issued in the Republic of Bulgaria; 2. has not been convicted of a serious criminal offence or of crimes of general character under Chapter 2 of Chapter 2 of the Code of Penal Code; 3. shall not be deprived of the right to drive motor vehicles by judicial or administrative order or his driving licence shall not be temporarily revoked by a forced administrative measure pursuant to art. 171, p. 1 or 4 of the Road Traffic Act or art. 69a of the Code of Criminal Procedure; 4. there are no administrative penalties imposed for the management of a motor vehicle with a concentration of alcohol in the blood above 0.5 per thousand to 1.2 per thousand in the last year; 5. holds a valid certificate of psychological fitness under the ordinance under art. 152, para. 1, t. 2 of the Road Traffic Act; 6. his certificate as a driver of a light taxi vehicle has not been revoked in accordance with Article 6. 106a in the last year; 7. has successfully passed an exam on topics defined by the ordinance under art. 12a, para. 5. (4) The certificate under para. 3 shall be issued for a period of 5 years. A new certificate shall be issued without an examination if the person meets the requirements of para. 3, p. The application was lodged within 6 months of the expiry of the certificate of driver of a light taxi vehicle. (5) The examination under para. 3, p. 7 shall be held by the Executive Agency of Automobile Administration by order, appointed by the Executive Director of the Executive Agency of Automobile Administration. (6) The order for issuing the certificate of driver of a light taxi car shall be determined by the ordinance under art. 12a, para. 5. (7) The Head of the relevant regional unit of the Executive Agency "Car Administration" shall withdraw by order the certificate of driver of a light taxi car, which shall cease to comply with any of the requirements of para. 3, p. 6. The order is subject to challenge by the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. (8) After carrying out the transport, the driver of a light taxi vehicle shall issue a document from the taxi system containing information on the date and time of the start and conclusion of the transport, the value of the transport, the distance travelled, the time of the transport, the data of the carrier and the registration number of the vehicle by which the transport was carried out.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u189	Thank you. Colleagues, you have a say in this. There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 18. They voted 101 MPs: 81, none, abstention 20. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u190	According to § 19 there is a proposal from the MPs Halil Letifov and Ihsan Hakku. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u191	I withdraw the offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u192	You're withdrawing the offer, Mr. Svilensky. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u193	The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 19: "Seriously, I'm In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24a The following amendments shall be made: 1. Alinei 1 and 2 are amended as follows: The permit for taxi transport of passengers shall be issued by the mayors of municipalities or officials authorised by them on the territory of the municipality on which the transport is to be carried out for each individual vehicle. The authorisation shall also include drivers who will carry out the activity on behalf of the registered trader but on their own account. (2) Permission under para. 1 shall be issued to a trader who has submitted an application to the mayor of the municipality in which he will carry out his activity in the taxi transport of passengers, and: 1. The taxi vehicle shall meet the requirements of the ordinance under art. 12a, para. 5 and for it there is a certificate of technicality issued with an additional examination for the taxi transport of passengers and is entered in the register under art. 12, para. 4; 2. the registered trader has no obligations on taxes and insurance contributions, except where they are deferred or deferred under legal order. 3. In para. 4 words. 1 or 2 and the comma in front of them shall be deleted. 4. Paragraph 5 is amended as follows: The authorisations issued shall be entered in the register under art. 12, para. 4. 4. Paragraph 8 is amended as follows: The mayor of the municipality or an official authorised by him shall terminate the authorisation by order: 1. on the application of the registered trader; 2. upon termination of the registration of the carrier under the order of that law; 3. upon deletion of the taxi from the register under art. 12, para. 4; 4. upon notification of the trader in accordance with art. 182, para. 2, p. 2 of the Tax Insurance Procedure Code. 5. upon notification by the Executive Agency 24, para. 7 or under the enforcement of a forced administrative measure under art. 106a, para. 1, t. 7. 5. Paragraph 11 is amended as follows: The municipal councils shall determine, by 31 October, minimum and maximum charges for the charging of passengers per kilometre of service under the corresponding tariff for the following year, valid for the territory of the municipality concerned. Where the municipal council does not set minimum and maximum prices for the current year, prices shall apply as of 31 December of the previous year. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20. Under § 21, there is a proposal from Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 21: .................................................................. Art. 24c. (1) The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications and the Minister of Health shall lay down by regulation the conditions and arrangements for carrying out transport with special vehicles to disabled persons, persons with reduced mobility, sick and injured persons. (2) The transports under para. 1 may be carried out by carriers, municipalities, non-profit legal entities for public utility activities and legal entities registered as traders under the Commercial Law under the terms and conditions laid down by the ordinance under para. 1. (3) Municipalities and non-profit legal entities may carry out the transport under para. 1 with special vehicles of category Ml
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u194	Statements, coworkers? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u195	Paragraph 21, let's vote separately.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u196	Okay, I get it. Statements, coworkers? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 19, as well as the text of the importer for § 20. Vote 95 MPs: 80, none, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 21. Vote 98 MPs: 94, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u197	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Article 24d is amended as follows: Art. 24 years. (1) Attraction transports shall be carried out by traders registered under the Commercial Law and entered in the municipality database where the transport will be carried out. The mayors of municipalities shall establish and maintain a database in which they record vehicles and persons carrying out transports with an attraction purpose in the territory of the municipality concerned, on which the activity will be carried out after an application not earlier than 7 days before the date of the start of the activity. (2) The application under para. 1 contains: 1. name, legal form and address of management of the trader; 2. data on motor vehicles and road vehicles to be carried out for attraction purposes; 3. a description of the route, which contains a starting and end point. (3) The mayors of municipalities shall determine the route of movement of the road vehicles and of the compositions of road vehicles with which the transport is carried out for an attraction on the territory of the respective municipalities, taking into account the routes of movement not to duplicate the schedules of the bus lines from the established transport scheme and subject to the safety requirements for road traffic. (4) The databases under para. Two are public. (5) The carriages shall be carried out by drivers entitled to drive the relevant road vehicle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 23: ..................................................... In Chapter 3, Section III is created art. 24e: Art. 24e. (1) One of the following transport documents shall be issued in the event of an attraction transport: 1. tickets under the order of the ordinance under art. 118, para. 2 and 4 of the Value Added Tax Act and art. 9, para. 1 of the Law on personal income taxes from: (a) electronic cash registers with fiscal memory; (b) fiscal printers; (c) fiscal devices embedded in self-service machines and the ticket is issued on paper; (d) integrated automated commercial management systems. 2. tickets under the order of the ordinance art. 7, para. 3 of the Accounting Act. 3. electronic tickets. (2) The vehicle documents under para. 1 contain at least the following props: 1. the name and address of the management of the registered trader carrying out the transport for an attraction purpose; 2. the inscription of the ticket for attraction transport. 3. ticket number; 4. transport price; 5. date of issue of the ticket for the transport documents under para. 1, t. 1; 6. route.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u198	Are there any statements under § 22 and § 23? I can't see. Anyone who agrees with the version of paragraphs 22 and 23 in accordance with the Commission's proposal, please vote. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u199	Under § 24, there is a proposal from Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 24. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 24: .................................................................................. Section IV with Article 3 shall be established in Chapter 3. 24f and 24g: Section IV Travel aid Art. 24. (1) Road assistance opened for public use shall be carried out by natural or legal persons registered under the Commercial Law or under the Non-Profit Legal Entities Act entered in the register under para. 4 and having at least one vehicle with Bulgarian registration, own or employed, which meets the requirements of para. 6. (2) Road assistance under para. 1 may also be carried out by licensed carriers with vehicles meeting the requirements of para. 6 and entered in the register under para. 4. The licensed carriers shall apply for the entry of vehicles in the register under para. 4 in the row of art. 8, para. 2. (3) The Executive Director of the Executive Agency shall issue a certificate of entry in the Register under para. 4 of the persons under para. 1 on the basis of the following documents: 1. a written application stating the name and registration details of the applicant; 2. a list of vehicles with which the service will be carried out transport of a vehicle for repair and an address of the operating base; 3. a certified copy of a rental or leasing contract for vehicles with a lease or lease term of not less than one year, valid at the date of submission of the request for the issue of the registration certificate in the register where the person does not use his own vehicles. The contract shall indicate that the vehicle will be used to carry out road assistance; 4. a document certifying the rights of the person under para. 1 as subscriber to the call number of a tow truck; 5. a copy of a document for a fee for issuing a certificate. (4) The Executive Agency shall keep and maintain a public register of road users. The register shall include: 1. number and date of certificate under para. 3; 2. name and EIC of the person under para. 1; 3. data on motor vehicles: (a) registration number; (b) make and model; 4. telephone number for road assistance; 5. address of the operating base; 6. date of deletion of registration and the reasons for that. (5) The persons under para. 1 carry out the activity with own or leased vehicles entered in the register under para. 4 respectively, with means of transport entered in the register under art. 4, para. 1. In the register under para. 5 vehicles of categories N2 or N3 may be entered specially equipped for the carriage of a damaged or emergency vehicle and N1 vehicles with a permanently fitted device for lifting the front or rear axle of the damaged vehicle allowing it to be repatriated. (6) Vehicles under para. The name of the person under para 5 shall be indicated by the reference to the title of the person under para. 1 and the telephone number for acceptance of requests for carrying out the activity. (7) In the case of entry or discharge of a vehicle in the register under para. 4 an application to which the documents under para. apply shall be submitted. 3, p. 1.. 3 and 5. (8) Applications under para. 3 and 7 may also be sent by electronic means or by a licensed postal operator. (9) The Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the Automobile Administration shall refuse to issue a certificate of registration or registration of vehicles in the register under para. 4 with a motivated order when the requirements of para 4 are not met. 3, 6 or 7. (10) The order under para. 9 is subject to challenge under the Administrative Procedure Code. 24g. (1) Registration under art. 24e, para. 2 shall terminate: 1. in the event of deletion from the register under art. 24e, para. 4; 2. with the cessation of the business of the sole trader; 3. with the termination of the legal person; 4. upon application of the holder of the registration certificate. (2) Registration shall be deleted where: 1. it has been found to have been issued on the basis of an untrue document or a false document; 2. the person shall cease to meet the requirements of art. 24e, para. 1 or systemic infringements of this law or regulations issued on the basis of it have been committed in the course of their activities. (3) The registration shall be deleted by a reasoned order of the Executive Director of the Executive Agency (4) The order under para. 3 is subject to challenge under the Administrative Procedure Code. The challenge does not stop the execution of the order.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u200	Are there any statements under § 24? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm calling off the debate. We are voting for the Commission's version of § 24. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 24 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u201	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 25. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 26. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 27. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 28. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 29. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 30: 30. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 39 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 1 words - Order No H-18 of 2006 for registration and reporting of sales in commercial sites through fiscal devices (prom., SG No. ...) shall be replaced by the procedure referred to in Article 2. 24d, para. 1, t. 1.................................................................................. (b) c. 4 the terms and conditions for printing and control of securities are replaced by the order under art. 24d, para. 1, t. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Authority') and in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union 2. In para. 2, p. 2: (a) a dash shall be placed after the word "marshrut" in the letter "marshrut" and added for the transport documents under para. 1, t. 1.................................................................................. (b) a dash shall be placed after the word "act" in the letter "for the transport documents referred to in para." 1, t. 1.................................................................................. 3. In para. 4 words - Order No H-18 of 2006 for registration and reporting of sales in the commercial premises through fiscal devices. 24d, para. 1, t. 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's and 1's and 1's.' The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 31: ........................ 31...................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 41, para. 1 all over the word "the carrier" shall be replaced by "the driver." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 32. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 33.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u202	Are there any statements in paragraphs 25 to 33? I won't. I'm calling off the debate. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 25 to 29 the editorials referred to in paragraphs 30 and 31 and the texts proposed by the Commission for paragraphs 32 and 33. Vote 98 MPs: 97 against 1, no abstentions. Paragraphs 25 to 33 have been adopted, including.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u203	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 34: ................. Article 88 is amended as follows: Art. 88. The persons referred to in art. 6, para. 1 that carry passengers on bus lines, persons carrying out transport on their own account and persons under art. 24f, which transport motor vehicles which do not fall within the scope of Regulation (EC) No 561/2006 or AETR, draw up a work schedule for drivers. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 35.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u204	You have the floor for speeches under paragraphs 34 and 35. There aren't any. I'm calling off the debate. I shall put to the vote the version of § 34, as well as the wording of § 35 on a proposal from the Commission. They voted 98 MPs: 98, no opposition and no abstentions. Paragraphs 34 and 35 have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u205	Under § 36, there is a proposal from the MP Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 36. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 36: ................................ 36.................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1 and in it in t. 2 words.............................................................................. Reg. 91, para. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. Reg. 91, para. 2. They're creating an al. 2... In the cases referred to in para. 1, t. 3 registered persons shall submit an application to which the relevant documents referred to in Article apply. 89a, para. 4. (3) The President of the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision or officials authorised by him within one month of the submission of the application for change of circumstances under art. 89a, para. 2 make an entry in the register referred to in Article 2. 89d and issue a certificate when the requirements of art. 89a, para. 2... 5........................................................................... (4) The certificate under para. 3 shall be issued for a period until the expiry of the certificate issued under art. 89a, para. 6. (5) For the issue of the certificate under para. 3 fees shall be collected as determined by the tariff under art. 89a, para. 8..................................................... Under § 37 there is a proposal from Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 37. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 37: ...... 37........................................................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 89c the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 1 the words of the requirements shall be replaced by one of the requirements. (b) c. 2 the words supplied under this Law shall be replaced by their obligations under the Regulation (EU) No 162/2014, this Law. c) create t. 4 and 5. "4." install a manipulation device (to change the data recorded or recorded by) of tachographs and/or conceal the presence of such; 5. perform installation, inspection or repair of tachographs outside the place of service referred to in the certificate of registration. 2. In para. The words "one" shall be replaced by "two" and "one" shall be replaced by "two" and "one" shall be replaced by "one" Under § 38, there is a proposal from Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 38. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 38: ....................... 38........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 91 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the words the Ministry of Internal Affairs shall be a comma and shall be added to the Ministry of Justice. 2. In para. 3 is created t. 13: "13." prescribe measures to remedy the infringement arising from the performance of the activity by the carrier and set a time limit for its removal. 3. In para. 8 after the words. 89, para. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 5 to amend this Regulation. 4. In para. 9 t. 1 is amended as follows: "1." provide mandatory prescriptions where it is found that the requirements of Regulation (EU) No 165/2014, this law and the regulation under art. 89, para. 4; (a) (b) (i) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v); (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u206	Are there any statements under paragraphs 36, 37 and 38? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm calling off the debate. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 36, 37 and 38 in the editorials proposed by the Commission. They voted 107 MPs: for 106, against 1, no abstentions. Paragraphs 36, 37 and 38 have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u207	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 39. There is a proposal from Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 40 ..... 40................... 40...................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 93 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1, in the text before t. 1 the words "Speedly issued licence' shall be replaced by a certificate issued for the motor vehicle for the public transport of passengers or goods, a copy of a Community licence. 2. In para. 2 the number "supplied' is replaced by "supplied'. 3. In para. 5. (a) in the text before t. 1 the words "the light part of the day' shall be replaced by the hourly range between 6,00 and 21,00; (b) c. 1 the number (c) c. 2 the number 4. In para. 6 the number 5. In para. 7 the number "supplied' is replaced by "supplied'. 6. In para. 8 after the words "supplied" a comma shall be placed and added and completed under the conditions and in accordance with the order laid down by the ordinance under art. 7a, para. The value of the product shall be determined on the basis of the following formula: 7. In para. 9 the number This will be § 41 "The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes the following version for § 41. ............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 93a The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2 words.............................................................................. 89b, t. The following are replaced by the following: 1, t. 2. A new para is being created. 3: supposed to fulfil their obligations under art. 89b, para. 1, t. 3, is punished with a penalty of 2000 BGN 3. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 4 and in it the words........................................................................................... 89b, t. For the purposes of this Annex, the following definitions shall apply: 89b, para. 1, t. One or two. 4. The creation of para. 5. supposes the performance of the duties of officials under art. Reg. 91, para. 8, is punished with a fine of BGN 1500 5. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 6 And in it the words are said. One, two or three shall be replaced by one, and one, two or three, shall be replaced by one, and one, two or three, shall be replaced by one, two or three. BGN 10 000 is replaced by BGN 10 000 is replaced by BGN 10 000 is replaced by BGN 10 000 is replaced by BGN 10 000 is replaced by BGN 10 000.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u208	Thank you. That's it. Mr. Letifov, these are paragraphs 39 and 40, these are two paragraphs. The consecutive numbers are 39 and 40, you said 40 and 41.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u209	For the record, the renumbering of the paragraphs from now on will be reserved for the final texts that will correct it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u210	I shall put to the vote § 39 by importer, a new § 40 and § 41 by importer, in the version of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u211	100 MPs voted: for 100, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u212	Under § 41, there is a proposal from Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 41. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 41 be rejected, as it is reflected in its systematic place as a new § 39. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 42, which shall become § 41. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 43, which shall become § 42. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 44, which shall become § 43. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 45, which shall become § 44. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 46, which shall become § 45. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 47, which shall become § 46. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 48, which shall become § 47.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u213	Statements, coworkers? I can't see. I will put the following texts and proposals to the vote: First, the Commission's proposal to reject the text of the importer for § 41 by importer and the texts of the importer for paragraphs 42 to 48, including keeping the relevant numbering and renumbering. They voted 115 MPs: 115, no opposition and no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u214	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 49, which shall become § 48: ............... 48............................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 96e: Art. 96e. (1) Head of transport activity of an undertaking which fails to fulfil its obligations under Regulation (EC) No 1071/2009 shall be punished with a fine of 500 BGN. (2) In case of repeated infringement under para. 1 the penalty is a fine of 1000 BGN The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 50, which shall become § 49: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 102, para. 3 in the text before t. 1 words "al." The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): 4 or the methodology under art. 22, para. The following points are inserted after point 5 (Commission Under § 51, there is a proposal from Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 51. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 51, which shall become § 50: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 104 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 3 the number ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. 3 is replaced by 2. In para. 4 the number 3. In para. 5 the number 4. In para. 6 the number 5. In para. 7 the number 6. Paragraph 13 is amended as follows: When the infringement referred to in paragraph 1 is committed, the Member State concerned shall inform the other Member States and the Commission thereof. One, two, four, seven, 10 and 12 has been remanded, the penalty is a double penalty, and in the case of systemic infringements, the penalty is a triple penalty.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u215	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the following texts of the pleadings proposed by the Commission for the texts of paragraphs 49, 50 and 51 by importer. They voted 109 MPs: 109, no opposition and no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u216	For § 52 there is a proposal from Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 52. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 52, which shall become § 51: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 104h the following amendments shall be made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: A carrier who has not returned to the Executive Agency a licence, a copy of a Community licence or a certificate for the public transport of passengers or goods in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria within the period under art. 11, para. 4, shall be punished with a penalty of 500 BGN. for any non-refundable licence, certified copy or certificate. 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: A carrier subject to a forced administrative measure under art. 106a, para. 1, t. 6 and has not returned a copy of a Community licence or a certificate for public transport of passengers or goods in the territory of the Republic to the Executive Agency. for each unturned copy or certificate. 3. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: A carrier subject to a forced administrative measure under art. 106a, para. 1, t. 6, but performs public transportation of passengers or goods, is punished with a penalty of 2000 BGN. 4. Alinea 6 is amended as follows: A carrier who resigned a certified copy of a Community licence or allowed public transport of passengers or cargo with a decision withdrawn pursuant to art. 11, para. 4 or with a certified copy of a Community licence, shall be punished with a penalty of 1500 BGN. By drawing up the act establishing an administrative infringement, the certified copy shall be revoked. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 53, which becomes § 52, as in para. 1 the word (s) is deleted on a regular basis.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u217	Statements, coworkers? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 52 and the text of the importer for § 53 by the editorial amendment proposed by the Commission. Vote 109 MPs: for 108, no objection, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u218	Proposal by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 53: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The 105th para is A driver who, when checked by the control authorities, did not submit a document required by this law or by a regulation issued on the basis of this law, unless otherwise provided, shall be punished with a fine of BGN 50.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u219	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 53 with a text on the Commission report. They voted 106 MPs: 105 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u220	Under § 54, I am withdrawing the proposal from the MPs Halil Letifov and Ihsan Hakku. Proposal by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 54: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 106a The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) point 1 is amended as follows: "1." a suspension from the movement of a motor vehicle until the infringement has been resolved, but for not more than 12 months: (a) carrying out the carriage of passengers or goods without having issued a certificate for the public transport of passengers or goods or no certified copy of the Community licence; (b) which is not included in a list of a certificate of registration for the conduct of a taxi transport of passengers or is not authorised to carry out a taxi transport of passengers to the municipality concerned; (c) carrying out transport for the own account of passengers or goods without meeting the requirements of art. 12b, para. 1, para. 10 and para. 11; (d) carrying out the transport of a damaged vehicle without complying with the requirements of art. 24f; (b) point 2 is repealed; (c) c. 3: (aa) a comma shall be placed after the words "specialised transport' and a transport for own account or taxi transport shall be added and the words "to the payment of a monetary guarantee' or "to the payment of a monetary guarantee' shall be deleted; (bb) in the letter "in" the words "to payment of a monetary guarantee" or "to payment of a monetary guarantee" shall be deleted; (c) in point (e) the words "to payment of a monetary guarantee or a guarantee' shall be deleted; (d) point 4 is amended as follows: "4." temporary withdrawal of the driving licence of a driver's motor vehicle which: (a) has violated the management, interruption or rest rules until the time for interruption or rest has been used; (b) carry out public transport of passengers or goods by motor vehicle without having issued a certificate for the public transport of passengers or goods or not included in a list of a certificate of registration for the carrying out of a taxi transport of passengers or a certified copy of a Community licence until the infringement has been resolved, but for no more than one year; (c) carry out public transport of passengers by bus and coach in the form of own account transport, occasional, specialised or taxi transport of passengers for a period of one year; (e) create a t. 7. "7." temporary withdrawal of the driver's certificate of a light taxi car for a period of one year, of a driver of a light taxi car carrying out a taxi transport of passengers: (a) without including a taxi vehicle in the mode of registration of the carriage; (b) without authorisation for the respective municipality from which the transport started and/or the motor vehicle is not included in the list of the registration certificate for the carrying out of the taxi transport of passengers; (c) with a taxi apparatus not assessed for compliance and/or not having undergone metrological control; (d) with a light taxi vehicle equipped with a device or device related to the operation of the taxi system which enables the recording and reporting of incorrect data. 2. In para. 2: (a) c. 1 words................................................................................. 1, 2 et seq. The following points are inserted after point 3 (Regulation (b) To be created t. 6: It's six. withdrawal of the driver's certificate of a light taxi vehicle. 3. In para. 3 words................................................................................. 1... 4. Allinei 5 and 6 are canceled. 5. Paragraph 7 is amended as follows: The plates with the registration numbers and documents certifying the registration of the motor vehicle seized in accordance with para. 3 shall be returned after the infringement has been resolved or the expiry of the period referred to in paragraph 3. 1, t. 1 and payment of the fine imposed by the criminal order. 6. The creation of para. 8. "Supposed to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of According to § 55 "A proposal from the MPs Halil Letifov and Ihsan Hakke. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 55: ........... 55....................................................................... The additional provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In § 1: (a) points 1 s 3 are amended as follows: "1." The public transport is a transport carried out for a foreign account or for a payment or an economic benefit carried out by a motor vehicle. 2. A passenger transport is an activity of a person who carries out passenger transport services on a foreign account or for payment or economic benefit. 3. The transport of goods is a transport of goods by a motor vehicle carried out by a person on a foreign account or for remuneration by motor vehicles designed and equipped for the transport of goods, as well as empty courses made in connection with the carriage. (b) point 36 is repealed; (c) point 39 is repealed; (d) shall be established. 56 s 58: ..56. The economic advantage that the person would not have obtained under normal market conditions or vice versa would avoid the costs normally charged by his own financial resources, thus preventing the effects of the smooth functioning of the market mechanisms. 57. For the purpose of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 58. "Travel assistance' means the carriage of a damaged or emergency vehicle by means of a motor vehicle constructed for this purpose. 2. Paragraph 2a is inserted: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. Applications under this law, submitted to the Executive Agency of the Automobile Administration, may be submitted in person or by an authorised person or by post to the headquarters of the Executive Agency of the Automobile Administration of Sofia or to any regional unit of the Agency in the district cities, or signed by qualified electronic signature and submitted electronically under the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Signage.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u221	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the texts of paragraphs 54 and 55. They voted 105 MPs: for 105, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u222	The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 56 be rejected, as it is reflected in its systematic position as point 2 of Paragraph 55. According to § 57 the proposal from the National Representative Halil Letifov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 57 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u223	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I can't see. Colleagues, may I put the two paragraphs to the vote? I shall vote on the Commission's proposal to reject paragraphs 56 and 57. 110 MPs voted: 109 against 1, no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u224	Proposal by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 56: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Paragraph 4 of the Final Provisions establishes para. 6: In the case of municipalities which have not fulfilled or violated their obligations under art. 19th para. 6 and 7 shall not be made available from the state budget under para. 1 for the corresponding schedules. "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u225	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for the creation of a new § 56 with a text under the Commission report. They voted 104 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 3. The offer is accepted. Procedure, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u226	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm doing a procedure to extend the working hours until the Law is passed.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u227	I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Halil Letifov. Vote 96 MPs: 90 against 3, abstention 3. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u228	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. Under § 58, there is a proposal from the MPs Halil Letifov and Ihsan Hakku. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs: In § 58, point is created. 2a: It's 2a. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15, para. 6 sentence 2 is created: "Move taxi cars with customers in such lanes is allowed by a regulation of the municipal council." The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by Krasimir Velchev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 58, which shall become § 57: ...... 57............................................................... In the Law on Road Traffic (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9, para. 1 after the words "No movement of', the self-balanced vehicles shall be added and the comma shall be placed. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 14, para. 1 the word "order' is replaced by "orders'. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15, para. 6 at the end is a comma and is added with the exception of: 1. road vehicles carrying out an occasional or specialised transport of children and/or students; 2. light electric taxi cars carrying at least three passengers. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 69 the words "for landing or boarding' shall be replaced by "downhill' only. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in the text before t. 1 after the words "sweeping' the individual electric vehicle shall be added; (b) point 2 is amended as follows: "2." mechanical or electronic bell and no other audible signal; (c) c. 3 the word "ordain" is replaced by the word "ordained" is replaced by the word "ordained" for the bicycle device. (d) a new item shall be created. 4. "4." for the individual electric vehicle, a white or yellow light-emitting device and a red rear light emitting device; (e) the current t. 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is 6. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 80a: Art. 80a. (1) The driver of an individual electric vehicle shall be obliged to: 1. to use in the dark hours of the day and/or with reduced visibility reflective elements on the visible part of the clothing, allowing it to be easily seen; 2. to move along the built bicycle infrastructure and, in the absence of such a... as close as possible to the right boundary of the lane for movement; 3. in the dark hours of the day and/or in the case of reduced visibility, to drive the individual electric vehicle with the lights on; 4. to move with the correct braking system of the controlled individual electric vehicle; 5. to use a helmet if he is 18 years old. (2) The driver of the individual electric vehicle shall be prohibited: 1. to move on roads and streets on which the maximum permitted speed for movement is more than 50 km/h; the limit does not apply to streets with built bicycle infrastructure; 2. to move in areas marked with a road sign B9 3. move on streets marked with a road sign G13 4. to develop a speed higher than 25 km/h; 5. carry other persons; 6. move parallel to another individual electric vehicle or two-wheeled road vehicle; 7. to drive the vehicle without holding the steering wheel by hand; 8. to move in close proximity to or to another road vehicle; 9. to carry, tow or push objects that interfere with the driving of the vehicle or pose a danger to other road users; 10. to drive the vehicle on areas intended for pedestrians only; 11. to use a mobile phone in the control of an individual electric vehicle. (3) The minimum age of the driver for the control of an individual electric vehicle shall be: 1. sixteen years of bicycle infrastructure and roads and streets with maximum permitted speed up to 50 km/h; 2. fourteen years.. only in bicycle lanes. (4) The ordinance of the municipal council shall determine: 1. lower maximum permissible speeds than those laid down in para. 2, p. 4; 2. the procedure for determining the mandatory parking areas of individual electric vehicles, including the maximum permissible number, as well as the conditions and arrangements for their provision and use. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 81, in the text before t. 1 after the word "mean', a comma shall be placed and added, except for an individual electric vehicle. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 87, t. 2 after the word "Taking', an individual electric vehicle shall be added and a comma shall be placed. 10. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 107, t. 2 the words "motoped" or "mike" shall be replaced by "motoped," motorcycle or individual electric vehicle." 11. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 110 the words "motoped" or "mike" shall be replaced by "motoped," motorcycle or individual electric vehicle." 12. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 143, para. 1 sentence 2 is created: "Motor vehicles of category M2, M3 and N3 as well as special purpose vehicles with the exception of camping cars, campsite-restores, armored vehicles and vehicles accessible to wheelchairs shall only be registered by a legal person, a sole trader or by a natural person registered as a farmer under the Agricultural Assistance Act. 13. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 145a: Art. 145a. (1) Before the transfer of ownership of a registered motor vehicle, the owner of the transferred vehicle may apply for the maintenance of the registration number of the vehicle for the registration of another vehicle of the same category and the termination of the registration of the vehicle by paying a fee of the amount fixed in a tariff of the Council of Ministers. (2) In the cases under para. 1 the application shall be submitted in accordance with the order laid down by the ordinance referred to in Article 1. 140, para. 2. (3) In the cases referred to in art. 143, para. 6 Upon termination of registration of a vehicle for keeping the registration number, an application shall be submitted under para. 2. (4) Within one month of the submission of the application, the applicant shall be entitled to register another motor vehicle with the reserved plates in the cases under para. 1 and 3 in a row determined by the ordinance of art. 140, para. 2. (5) When within the term under para. 4 no other motor vehicle has been registered with the reserved number, the transfer of the ownership of a motor vehicle for which an application under para. 1 or 3 shall be carried out after termination of registration and return of registration plates to the relevant The plates with the license plate are destroyed. (6) Upon registration of another vehicle after the period under para. 4 new plates with registration number shall be placed. 14. Article 148c is repealed. 15. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 150, after the word "supplier', when the vehicle is added, is an individual electric vehicle or an electric vehicle. 16. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 167, para. 2, p. 1 after the word the pedestrians shall be comma and the driving rules of individual electric vehicles moving on a bicycle infrastructure shall be added. 17. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 171, p. Point 2 (d) is repealed. 18. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 172, para. 4 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / 171, p. 2 letters.................................................................................................... 2a (s) shall be replaced by the following: 171, p. 2 letters.................................................................................................... 2a "A" and the words "c." 171, p. 2 19. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 1 is created t. 6 and 7: It's six. drive a bicycle in violation of art. 80, t. 3; 7. drive an individual electric vehicle in violation of art. 80a, para. 1, t. 1 and 5 (b) in para. 4 is created t. 13: "13." drive an individually electric vehicle in violation of art. 80a, para. 1, t. 2? 4 and para. 2 and 3. 20. Paragraph 6 of the additional provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: (a) c. 11 at the end is added to the individual electric vehicles. (b) c. 12 (d) is amended as follows: , (d) special purpose motor vehicles of categories M or N having specific technical characteristics enabling them to perform functions requiring special configuration or equipment; c) create t. 18b and 18c: 18b. A vehicle equipped with an electric motor (s) and a maximum design speed exceeding 6 km/h without or with a seating position with a height of R point (reference point of sitting) not exceeding 540 mm when the vehicle has not more than two wheels or a height of R point exceeding 400 mm when the vehicle has three or more wheels with its own weight up to 50 kg. There are no individual electric vehicles wheelchairs serving disabled persons. 18c. A self-balanced vehicle is a single-wheel vehicle or two parallel wheels driven by an engine whose maximum design speed does not exceed 25 km/h, which is inherently unstable and which needs an auxiliary control system to be maintained in equilibrium. (d) point 29 is amended as follows: It's 29. A public transport is a transport carried out for a foreign account or for a payment or an economic benefit carried out by a motor vehicle.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u229	You have the floor, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u230	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I am making two editorial proposals. One is in § 58, which becomes § 57. Article 3 (c) 15, para. 6 a comma is finally placed and added, except for road vehicles engaged in occasional or specialised transport with children and/or students. A t. 2, which is to this t. 3, the light electric taxi cars carrying at least three passengers to fall due to the fact that there is no way to control how many passengers are in the taxi. We'll create tension on the van lanes. It's about the bus lanes, the taxis can move in the bus lanes. That's why I'm suggesting that this thing drop out, as I suggest it drop out, and so on. 19, para. 1 is created points 6 and 7, t. 6 drop out as it records a bicycle in violation of art. 80, t. There is no such article and there is no such point. That's why I'm suggesting that this thing gets dropped, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u231	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. You have two editorial amendments. Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u232	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I take note of Mr. Ivanov's proposal and it is neither editorial nor technical nor anything else, and it is a thoughtful proposal. It's about light taxi cars moving in the van lanes. This proposal was widely discussed in the Commission and received the support of most MPs and is therefore in the black text. The other proposal, which I had suggested for all taxis to move in the bus lanes when they were with passengers, was not accepted and gone. But this thing was discussed, and that's why it got into the black text. So there's no way we're gonna accept it as editorial or anything technical to get rid of. The only possibility, if you want, of course, to follow the Rules under which the laws are adopted in Bulgaria is to put the entire text to the vote without any editorial and technical ones. The other proposal is editorial, which Mr. Ivanov said to drop the item. 3 back in t. 19. But what about taxi cars is by no means an editorial proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u233	Thank you. Mr. Shopov, a line or a statement? A statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u234	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! The question, the theme of the traffic of taxi cars in the bus lanes is very old. It has been discussed in society more than once and every time this law of amendment enters, and this has happened so often, it is one of the most changing laws, such a proposal has been put forward. For the first time, however, it enters the Chamber, if I am not mistaken. And what the Commission has adopted is the most modest opportunity for taxis to move in bus lanes. This will satisfy a desire of the industry for many years, half, of course, but still this is something. When this question is raised, I realize that there are also.... for........................ and. against....................................................................... I myself have fluctuations in one direction or another, but then when a matter is decided, if you want to make a decision in the judgmental thinking, and here and as the National Assembly, there is also a draw on the scales. But I'm going to shower. This is the case, especially after opinions were taken today, which so far were controversial and which show that the taxi transport is public transport.............................................................................................. If so far there was any hesitation, i.e. no solution was given to the subject and to the question, this is already the case with the general logic of the bill. I come from the general considerations of efficiency, for the use of road lanes. We're all drivers, we know the van lanes are a little used lanes to move, we know who's moving there, I'm not gonna stop to list in detail. But the principle is that the more vehicles move in the other two or three lanes, the more they will be loaded. And the displacement of some of them into the van tape would mean unloading these two sails. Stand on the Tsarigradsko shose a wonderful example in this regard, and you will see. If there are problems with the van tape, these are other unscrupulous drivers, drivers most often on SUVs and luxury cars, which undisturbedly squirm on these van strips, and they create the problem. Unloading the other two lanes with taxi cars will also mean control, if you will, by taxi drivers, who, we all know, are a very slender and organized force that will also control this movement and comply with these rules and prevent other drivers from entering this lane. The considerations, of course, are many more, are against it. The issue is solved differently in different countries, but there are also many countries where such movement is resolved. And by procedure and, essentially, it is a great expectation of taxi drivers for this relief of their work, I tell you. There is an expectation created by the Commission's decision in this regard and in this sense. Do not with these proposals, Mr. Ivanov, in violation of our Rules, submit this rule, and I call for the Commission's decision to be adopted as it is and as it is proposed in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u235	Thank you. Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u236	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would also like to express my opinion against the proposal made by Mr. Ivanov for dropping this item. 2 in art. 15, para. 6, in § 57 of the Road Traffic Act, because the problem is not that it is not only editorial, but it by meaning and idea contradicts the entire debate that we had in the Transport Commission, including the representatives of the Ministry of Interior, and of the Ministry of Transport, and of the various carriers, including taxis. The truth is that with Mr. Svilenski we have made a proposal with which we proposed that all taxi cars with a regulation of the respective municipal council be allowed to move in the van lanes. The idea is that in some van lanes indeed in some cities this may not be appropriate, but in others where municipal councils consider this possible and appropriate, they could admit it. In the end, the Commission adopted one thing, as the previous Mr. Shopov said, a more limited solution on the issue, accepting Mr. Letifov's proposal to allow only electric taxi cars carrying three or more passengers to be allowed in the van. And there is a very strong argument here in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u237	All right, let's vote it out!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u238	Mr. Ivanov, you may speak, of course, please don't interrupt me. This proposal also makes sense from the point of view of ecology, especially in large cities. You and I must, of course, adopt these solutions which promote the use of environmental or more environmentally friendly vehicles. By the way, much of the taxi cars, as we all know, are either methane or gas, which is also not less environmentally friendly, but undoubtedly the most environmentally friendly vehicles, especially for large cities, are electric ones. At the same time, i.e. 1 of this proposal, which we are considering, was admitted by an amendment made in the Commission, moving in the van lanes not only for the specialized transport of children and students, as proposed by Mr. Letifov, but also for the occasional such transport. And if there is a comment on how the control will be carried out in the vehicle, in this case in the taxi car, three or less people ride, whether it is electric or not, I ask myself how the control will be carried out, and there I asked during the debate in the Commission, how will the control be carried out over whether it is carried out by accident or specialized transportation of children and students? But we have all agreed in the Commission that it is reasonable to support the proposal that children and students be transported as quickly as possible and not delay both the occasional and the specialized transportation of children and students. Therefore, I think it is wise to support Mr. Letifov's proposal and indeed the taxi cars to be allowed to move in the van lane. And please do not support the proposal made by Mr. Stanislav Ivanov for dropping this point. Thank you. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u239	I'll explain why I'm going to put it to the vote. Are there any other statements? Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u240	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! The paragraph in question is extremely important and we have had perhaps months of debates, working in working groups and in committees, for which I thank both colleagues and all participants. We have hardly reached some conclusions and texts, including for registration plates, which in itself is a reform, but we have tried to find an approach that will prove appropriate and work. We also found the texts with which to at least initially find the regulation for the movement of self-balanced so-called electric trotinettes on the road, which is also an expected regulation, extremely important, and we hope with these texts to make good enough regulation for less traumatism, because more and more we see that every day traumaticism and crashes with such electric vehicles are a fact, unfortunately. We therefore hope that we have indeed found this approach and will regulate this activity with the idea of preserving the health and life of all the participants in the movement. The proposals that we have made with fellow Hakke are essential in themselves. One is to drop the letter of art. 171, which is an injustice, and we all agreed that there must be that justice, based on the texts of the Constitution, that the act or infringement is an individual act and everyone is personally responsible for it. The other two points for which Mr. Ivanov asked for a separate vote are also very important. I share his approach or his understanding of each of these points is important in itself, and I really wish we could approach these texts responsibly enough. First of all, the attitude towards our children is the most important thing. We approached with the idea of allowing specialized, in this case, as Mr. Danchev said, the occasional transportation of children and students or students as essential, first, so that they can move faster, but safer, with the idea that, by allowing them in the van tape, we will keep them and reduce the trauma that is happening. Not to mention that every year, due to road accidents, we lose one class of children. This is a black statistics and the idea of caring for our children is the proposal of this text. I hope that he will meet support because this is our attitude towards children, heritage and Bulgaria. The other text is what Mr. Danchev says, we have had long conversations in the Commission about the admission of electric taxis on the van band, they are still rare with the idea that we should encourage this type of transport, given that I am not mistaken that they were about 6000 only on the territory of Sofia.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u241	There's none.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u242	What's the problem?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u243	On the territory of the whole country becomes an impressive number. I admit that there should have been a comprehensive approach here and we would have found a solution to stimulate this process, not just for taxis, but, if you will, for households. Because at this stage we have, if I have to say so, a public policy only for public transport... to impose buses with electric drive. But the proposal itself opened the debate in the Commission, and not only. It is right for this debate to be open to public use and to achieve a better result in terms of this decarbonisation, which Europe is talking about, we are also talking about. It cannot be achieved if we do not have targeted action and if we do not make this picture about the state of transport. The official data is that carbonisation actually represents a quarter of the transport activity. This is a small step which, however, needs to be developed. So I take it this debate is going through development. If it is once again supported by the proposed point, it may be necessary to allow the municipal councils to assess where and where this cannot be applied from the point of view of the traffic itself, but I think it is necessary that we from now on think, firstly, in this direction, to reduce harmful emissions, to protect the environment and especially health. I trust that these texts will be supported for the benefit of people as well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u244	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. - What's the line? A line or a statement?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u245	A statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u246	You have the floor, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u247	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I'm referring to the editorial proposal, which is supposedly editorial in terms of small electric taxi cars and allows them to access the bus lanes. This isn't just about ecology. This isn't just about fresh air. This is also about efficiency. By the way, gentlemen in charge, your Deputy Prime Minister is constantly talking about increasing energy efficiency in Bulgaria, given that transport is in the most difficult situation in terms of energy efficiency and one of the ways your Deputy Prime Minister provides as an example is the electrification of this transport and the introduction of more electric vehicles. I wonder how you offer something that stimulates electric cars only in the area of taxi transport, you try to remove it! This is about an elementary admission of 10, 15, 20 I don't know how many cars in Sofia are electric, but I think there isn't. Still, at least to stimulate them to have them. Because this, on the one hand, will have a beneficial impact, as has already been said, on the environment, will have an impact on improving the energy efficiency indicators in transport, because electricity transport is the most efficient transport. It will help us achieve European goals that are set for us both in the field of ecology and in the field of energy efficiency. It will contribute to this measure to at least reduce air pollution to a large extent in Sofia if we stimulate this type of taxi transport and it starts to move. I would understand such an editorial amendment if the number had been removed, three employed, and only one. For example! A busy electric charge that can move there. [[Reply of MP Stanislav Ivanov.]] If it's busy, it's glowing red, Stanislav!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u248	How do you know one or three?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u249	That is what I said: if you had made an offer to take up three and be just a busy fee, I would have accepted it and supported it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u250	And now you don't support him!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u251	But to remove it at all is absolutely unacceptable. It's totally unacceptable! You'd better make an editorial offer to take the electric charge.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u252	How many taxis are there in Sofia? Not one!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u253	Yeah, because they don't have an incentive.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u254	We'll do it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u255	I'll ask, Mr. Chairman, if I may, Mr. Ivanov to give me a line later, not to have a dialogue here with him.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u256	He'll make you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u257	There won't be if we don't make some incentive for this kind of transport, which is used and people know that by riding an electric car, except that it can stop somewhere where it's only for electric cars, so that it can charge somewhere, and if it uses the taxis, it can really have a choice and say, "I want to get from point A to point B fast, so I want to order electrical charges, because it will be my safest, cleanest and most efficient transport. I cannot understand why you are making proposals that are against all your goals that you have announced in your management program! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u258	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line? Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u259	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Ermenkov, they simply have no goals! They don't know what their goals are! [[Shouts from GERB: "Eee! "]] At four meetings of the Transport Commission, there is no representative of the Council of Ministers to state the position of the Council of Ministers. [[Reply of MP Stanislav Ivanov.]] We are talking technically about how we will count in the taxi, we are getting there technically: how many taxis and how to count passengers inside and not policies: whether there should be urban or public transport to difficult places, whether there should be taxis, whether there should be public transport?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u260	That's not the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u261	This is gone, there is no answer to the question of what their policy is without politics!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u262	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Another line? I won't. A hole? Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u263	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mr. Svilenski, I have not been to a meeting of the Committee on Transport, so I cannot take into account the presence or absence of representatives of the Ministry or of the Council of Ministers there, but I am reading what the Programme is trying to get acquainted with, so that if we find some similar moments and policies for the benefit of the people, we can unite around them, but there is no way we can do this when making proposals that are exactly in the opposite direction. There is a management program that is published, there are public statements by government representatives to fight for cleaner air and greater energy efficiency and in general against common sense, which should make us not only three, but at all any fees that are electric and occupied, it glows in red I don't want to talk about the wider problem of whether all taxis should move or not, this is a completely different topic of a completely different conversation. We're talking about something here that proves once again that it's not an editorial amendment, it's essential, and so am I, if I'm in the lead of this meeting, I'm not going to let it vote at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u264	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Are there any other speeches? I won't. I am closing the debate and we will move on to the vote. First, I will put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the division. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. I now put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs. Vote 94 MPs: 22, against 57, abstention 15. The offer is not accepted. Now I will put to the vote the proposals of the MP Stanislav Ivanov. I don't have to explain why, but I'll do it out of respect. [[Relations of National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] I'll do it out of respect. First, I believe that within the meaning of para. Art. 4 of art. 84 I have the right to put it to the vote, because within the meaning of the same article in para. 2 proposals do not contradict, as they are proposals for dropping the initially adopted version of the Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u265	Adopted by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u266	Therefore, I put to the vote first the first proposal of the MP Stanislav Ivanov. [[Relations of National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] The fact that it was adopted by the Commission... I'm arguing, Mr. Svilensky, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u267	You can vote separately, but you can't take it out.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u268	We need a separate vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u269	That's what I did separately. [[Reply from "BSP About Bulgaria": "He wants to drop the text. "]] Wait, you misunderstood me! It's leaking...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u270	A separate vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u271	There's no vote going on right now, is there? No! At the moment, I will put to the vote the first proposal to drop the text of the MP Stanislav Ivanov. [[(Reply of National Representative Georgi Svilenski:]] It is. Please, voting mode. [[(Replication of the National Representative Georgi Svilenski: It is a split vote on this drop-out point.]] Okay, editorial amendment. [[Reply of National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u272	What are we voting on right now?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u273	Stanislav Ivanov's first proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u274	What did you propose, Mr. Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u275	In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 57, p. 3 point 2. [[The National Representative Georgi Svilenski and the Chairman of the sitting Emil Hristov are specified.]] Have all the MPs been able to vote? Vote 76 MPs: 67 against 8, abstention 1. The offer is accepted. [[(Comments from GERB: Not accepted. Not accepted.]] Yes, Mr. Ivanov, the proposal is not accepted. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u276	Revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u277	You want a re-vote. Colleagues, re-vote!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u278	Procedure, procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u279	Procedure! Cancel the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u280	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! There were colleagues who had not yet entered the Chamber, please take a re-vote procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u281	Re-voting, is it?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u282	Yeah, yeah, re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u283	Okay, I get it, Mr. Ivanov. I'm going to re-vote. Vote 84 MPs: 72, against 10, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Now I will put to the vote the second proposal of the MP Stanislav Ivanov. Vote 92 MPs: 78, against 12, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. I will now put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 58 with the amendments already adopted. 88 MPs voted: 86, against 2, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u284	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 59, which shall become § 58. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 60, which shall become § 59. Proposal by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 60: ........................................................ In the Law on Tourism (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 79, para. 5 words The light part of the day shall be replaced by the hourly range between 6,00 and 21.00. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 61: ......... 61..................................................................... In the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Roads (BW, No. ...) in § 33, t. 3 of the transitional and final provisions, the words "18-months' shall be replaced by "30-months'.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u285	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for paragraphs 59 and 60 with the corresponding renumbering; and the Commission's proposal to create a new § 60 with a text under the Commission Report; and the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 61. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u286	Under § 62, there is a proposal from Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 62. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 62 be rejected. Under § 63, there is a proposal from Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 63. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 63, which shall become § 62: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss On motor vehicles of category M2, MH and N3, as well as special vehicles with the exception of camping-cars, campsite-restores, armored vehicles and vehicles accessible to wheelchairs not registered by a legal person, single trader or by a natural person registered as a farmer under the Agricultural Support Act, the registration shall be suspended after 31 December 2021. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 64, which shall become § 63. Proposal by Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 64: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss (1) Until the entry into force of this law, registration proceedings (2) The registration certificates issued until the entry into force of this Act for the conduct of a taxi transport of passengers with a light taxi car shall remain valid until the expiry of the validity period.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u287	Are there any speeches? Colleagues, do you mind if I make all the suggestions? You don't. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the text of the importer for § 62 to be rejected; the version proposed by the Commission for § 63; the text of the importer for § 64; and the proposal to create a new § 64 with the text on the Report. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u288	There is a proposal by Krasimir Velchev and a group of MPs: In the transitional and final provisions, § 64a is created: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Within three months of the entry into force of this Act, the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of The Commission does not support the proposal. Under § 65, there is a proposal from Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 65. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 65: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The law shall enter into force on the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union, with the exception of: 1. paragraph 61, which shall enter from 28 March 2020; Art. 2 (8), as regards art. 12, para. 1 six, par. 7, p. 1 et c. 3 and 4 and para. 8 "14" § 9, p. 1, § 17, § 18 and § 57, p. 13, which shall enter into force from 1 January 2021; Art. 3 (8), as regards art. 12, para. 7, p. 2 and § 19, which enter into force two years after the promulgation of the Law in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u289	Thank you. Statements, coworkers? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. First, I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Krasimir Velchev and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u290	I'm withdrawing it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-25.u291	The motion is withdrawn, there will be no vote. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 65. Vote 92 MPs: 80, none, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. I continue with parliamentary control announcements on 26 June 2020: 1. Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev will answer one question from the MPs Kristina Sidorova and Polina Shishkova. I. Question Debates Debates on the asking of MPs Rumen Gechev and Georgi Svilenski to the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a new concept of taxation of gambling games, declared by the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov in March 2016. II. Questions and Questions 2. The Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev will answer three questions from the MPs Irena Anastasova; Valentina Naydenova; and Vasil Antonov, Kolyo Milev and Hristo Prodanov. 3. Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova will answer three questions from the MPs Dzhevdet Chakarov and Hayri Sadakov; Dora Yankova; and Krum Zarkov and Georgi Stoilov. 4. The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Dessislava Taneva will answer a question from the MP Smilyana Niva. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the HNS delaying replies by seven days have requested: - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Desislava Taneva to two questions with written answer from the National Representative Rumen Georgiev; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question from the MPs Georgi Gokov, Manol Genov, Veska Nencheva, Dragomir Stoinev and Georgi Tarnovalyski; - the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev to three questions from the MPs Anna Slavova and Kristina Sidorova; and Irena Anastasova, two questions; and two questions with a written answer from the MP Irena Anastasova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova to two questions from the MPs Milko Nedyalkov; and Boryana Georgieva; - Minister of Justice Danail Kirilov to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to three questions with written answer from the MPs Anna Slavova [[two questions]] ; and Philip Popov; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov to two questions from the MPs Rumen Gechev; and Dora Yankova; - Culture Minister Boyl Banov "to a question with a written answer from the MPs Georgi Gokov and Nona Yotova. For lack of respectable reasons, Members of the National Assembly shall postpone the responses to: - a question from the MPs Evdokiya Asenova and Veska Nencheva to the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev; - a question from the MPs Dzhevdet Chakarov and Hayri Sadakov to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova. Due to a pre-planned international commitment, the Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. The next regular plenary session of 26 June 2020 at 9.00 in accordance with the adopted Work Programme. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
