ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u1	Good afternoon, fellow Members. There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Draft Programme for the Work of the National Assembly from 14 to 16 October 2020: "1." First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Physical Education and Sports. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 28 September 2020 2. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Patents and Registration of Useful Models. Importer supposed the Council of Ministers on 4 February 2020. Adopted in the first vote on 2 July 2020. 3. First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Environmental Protection Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 18 September 2020 Point 1 for Thursday, 15 October 2020 4. Draft Law on the ratification of the International Development Association's Constitutional Treaty of 24 September 1960. Importer "The Council of Ministers" on 29 September 2020. Point 1 for Friday, 16 October 2020 5. Parliamentary control. Please vote on the proposed work programme. Vote 141 MPs: 121 against 14, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. For the procedure Mr. Chenchev, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My procedure is for you, Madam President. Every one of us, the MPs, looking at the agenda, can't help but think. Madam President, it is my remark to you, because at four points of the agenda and with so many bills that have introduced the opposition, as they say, stand on logs. At the moment, I remember that within this Parliament, Madam President, in the first two years of its existence, we have introduced five times for consideration in this House and the Youth Bill has not been allowed! We can't help but object to this thing, especially when you have four agenda points, and there are so many bills that don't come in, they don't even go to plenary and you don't order them to look at committees. And lastly, Madam President. Seeing this agenda, four points that have to deal with the people's representation, you are progressively regressing. I hope there's one point next week and it's for the cabinet's resignation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Mr. Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u4	Thank you. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! My procedure is back on the agenda, because this four-point agenda is an emancipation of your helplessness, of the lack of ideas of this Parliament. [[Noise and lines.]] Today, when the world is shaking, when the political, social and economic crises in Bulgaria take on frightening sizes, you offer this likeness of a four-point agenda with no butchery towards the serious situation in Bulgaria! This agenda shows your distance from the Bulgarian people. This agenda is yet another proof that this Parliament, in this Chamber, is exhausted, that you have no idea that you have no policies to suggest that your idea is not an idea but a fixation, is only March 2021 at the cost of everything. Stop abusing parliamentaryism, the Bulgarian people! Gather your freakin' party...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u5	What's the procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u6	...turn in your resignation and report to the elections! [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u7	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Mrs. Yankova, come in for a procedure. Just, please, don't make any speeches. It's procedure. Otherwise, there is a possibility of a declaration on behalf of a group.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Madam President, my procedure is in connection with the work of the Legal Committee this week or the next. I also appeal to you and to the Chair of the Legal Commission to complete an activity in which we all swear that we are about a change in the Law on Protection from Domestic Violence. February 2018 we submitted such a bill. On 9 May 2018, it was adopted with impressive agreement by the Assembly.. 114 votes for............................................................................................................................. and 3...................................................................................................................... And I don't know why he stayed on logs to stay on the Legal Committee. We have missed two years and nine months. We have missed two budgets, colleagues! We have a lack of 18 crisis centers in district cities to protect against domestic violence. We have reports from all institutions that during the coronavirus and during emergency situations domestic violence has increased. In my experience, I know how a woman can come, a child, a man of domestic violence and have nothing to do when you're mayor. I therefore propose that, Madam President, you set up an organisation with the Chair of the Legal Committee, that the report drawn up for second reading be reviewed by the Legal Committee. I am addressing you not only as a chairman, but as a woman, and as all the women in Parliament, to support and bring this bill to a successful conclusion! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. I agree with what you said. I'll look into the case and see exactly how the chronology of this bill goes. Another procedure, Mr. Ivanov. Mrs. Yankova's remark was completely justified.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u10	Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to make a procedure, but first I would like to point out that all the comments made by my fellow Members on the legislative order of this National Assembly were justified, which clearly does not coincide with that of society. The procedure is as follows: I ask you to invite the Minister of Interior here in the Chamber, because, unfortunately, the Ministry of Interior has once again become sadly known for an action in quotes to call it an innocent citizen who suffered in which a group for the detention of the Ministry of Interior broke into the home of an innocent family with insults, with threats, with beatings. We want to explain whose mistake it is to someone from the Ministry of Interior's leadership, is this the whole organization of the Ministry of Interior and who will bear the responsibility for such outrageous actions that we have witnessed? We have seen the pressure this family has been subjected to. Are there such other cases, are they covered up and who will bear the responsibility? Therefore, please invite the Interior Minister here as soon as possible to find out why this shameful stain has been placed on the work of the Ministry of Interior and who will clean it up? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. I'll contact the Home Secretary when I get off the stand. Draft and draft resolutions from 7 to 13 October 2020: Draft Law on the Bulgarian Sign Language. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Education and Science, the Committee on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Complaints of Citizens, the Committee on Culture and Media, the Committee on Health, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on Budget and Finance. Draft amending and supplementing the Election Code. Importer "Krasimir Jankov" and group of MPs. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Legal Affairs. Report on the activities of the Prosecutor's Office on the implementation of the Law in the period January "August 2020," according to the National Assembly's decision of 23 July 2020. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. A bill amending and supplementing the Public Enterprises Act. Importer Daniela Daritkova. It is allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Structure of the Area. Importer of the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management, the Committee on Culture and Media, the Committee on Environment and Water, the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications. Messages: Deputy Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria shall inform the National Assembly that: I. In the performance of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces, by its orders it has authorised: 1. The passage through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria of the non-military nature of an airplane with its crew from the Royal Air Force of Thailand. The authorisation shall be valid for the period from 12 to 15 October 2020 for a total of two flights for the transport of the Prince of Thailand. 2. The passage through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria of the non-military nature of an airplane with its crew of the Brazilian Air Force. The authorisation shall be valid for the period from 4 to 7 November 2020 for a flight for the purpose of transporting the Minister of Defence of the Federal Republic of Brazil. The orders issued are within the competence of the Minister of Defence, concerning the assessment of the military parameters of the passage with a view to the defence of the country. On issues concerning export control and compliance with international plantation regimes mandatory for the Republic of Bulgaria, the country's airspace clearances should be granted to the State concerned after a positive opinion from the competent authorities in these areas "the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs." II. In the performance of art. 65, para. 1 of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, by its orders he has authorised: 1. The dispatch and use of aircraft and crew of military personnel from the Air Force of the Republic of Bulgaria to provide air transport for the needs of the Ministry of Defence on dates and routes as follows: - on 11 October 2020 Sofia - Brussels, the Kingdom of Belgium; - on 12 October 2020, Brussels, the Kingdom of Belgium, Sofia. 2. The dispatch and use of aircraft and crew from the Air Force of the Republic of Bulgaria to carry out special flights for air medical evacuation for the needs of the Ministry of Health on 12 October 2020 by route: Sofia, Paris, the Republic of France and back to Sofia. The notifications were received on 9 October 2020 with entry number 003-09-84-87 and submitted to the Defence Committee. The Court of Auditors, by letter of entry 024-00-13 of 9 October 2020, provided the National Assembly with a list of the completed financial audits of the annual financial statements for September 2020. The material is made available to the Committee on Budget and Finance. Audit reports on financial audits carried out have been published on the Court of Auditors' website. According to the Law on the Fiscal Council and the automatic corrective mechanisms, the National Assembly received an Opinion of the Fiscal Council on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Public Finance Act. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the material was sent to the Committee on Budget and Finance and was available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. The National Statistical Institute has received information about: - R & D indexes in the section "Retail trade', excluding trade in cars and motorcycles' in the month of August 2020; - Industrial production indexes in August 2020; - Construction production indexes in August 2020. We continue with the first item of today's agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR PHYSICAL RECOGNITION AND SPORTS. With the report of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports, Mr. Chenchev will get acquainted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On 7 October 2020, the Commissioner for Children, Youth and Sports at a regular meeting held on 7 October 2020 discussed and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Physical Education and Sports, No 002-01-46, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 September 2020. The meeting was attended by Mr. Stoyan Andonov, Deputy Minister of Youth and Sports; Dr. Violeta Zarkova, Executive Director, and Mrs. Silvia Mindova. On behalf of importers, the bill was presented by Deputy Minister Stoyan Andonov, who pointed out that the proposed amendments to the Law on Physical Education and Sports aim to bring it into line with the World Anti-opping Code 2021, which enters into force from 1 January 2021. The proposed amendments clarify the basic principles applicable to the hearing bodies of the Disciplinary Commission and the Bulgarian Sports Arbitration to the Bulgarian Olympic Committee, as well as the procedure for dealing with infringements of the anti-opping rules. The existing anti-opping system and the corresponding sanctions shall be precise. The amendments and additions made to Code 2021 shall also be linked to the new international standard of education promoting behaviour in accordance with the values of clean sport and preventing the use of doping. The amendments to the Code define the role of national anti-opping organisations in their operational decisions and activities to be independent of sport and governments. In order to harmonise with the texts of the Code, the Bill proposes a supplement that defines the Antidopping Centre as an independent body in its operational decisions and activities. Following the adoption of the proposed amendments, the Ministry of Youth and Sport will propose to the Council of Ministers to adopt a new regulation on anti-opping activities, which will reflect the new moments in the World Anti-opping Code. With the amendments to Code 2021, financial penalties for infringements of anti-dumping rules are no longer mandatory. They will only be imposed when the applicable maximum period for deprivation of rights has already been imposed. This amendment requires the annulment of art. 148 of the Law on Physical Education and Sports, which does not prevent sports organizations from providing in their rules or in their contracts with athletes similar consequences. The importer stressed that the bill is in line with the World Anti-opping Agency. As a result of the discussion and on the basis of the 17-vote vote held, the Commission on Children's Affairs, Youth and Sports proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Physical Education and Sports, No 002-01-46, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 September 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u14	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I request permission to allow the admission of Stoyan Andonov to the Deputy Minister of Youth and Sports, and to Dr. Violeta Zarkova, Executive Director of the Antidoping Center.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u15	Thank you. I shall put the proposal to the vote. Ms. Nencheva, can't you do it? Take out the map, put it on, reboot the device. [[Heckling]] Okay, we'll take special precautions for your device. Vote 168 MPs: 164 against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Invite those admitted to the hall. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman, Members of the National Assembly! The Antidopping Code was adopted for the first time in 2003 and entered into force in 2004. In 2003 Bulgaria signed a Declaration on the Fight against Doping in Sports, with which the Code became mandatory for the country both with the signed declaration and with the ratified International Convention on the Fight against the Use of Doping in Sports. The Code was subsequently made, colleagues, three amendments, 2015 and 2018, and the Law on Physical Education and Sports was brought into line with the amendments. This bill now introduces the Law on Physical Education and Sports in accordance with the amended version of the Code for 2021. The expected outcome of the implementation of the proposed amendments and additions will enable us to update our regulations in due time so that the latter will enter into force as of 1 January 2021. Colleagues, each of you, as MPs, has the right to take an opinion, to express your views accordingly, but I think that we are simply obliged by WADA to support these amendments to the Code, which have been ratified by Bulgaria. I just want to remind you of something that is very serious for the first time in WADA we have a member of the Board of Directors, for the first time in the history of sport, and this is our Minister Kralev, who is a member of the Board of the WADA for the Antidoping Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u17	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. - What's the line? I won't. We continue with the speeches. I don't see any other speeches. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Physical Education and Sports, No 002-01-46, submitted by the Council of Ministers. Take a look at it again, Mrs. Nencheva cannot vote. I'll wait for you, Mrs. Krasteva. They voted 159 MPs: 159, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. We continue with the next item of the Work Programme: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR PATIENTS AND THE REGISTERATION OF AIR MODELS. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Here you are, Mr. Kanev, to present the Second Voting Report to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u18	Colleagues, the law is quite long and heavy, and I think we'll be together for the next few hours. First procedure: guests in the hall during the discussion. On the basis of art. 49 of our Boards of Directors from the Ministry of Economy: Silvana Lyubenova Director of the Department of Technology Harmonization and Consumer Policy
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u19	I shall put the proposal to the vote. They voted 123 MPs: 110, none, abstention 13. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u20	"Report on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Patents and Registration of Useful Models, No 002-01-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 February 2020, adopted on the first vote on 2 July 2020. The Act for amendment and supplement of the Law on Patents and Registration of Useful Models (prom., SG No. ...)??...................................................................... The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1, para. 2 the The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 3 (1) Any person who, under this law, has the right to act before the Patent Office may do so personally, through a lawyer or through an industrial property representative. (2) Person under para. 1 which is not established in the Republic of Bulgaria or in any other Member State of the European Union, in a State Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, or in the Swiss Confederation, is obliged to act before the Patent Office through a lawyer or through an industrial property representative. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. Article 3 is Rules for submission of documents and for correspondence Art. 4a. (1) All documents in the proceedings before the Patent Office shall be presented in Bulgarian or in translation into Bulgarian. (2) The correspondence relating to the proceedings before the Patent Office shall be kept at the address in the Republic of Bulgaria, at the e-mail address or via the portal for electronic services of the Patent Office, if possible. Upon modification of that address, the Party of Procedure shall notify the Patent Office within 7 days of the change. (3) Where the party to the proceedings before the Patent Office has not indicated an address in the Republic of Bulgaria, a notification shall be sent to the latter, providing it with at least a 7-day period from receipt for an address. Where no address is indicated, the rules for notification under the Administrative Procedure Code shall apply, unless otherwise provided for in this Law. (4) When the party initiating proceedings before the Patent Office does not remove the irregularities within the period under para. 3, same goes off. (5) The verification of the existence of the requirements under para. 2 in applications for patents and useful models shall be carried out in accordance with art. Art. 46, respectively 75 A.D. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 sentence first after the words the additional protection certificate (s) is added and its extension (s) and in a sentence second, the words (s) of the expert department (s) shall be replaced by the application expertise (s). 2. A new para is being created. 4. . (4) For the proceedings relating to the notification of the application of exemptions from protection by a certificate of additional protection within the meaning of Regulation (EC) No 469/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 6 May 2009 on the certificate of supplementary protection for medicinal products (OJ L 152/1 of 16 June 2009) , as amended by Regulation (EU) 2019/933 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2019 amending Regulation (EC) No 469/2009 on the certificate of supplementary protection of medicinal products (OB, L 153/1 of 11 June 2019), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EC) No 469/2009', and for publication of that notification in the Official Bulletin of the Patent Office, fees shall be paid under the tariff under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 3. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 5 and in it the word "Malta" is replaced by "Malta."
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u21	Thank you. Colleagues, speeches? I can't see. I will put to the vote the following texts: the text of the importer on the name of the Law, as well as the proposed version of the texts of paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 4. They voted 108 MPs: for 81, against none, abstention 27. The proposed texts have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u22	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5: .................................................................................. Article 5a is amended as follows: "State Registers" Art. 5a. (1) The Patent Office shall maintain the State Register of Patents, the State Register of Useful Models and the State Register of Supplementary Protection Certificates. (2) The State Register of Patents shall contain: 1. patent number; 2. International Patent Classification Index; 3. number and date of submission of the patent application; 4. details of the requested priority number, date and country of the initial request; 5. an official newsletter number and a publication date for the application; 6. an official newsletter number and a publication date for the patent issued; 7. number of the official newsletter and date of publication of an corrected patent; 8. data on split requests; 9. details of the international application under the Patent Cooperation Treaty, including the number and date of publication; 10. name and address of: (a) the applicant, the patent holder respectively; (b) the inventor, the inventors respectively; (c) the representative of industrial property or the lawyer, where authorised; 11. name of the invention; 12. submission or withdrawal of a licence declaration; 13. the annual patent fees paid to maintain the effect of the patent for each patent year, the date of payment and the year to which it relates; 14. legal status of the patent; 15. other circumstances subject to entry under this law. (3) The State Register of Useful Models shall contain: 1. number and date of registration of the useful model; 2. International Patent Classification Index; 3. number and date of submission of the application for registration of a useful model; 4. details of the requested priority number, date and country of the initial request; 5. number of the official newsletter and date of publication for registration of the useful model; 6. data for split requests; 7. details of the patent application for parallel or transformed applications; 8. details of the international application under the Patent Cooperation Treaty, including the number and date of publication; 9. name and address of: (a) the applicant, respectively the holder of the registration; (b) the inventor, the inventors respectively; (c) the representative of industrial property or the lawyer, where authorised; 10. name of the useful model; 11. continued period of validity of the registration; 12. legal status of registration; 13. other circumstances subject to entry under this law. (4) The State Register of Supplementary Protection Certificates shall contain: 1. the number and date of the application for an additional protection certificate; 2. the number and name of the patent to which it relates; 3. period of validity of the patent; 4. period of validity of the certificate; 5. type of certificate; 6. name of the product, date and authorisation number for its placing on the market; 7. the regulation under which the certificate is issued; 8. name and address of: (a) the applicant, the certificate holder respectively; (b) the representative of industrial property or the lawyer, where authorised; 9. the number of the official newsletter and the date of publication of the statement on the application for a certificate; 10. number of the official newsletter and date of publication of a communication for issued/extended certificate of additional protection; 11. number of the official newsletter and date of publication of a notice of termination of the certificate; 12. other circumstances subject to entry under this law. (5) In the registers under para. 1 shall be entered, respectively, for applications for protection under this law and the procedure for their conduct shall be laid down by an act of the President of the Patent Office. (6) The Registers under para. 1 are electronic and public and are available on the website of the Patent Office. (7) The Patent Office shall collect, organise, make public and store the data subject to entry, including any personal data necessary for the purposes of maintaining the registers, subject to the protection of personal data requirements. (8) Any person may request an official reference or extract from the contents of the registers. For the reference or extract a fee shall be paid according to the tariff under art. 5, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u23	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 5. They voted 99 MPs: 79, none, abstention 20. The proposed text has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u24	The Commission proposes to create a new § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5b the following amendments and additions are 1. In para. 1 the words "paper and "paper' are replaced by "paper' or "paper'. 2. In para. 9 after the words "The order for' is added ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7, para. 1, t. 4 after the word "animals', a comma shall be added and plants and animals produced from such methods shall be added. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6, which shall become § 7. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u25	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 6 with a text on the Commission Report, as well as the text of the importer for paragraphs 6 and 7, which shall become paragraphs 7 and 8 respectively. They voted 102 MPs: 80, none, abstention 22. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u26	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8, which shall become § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24 the 1. In para. 9 the word "Register" is replaced by "State Register." 2. Allinea 10 is canceled. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9, which shall become § 10. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10, which shall become § 11: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 31a The following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 2 the word "Malta" is replaced by "Malta" is replaced by "Malta" is replaced by "Malta" is replaced by "Malta" is replaced by 2. In para. 3 in the sentence first, the word "Most" is replaced by "Search" and in the sentence second, the word "Multiple" is replaced by "Search." 3. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: In the case of the applicant, the holder of the patent or licence holder of an exclusive licence respectively, the security shall have effect from the date of receipt of the notice of its imposition and, in the case of third parties, from the date of entry of the security in the State Register of Patents.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u27	Statements? I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 8, which shall become § 9; the text of the importer for § 9, which shall become § 10; and the version proposed by the Commission for § 10, which shall become 11. They voted 101 MPs: 81, none, abstention 20. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u28	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 12. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12, which shall become § 13. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13, which shall become § 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u29	Are there any speeches? I shall put to the vote the texts of the importer for paragraphs 11, 12 and 13, which shall become paragraphs 12, 13 and 14, respectively. They voted 86 MPs: 69, none, abstention 17. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u30	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 14, which shall become § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 41 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: (1) In the event of non-compliance with the requirements of art. 40 employees from the unit of art. 82, para. 1, t. 1 informs the applicant in writing within three months to divide the application as from the date of receipt of the notification. Where the applicant submits split requests within that period, the content of which does not exceed the content of the initial application, for the date of submission, the relevant priority of those applications shall be the date of submission, respectively the priority of the initial application, where the requirements laid down in Article are met. 34, para. 2. 2. In para. 2 sentence 2 second is amended as follows: "If, within three months of the applicant's request for division, split requests are submitted for the date of submission, a priority of those applications shall be considered as the date of submission, the priority of the initial application, where the requirements of art. 34, para. 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15, which shall become § 16. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 16, which shall become § 17: Seventeen. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 46c the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) the text before t. 1 is amended as follows: s (1) A publication on the patent application shall be made in the Official Bulletin of the Patent Office immediately after the expiry of 18 months from the date of submission, respectively, of the priority of the initial application, except where: (b) c. 2 the word "Malta" is replaced by "Malta" is replaced by "Malta" is replaced by "Malta" is replaced by "Malta" is replaced by 2. In para. 2 the drawings shall be commaed and added to it by entry into the State Register of Patents.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u31	Statements, coworkers? I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 14, which shall become § 15; the text of the importer for § 15, which shall become § 16; and the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 16, which shall become § 17. They voted 89 MPs: 70, none, abstention 19. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u32	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 17, which shall become § 18: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 47 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: 1 On any request which has not been withdrawn or on which no decision has been given under art. 46 and 46a, expert in the department of art. 82, para. 1, t. 1 examines the state of the technique under art. 8 and prepare a study report as well as a written opinion on the patentability of the invention in accordance with art. 6, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 7a in relation to art. 8, 9 and 10. 2. In para. 3 the word "inadequacies' is replaced by "inregularities'. 3. In para. 4, 5 and 6 the words "expertial department" shall be replaced by the item under art. 82, para. 1, t. 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's and 1's, The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 18, which shall become § 19: "Seriously, I'm Article 49 is amended as follows: "Repairing of time-frames" Art. 49. (1) Time limits missed due to special unforeseen circumstances may be reimbursed once at the request of the person who has missed them, to which a fee payment document applies, if the payment is by bank transfer. (2) The request shall be lodged within one month of the suspension of the reason for missing the period, but no later than three months from the expiry of the missed period. (3) The request shall state all the circumstances justifying it and shall provide all evidence of its merits. (4) The decision to recover the period shall be given by the President of the Patent Office or by a Vice-President authorised by him. (5) Where before or at the same time as the request under para. A complaint under Article 1 shall also be lodged. 55, para. 1, the request for a refund shall be left without consideration. (6) Restoration of a term under para. 1 is inadmissible for the time limits under para. 2 and under art. 48. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19, which shall become § 20.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u33	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the following texts: the version proposed by the Commission for § 17, which becomes § 18; the version proposed by the Commission for § 18, which becomes § 19; and the text of the importer for § 19, which becomes § 20. They voted 93 MPs: 74, none, abstention 19. The proposed texts have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u34	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 20, which shall become § 21: .................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 55 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1, in the text before t. 1 the words "the Opposition Division" shall be replaced by the text referred to in Article 2. 82, para. 1, t. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Authority') and in the Official Journal of the 2. In para. 2: (a) in the text before t. 1 words The Opposition Division shall be replaced by the Unit under art. 82, para. 1, t. the following point is inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009: (b) c. 1 the word (s) issued shall be deleted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21 which shall become § 22. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 22, which becomes § 23, and the word "inclusive' is replaced by "inclusive'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 23, which shall become § 24. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 24, which shall become § 25.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u35	Are there any speeches? I can't see. I put to the vote the following texts: the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 20, which becomes § 21; the text of the importer for § 21, which becomes § 22; the text of the importer for § 22, which becomes § 23, with the proposal for replacement in the text made by the Commission; and the texts of the importer for paragraphs 23 and 24, which become paragraphs 24 and 25 respectively. They voted 93 MPs: 69, against 3, abstention 21. The proposed texts have been adopted. Dear Mr. Kanev, I'm going to ask you to interrupt a little, because the Home Secretary is here. Let us listen to the information that he has to give us, and then we will continue to examine the next texts of the Bill. Dear Minister, please give us the information that was requested by the MPs today. [[GERB's line.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u36	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Operational information on an organised criminal group dealing with drug possession and distribution, illegal banking activity, racketeering, extortion and other force actions against debtors, carrying out property and financial fraud has been received in DGBOP. Data are also available that persons are engaged in human trafficking activities. In relation to the above information, after a Report in the Specialized Prosecutor's Office, pre-trial proceedings have been initiated on the description of the Directorate-General for the Interior Ministry, and a prosecutorial number on the description of the Special Prosecutor's Office. After carrying out numerous operational and search activities that expand the data initially received, it has been found that the organised criminal group is larger and has diverse criminal activity. It has been found that a clear leadership function in the group has two persons, one of whom is considered to be a brain, and at one level with it is the second, responsible for the force actions and finding the interests of the organized criminal group. It has been found that persons are engaged in an unregulated banking activity, which is also the basis of follow-up actions, by forcing, force actions, property and financial fraud. A third party directly subordinate to the leaders of the group responsible for the distribution of narcotics on the territory of the capital was also found, and was also found to be involved in acts of force. As a result of the operational and search activities carried out against the persons initially identified, an analysis has been carried out and the entire composition and structure of the organised criminal group has been established. On 5 October 2020, a specialized police operation was carried out under the supervision of the Special Prosecutor's Office in the case of joint participation of forces of DGBOP and forces of the General Directorate of Gendarmerie and SOBT and specialized police forces of the SDVR. In the course of the operation, pre-planned investigative actions were carried out against 16 persons, 28 addresses and 10 motor vehicles. In addition, procedural and investigative actions have been carried out under urgency in relation to another 10 addresses and motor vehicles. Cash was found in the amount of about 18 thousand. £600.; one number of gas pistols without the necessary documents; narcotics; police bats, police lamp; bats; multiple documents related to real estate such as notary acts, sketches and others; multiple computers; electronic media and mobile devices used by persons. A total of 19 persons were detained during the course of the operation. 30 persons have been questioned as witnesses. Nine of them were questioned in front of a judge. Indictment has been brought against five persons who have also been taken into custody. Team No. 9 according to the pre-designed plan for the operation is designated as an address located in the district of Levski, block 7 for the detention of a criminal person. The team was held by three staff of DGBOP, a team of the Department of Specialized Police and officers of the Department of Gendarmerie. A briefing of all teams was held on the morning of 5 October 2020 and information was provided to them on the addresses, persons for detention and the necessary documentation for the conduct of the investigative procedure. Team 9 staff found out the exact address this morning during the briefing, which is why they entered the data into the navigation system of a service car. On arrival on site, they secured the perimeter. According to the team staff, correct data has been entered. However, it was subsequently found that, instead of in Block 7, the team arrived at an address in Block 4 in the neighborhood of Levski, which was subsequently established. Currently, a disciplinary check has been ordered by the Director of the Directorate General for Organized Crime (CSD) to establish all the circumstances and data that led to the intrusion of the above address. Thank you. [[The Minister comes out of plenary.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u37	Thank you, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u38	Mr. Secretary, hold on.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u39	No, he doesn't have to wait for the Minister. This was the information that was requested and given. [[National Representative Ivan Valentinov Ivanov wants the floor.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u40	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u41	The way you're holding it well. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u42	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm doing this procedure in the manner of conduct, because here we didn't expect to hear the criminal report we've heard several times on the media. Apparently, an organized crime group has been smashed. The question was to hear here, from this tribune, is this already the new style of work of the Ministry of Interior to work with damaged GPSs, provided that they have exactly and clearly scheduled procedures for detention and such, as the minister said, with instructions this morning, not to say what the instructions are further...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u43	In the manner of conduct, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u44	We expected you to make a remark to the Minister to explain from now on...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u45	No, I couldn't do it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u46	Yes, you could have! You are President of the National Assembly at the moment and you can make a remark to explain whether the detention groups have already come in, calling the people junk...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u47	What do you have for me?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u48	Yes, Mr. Chairman, you should have asked the Minister to explain whether this is normal...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u49	Okay, I get it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u50	...to call people trash when they're being held?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u51	I get it, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u52	I wonder if that's how you get into homes without an excuse...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u53	Do you have any more notes for me?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u54	...yes, it's to you because you've allowed us here from this tribune to listen to the Minister's criminal record. It's not the Minister's job. His job was to come here to explain.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u55	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u56	We're gonna get him into control anyway, but it was the right thing to do...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u57	Okay. That was the note to me. Thank you. I will answer you: firstly, what you say to me is actually contrary to the Rules of Procedure. You requested information and information was given to you. Personally, I wouldn't allow...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u58	For the arrest, we wanted...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u59	I listened to you... I wouldn't allow myself to ask for information until the investigation is completed at all. Because more than the minister said, none of us could get. As far as this is concerned, should I require from him information or not a question of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Svilensky. My request to you is the same... let it be strictly to the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You are absolutely right that the Minister, when he comes here, must respond to what he has been invited for, and this is my procedure for the second time to invite the Minister. That is, to return and respond to this request, which was made, which Mrs. Karayancheva invited him. He came here, but didn't answer the question: who is guilty? On 5 October 2020, the event happened, today we are October 15th 10 days.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u61	Same question, Mr. Svilensky to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u62	Mr. Chairman, that's right, listen to me. Just, until he left with the wrong GPS on his car, put him back in plenary and answer who's responsible? It can't be 10 days after the accident, after beating up innocent citizens...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u63	All right! Anything else for me, Mr. Svilensky?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u64	...the Minister to come here and explain what happened 30 days before that. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u65	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u66	My procedure is for you to return the minister to come back and explain.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u67	There's no such procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u68	There's a procedure. [[Heckling]] Okay, formally, Mr. Chairman, I am making a second procedure... the Minister of Interior to come to the Chamber, to inform the MPs, and with this, the Bulgarian media and Bulgarian citizens, who is guilty to date for entering the home of innocent Bulgarian citizens. This is procedure, not...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u69	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u70	...a database of the Ministry of Interior.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u71	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. [[National Representative Manoil Manev wants the floor.]] I see you, Mr. Manev. I'll give you your word. Essentially what you're saying, you understand it's untenable. The Minister was here, the information he wanted to give to the MPs...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u72	Not the one he wants, the one he has to give. It's his duty!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u73	He can't because he hasn't finished his investigation. I'm explaining it, and I've already explained it. Mr. Manev, come in. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u74	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Chairman, I have a request for you. When colleagues are so excited to listen to ministers, let them at least be in the room. Because half of them were not in the room, and they called this minister, and then they jumped and started making... to come back to the minister, the second time we called him. One more thing, Mr. Chairman. I think you can at least make a remark from time to time to colleagues who speak from this tribune of untruths, let me be mild today. Untruths! There's an investigation going on right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u75	A check, not an investigation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u76	There will be checks, there will be a thousand things, but they come out here: said this one, that said, third... At least make a note of it. I know you can't stop them, but at least make a remark to these people because the destruction of the authority of the Ministry of Interior will knock on the door tomorrow. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u77	Thank you, Mr. Manev. You have your reasons, but every MP decides for himself. Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov. Is it the way it's supposed to be?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u78	Dear Mr. Chairman, I'm taking a procedure in the manner of conduct, even after the previous speech, I'm going to extend it a little bit. I will start with this statement: please remind the MPs that the information that was requested was not for the needs of the BSP, but for the needs of the Bulgarian society. Whether we were all in the Chamber or not, the question was to provide one information. I'm saying this to you so you don't speculate from here who was in the room and who wasn't. Look at your ranks and then watch out for ours. My second point, Mr. President, is that the same enthusiasm you have interrupted our speeches from here under the procedure, perhaps you should have used for the Minister's speech. Because we wanted to hear something on the ground, and you were so silently sitting upstairs, listening to a presist that we read a few times, and didn't remind the minister that we wanted other information, not the one that he tried, publicly exported, to repeat us here as a chewed-up meal. So, please, very much, another time when we have such procedures, keep in mind, Mr. Chairman, whether the invited respond essentially to the things we've called them for or come here to pull the numbers over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u79	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Just to remind you that, in fact, the Minister could not at this time give more information than the one that has been served. With the first part of your speech, I absolutely agree. This was information intended for the Bulgarian society. It's up to you whether you're in the room or not. [[The National Representative Cornelia Ninova wants the floor.]] Declaration please, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u80	Dear Bulgarian citizens, today we are submitting a request for the resignation of the President of the National Assembly Mrs. Tsveta Karayancheva. We have five arguments to do this. The first, ignorance of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which, under the Constitutional Court's decision, is a law. Secondly, putting the legislative power in subjection to the executive and turning the National Assembly into an addition to the will of a man - Prime Minister Borisov. Thirdly, gross violation of the rules of the legislative process and poor quality of the laws. Fourth, disregarding the principle of transparency and publicity in Parliament's work. Fifthly, words, assessments and behavior that undermine the authority of the institution. First of all, not knowing the Constitution and violating the Rules of Procedure of Parliament. With the first minute after her election as President of the National Assembly Mrs. Karayancheva demonstrated ignorance of the Constitution and the laws of the country, which subsequently persistently and systematically proves to all Bulgarian citizens no matter where she is. I will quote her statement on the first day here from the stand: We are politicians, we are people elected here to represent a certain area of the state. Under the Constitution, each Member of the National Assembly represents certain voters and certain areas. But the Constitution says that the MPs represent not only their constituents, but the entire people. I'll stop with just this example, but there's a lot of them. Second, the introduction of the legislative power into submission of the executive, which is a violation of the basic principle of statehood... the separation of authorities and control by the National Assembly of the Council of Ministers. Ms. Karayancheva systematically hinders the hearings and participations of Prime Minister Borisov in parliament by returning questions and questions to him without reason. Thus restricts the main right of Bulgarian citizens to hold Prime Minister Borisov accountable and under control. Dear Bulgarian citizens, MPs in particular to the MPs of the majority I address! Do you know when Prime Minister Borisov hasn't come to parliamentary control? It's been a year! Do you know such a practice in any European country? His last participation in response to my Schengen question was on 22 November 2019. He is not on change in the Cabinet, he is not on the adoption of the budget, the update of the budget, extremely important issues for the state. Despite our repeated requests to be called for hearings, Ms. Karayancheva cannot or does not want to secure his presence. The duty response is: employment. Very often, this employment is seen during the day in walking with the jeep, handing out the money to the Bulgarian taxpayers through the window of the jeep, outside any rules, or in a reality show with ministers, which has recently acquired grotesque dimensions. Probably, running away from folk love to enter beyond the forests of Tilly Bible, sitting on a stump and discussing an extremely serious issue such as the assessment of the Moody's Agency for Bulgaria. Third, it is a rude violation of the rules of the legislative process and the deterioration of the quality of the laws. President Tsveta Karajancheva systematically impedes the course of the legislative process in the National Assembly by preventing or delaying important bills submitted by the opposition. Dear Members of the National Assembly, twenty-two laws of Coalition "BSP for Bulgaria" stand somewhere unattended, some of which were submitted in 2017! Two thousand and seventeenth! Three years of unspoken bill in this Chamber under normal terms, recorded in the Rules, at least for committee, for two months. Two months, three years! I will mention some of them to see the Bulgarian citizens defend their interests against our parliamentary group and how they are neglecting the majority. Since 2017, there has been a bill for supplementing the Penal Code, the Youth Act, the Law for settling citizens' rights with multi-annual housing-saving deposits. As of 2018 The Law on Protection from Domestic Violence is the Law on Change in the Penal Code; the Law on Property and Use of Agricultural Land; the Law on Physical Education and Sport. Since 2019, the Law on Countering Corruption among senior public officials and the Old People's Bill has been unspoken and voted. Three years! At the same time, however, drafts submitted 24 hours ago or because they are lobbying and some group is fast, or because because of incompetence and failure to listen to the opposition, the government has made mistakes in a newly adopted law and hasten to correct them. Regularly and MPs submit proposals between first and second readings that have nothing to do with the philosophy of the law. And even more regularly, the transitional and final provisions of a law change radically different laws. I'll give you an example from today's program. Today you allow yourself in the Law on Patents and Registration of Useful Models to amend the Law on Measures and Actions during a state of emergency. And not only that, but to do it with a retroactive date from 14 July 2020 to settle some issues regarding the absorption of euro money, which we will deal with further. In the transitional and final provisions of this law, you are changing a completely different law with a retroactive date and you call this a legislative process. Fourth, a violation of the principle of publicity and transparency in the work of the National Assembly by the President. The move of plenary sessions to a new hall was accompanied by a severe scandal on the occasion of the appointed place of journalists and their restrictions on free movement in the parliament building. This caused their sharp reaction, highlighted in a petition, and there is an international response because of the assessment of limiting freedom of speech. And until now Mrs. Karayancheva has found no way to solve this issue. What does all this lead to that I've set out? First, to the lowest authority of the National Assembly and distrust in the institution. Secondly, to the findings in the Report on the Monitoring and Rule of Law Mechanism in Bulgaria that freedom of speech is limited, that frequent change of legislation worsens its quality. Thirdly, until the fundamental principles of statehood are violated for the separation of authorities, for the rule of law, for the corruption enshrined in the laws. Fourth, Ms. Karayancheva brings much of the blame for the low trust in the National Assembly within the country and for undermining Bulgaria's prestige in Europe. I'm gonna go with our last argument. Words, assessments and behavior. The public shuddered at the insulting, arrogant and arrogant statement on the highways that, by not liking us, I quote: "Hoddy walk was!" The more inadequate reaction after this line was acceptable because it was Saturday and it was in front of GERB's party asset in Lom. No, it is not acceptable to insult the Bulgarian people, whose money you build these highways with, either on Saturdays or on Sundays or Mondays, and on the seven days of the week it is not acceptable to insult the Bulgarian people! And, of course, a conversation by Prime Minister Borisov, who will forever remain in Bulgarian folklore, but at the expense of the humiliation of the Bulgarian woman and the Bulgarian parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u81	Mrs. Ninova, may I remind you that the speaking time set out in the Rules is running out. Please graduate.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u82	Prime Minister Borisov identified Mrs Karayancheva in an unacceptable way. The only way to react was for you to resign immediately to show this cynical and vulgar person that the authority of the National Assembly and the dignity of a woman stood above him. Instead you climbed on your wall: I believe Boyko Borisov. You've suffered terrible self-destruction, but it's your own choice. Our choice is no longer to humiliate the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u83	Thank you. Mrs. Ninova, finish up.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u84	For the authority of the institution and for the dignity of the Bulgarian women........................................................................................... [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u85	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u86	Colleagues, we've reached § 25. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 25, which shall become § 26: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 64, para. 2 after the words a useful model shall be added to the European Patent Office or to the Single Patent Court an objection against the European patent on the basis of art. 99 or 105 of the Convention on the issue of European patents (European Patent Convention) of 5 October 1973, as amended and supplemented by the Act on the revision of art. 63 of the Convention of 17 December 1991 and by decisions of the Administrative Council of the European Patent Organisation of 21 December 1978, 13 December 1994, 20 October 1995, 5 December 1996 and 10 December 1998. (Rated by law............................................................................................... 15 of 8.0.2002) (prom., D.V., No. 71 of 10.09.2010) , hereinafter referred to as the "Convention'. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 26, which becomes § 27, and the word "The Head' is replaced by "The Name'. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 27, which shall become § 28: ....... 28........................................... 28 In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 72a The following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: (1) Applications for a European patent within the meaning of the Convention may be submitted to the Patent Office of the Republic of Bulgaria or to the European Patent Office in one of the languages under art. 14 of the Convention in compliance with the requirements of art. 25. Divided applications for a European patent, as well as international applications for which a regional phase in the European Patent Office is opened, shall be submitted directly to the European Patent Office. 2. They're creating an al. 4 and 5. (4) Where the application for a European patent has been withdrawn, the reference of the Republic of Bulgaria shall be deemed withdrawn in respect of the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria with all the resulting consequences. (5) Decision of the European Patent Office for the Restoration of the Rights of an applicant or holder of a European patent shall also take effect on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u87	Are there any speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 25, which shall become § 26; the text of the importer for § 26, which shall be § 27, with the proposal to replace the text made by the Commission and the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 27, which shall become § 28. They voted 113 MPs: 79, none against, 34 abstentions. The proposed texts have been adopted. Mrs. Daritkova, please come in. We'll continue after the declaration.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u88	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I have always argued that, just as we in the Constitution are representatives of all Bulgarian citizens, the authority of the National Assembly is a commitment of all MPs. I would therefore like to ask what right the President of BSP for Bulgaria is asking for Mrs. Ninova's resignation after in this term... [[Applause on the right.]] Excuse me, Mrs. Karayancheva. And the other resignation can now be requested by some of the secessive MPs. By what right does Mrs Karayancheva's resignation really want, because in this term under her leadership, the parliamentary group of BSP systematically undermines the authority of this National Assembly? What authority does this National Assembly have after three months of hiding and absent from parliament meetings? [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] What authority do you want to contribute to creating this National Assembly, since the opposition considers it unnecessary for parliamentary activity? [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] What authority do you want this Assembly to have when you are not currently participating in the meetings of the Conference of Presidents, after hiding on the corners of the National Assembly in the morning and coming here to register only so that you can read a declaration and secure your wage for the day? What authority do you want this Assembly to have when its Vice Presidents are not taking part in the work and are not leading the plenary sessions? I believe that this is indeed a demonstration of democracy. I've heard the statement that democracy has taken you very far. Obviously, for 30 years, you have not understood that democracy requires, apart from ruling, that there is a constructive, alternative opposition that is really not only physically present but also to give proposals and solutions. What did you suggest under art. 53, para. 3 this Wednesday in plenary? [[(Reply from BSP for Bulgaria]] What did you propose this month, the first Wednesday? Nothing! [[Applause from GERB and OP, lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u89	Mr. Svilensky, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u90	There wasn't a single proposal on the agenda. What did you offer the previous months? Nothing again. Why do you think you have the right to ask for a resignation? I believe that this is only in the context of your ambition to truly master power. The only thing you care about right now is your strong desire to take power, not to think about the Bulgarian citizens! You've come so far as to make a shadow government. Dear colleagues of the opposition, the democratic way to assess the opinion of the Bulgarian people and to demonstrate it within the framework of representative democracy is to hold regular parliamentary elections in which the Bulgarians can trust those who want to manage them. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] Any other statement of opinion by the Bulgarian citizens is rather a claim, without real reason, in no case corresponding to the principles of democracy. We stand firmly behind Ms. Karayancheva as Chairman of this National Assembly. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] We will disprove every one of your grounds for resignation. These are not arguments, this is again an attempt to divert the attention of the Bulgarian citizens and to divert the attention of the National Assembly, to take plenary time for discussions that will in no way improve the lives of the citizens and will in no way help to remove Bulgaria from the crisis. The use of parliament for close party interests is not an investment with a long-term dividend. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u91	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u92	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 28, which shall become § 29: ........................ 29...................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 72b The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the words "supplier' is added to the title. 2. In para. 2 words in three copies shall be deleted. 3. The creation of para. 4. . (4) Where a request for a European patent has been withdrawn or refused in a procedure before the European Patent Office, the same shall be deemed withdrawn, respectively refused in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 29, which shall become § 30: 30. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 72c the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In the title after the word "Patents', the title "European patents with unitary effect' is added. 2. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: . (1) A European patent, which identifies the Republic of Bulgaria, shall grant to the patent holder from the date of the communication on its issue in the European Patent Bulletin the rights under this Law if, within three months of that date or from the date of the entry into force of the decision on the refusal or revocation of the single action of the European patent, when the single action is requested under Regulation (EU) No 1257/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2012 on the implementation of enhanced cooperation in the area of the creation of unitary patent protection (OJ L 361/1 of 31 December 2012), a request for recognition of the European patent, accompanied by a translation of the description and claims in Bulgarian language, and a publication fee shall be paid. 3. In para. 2 words must be replaced by the words shall be replaced by the words shall be replaced by the words the words shall be replaced by the words the words shall be replaced by the words the words shall be replaced by the words the words shall be replaced by the words shall be necessary. 4. In para. 3 the words......................................................................................................... 1 shall contain... issue of the patent........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 5. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: (4) The Patent Office shall issue a certificate of action of a European patent in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, make a message in the Official Bulletin of the Patent Office for the translation received and publish the translation of the European patent into Bulgarian language in the Register of European Patents under art. 72i. 6. In para. 5 words................................................................................. The second paragraph is replaced by the following: 7. Alinea 6 is amended as follows: Where a translation is found not to be attached to the request and/or the publication fee is not paid, the holder of the European patent shall be informed thereof and shall be given the opportunity to remedy the irregularities until the expiry of the period under para. 1 or within three days of receipt of the notification where it has been received after the period under para. 1. If the holder does not remove the identified irregularities within the specified period, state expert on art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 2 decides to refuse recognition of the operation of the European patent in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. 8. They're creating an al. 7 and 8: . (7) When it is established that the requirements of para. 2 and 3, the holder of the European patent shall be informed thereof and shall be given the opportunity to remedy irregularities within one month of receipt of the notification. If the holder does not remove the identified irregularities within the specified period, state expert on art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 2 decides to refuse recognition of the operation of the European patent in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. (8) Where it is established that a request for action in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria has been submitted for a European patent, a request for unitary action before the European Patent Office, the proceedings for the request before the Patent Office shall be suspended until the entry into force of the decision on the request for unitary action. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 30, which shall become § 31, in the text prior to that. 1 after the word "supplies" shall be added in para. 3 the words "the same' shall be replaced by "the same' and "the same' shall be replaced by "the same'. 4 the words "the same' shall be replaced by "the same' or "the same'.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u93	Statements? I put to the vote the following texts: the version proposed by the Commission for § 28, which becomes § 29; the version proposed by the Commission for § 29, which becomes § 30 and the text of the importer for § 30, which becomes 31, with the proposed amendments by the Commission in the text of § 30. They voted 105 MPs: 87, none, abstention 18. The proposed texts have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u94	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 31, which shall become § 32: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 72 and the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In the title after the words the patents of the Member States shall be added with effect on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. 2. So far, text becomes para. 1 and in it after the words the applications for European patents shall be a comma and shall be added for which the conditions under art. 72b, para. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Authority') and in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the 3. They're creating an al. 2 and 3: (2) The Patent Office shall maintain the State Register of European Patents with effect on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, which shall contain the following data: 1. number of the European patent; 2. International Patent Classification Index; 3. number and date of submission of the patent application; 4. details of the requested priority number, date and country of the initial request; 5. an official newsletter number and a publication date for the application; 6. an official newsletter number and a publication date for the patent issued; 7. number of the official newsletter and date of publication of an corrected patent; 8. data on split requests; 9. details of the international application under the Patent Cooperation Treaty, including the number and date of publication; 10. name and address of: (a) the applicant, the patent holder respectively; (b) the inventor, the inventors respectively; (c) the representative of industrial property or the lawyer, where authorised; 11. name of the invention; 12. submission/withdrawal of a licence declaration; 13. the annual patent fees paid to maintain the effect of the patent for each patent year, the date of payment and the year to which it relates; 14. legal status of the patent; 15. other circumstances subject to entry under this law. (3) Changes in the data of the proprietor of a European patent entered in the Register of European patents made during the period of objections or during the proceedings against a European patent issued shall be entered in the register under para. 1 after the submission of a request to which a copy of the communication for the entry issued by the European Patent Office has been attached. Under § 32, there is a proposal from the MP Daniela Saveklieva. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 32, which shall become § 33: ................................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 72k the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In para. 1 the words "Council Regulation 1768/92/EEC and Regulation 1610/96/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council' are replaced by "Regulation (EC) No 469/2009 and Regulation (EC) No 1610/96 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 1996 establishing a certificate of additional protection for plant protection products (OB, L 198/30 of 8 August 1996) '. 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The application for a certificate of additional protection or extension of a certificate of additional protection shall be submitted to the Patent Office. The submission of the application, issue, maintenance of the certificate and publications shall be subject to fees fixed by the tariff under art. 5, para. 1. For the maintenance of the certificate for each year, an annual fee shall be due and fees for the entire duration of the certificate shall be paid at once in the last year of the operation of the basic patent. Where the decision to issue a certificate has been received in the last two months of the validity of the basic patent or after its expiry, the fees shall be due within two months of the date of receipt of the decision. Upon expiry of the payment period, fees may be paid within an additional period of two months. 3. In para. 3 after the words 4. In para. 4 words - termination of the effect of the patent under art. 26, para. 1, 2 and 4s and the words "the fees for maintaining the effect of the patent under art. The words "c' shall be deleted and the words "c' shall be deleted. 55, para. Art. 1, art. 56, para. Art. 1 and 4 and art. 57 "Secretary" is replaced by "Secretary." 55, para. 1, t. 1 and 2 and para. 2, p. Art. 1 and Art. 1 56 " 59 ". 5. The creation of para. 5. s (5) Where a decision to declare full invalidity of the basic patent is in force, the Patent Office may formally declare invalidity of the certificate of additional protection on the grounds of art. 15, para. Point 1 (c) of the relevant regulations under para. 1. The terms and conditions for the official declaration of invalidity of the certificate of additional protection shall be determined by the ordinance under art. 55, para. 3. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 33, which shall become § 34: ................. Article 6 is inserted in Chapter 6. 72l: "Exhibitions from the protection it provides Additional protection certificate Art. 72l. (1) The certificate referred to in art. 72k for medicinal products does not provide protection against actions for which the certificate holder's consent is required under the terms and conditions laid down in Regulation (EC) No 469/2009. (2) The notification referred to in Annex Ia of Regulation (EU) 2019/933 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2019 amending Regulation (EC) No 469/2009 on the certificate of supplementary protection of medicinal products (OJ L 153/1 of 11 June 2019) is submitted to the Patent Office. At the same time as the submission of the notification, the fees under art. 5, para. 4. (3) Where it is established that the notification does not contain the information as set out in the Annex under para. 2 and/or due fees have not been paid, the Patent Office shall inform the applicant of the need to remedy those irregularities within 7 days of notification. (4) If irregularities are not removed within the period under para. 3 The proceedings of the notification shall be terminated by a reasoned decision of the President of the Patent Office or of a Vice-President authorised by him. (5) Within 7 days of the submission of the notification under para. 2 or from the removal of irregularities thereof, the President of the Patent Office or the Vice-President authorised by him shall issue a decision of conformity and a publication shall be made in the Official Bulletin of the Patent Office.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u95	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the version of § 31, which becomes § 32; the version of § 32, which becomes § 33; the version of § 33, which becomes § 34 of the Commission Report. Voted 103 MPs: 90, none, abstention 13. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u96	The following are several paragraphs supported by the Commission. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 34, which shall become § 35. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 35, which shall become § 36. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 36, which shall become § 37. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 37, which shall become § 38. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 38, which shall become § 39: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 in the text before t. 1 the words "expertial department" shall be replaced by the item under art. 82, para. 1, t. 1.................................................................................. 2. In para. 2 the word "non-compliances' shall be replaced by "unregularities'. 3. In para. 3 the word "inadequacies' is replaced by "inregularities'. 4. In para. 4 the word "non-compliances" shall be replaced by "non-regularities." 5. Paragraph 5 is amended as follows: s (5) Where no irregularities or irregularities are detected as a result of the verification, the applicant shall be informed within one month of receipt of the communication to pay a registration fee, to issue a registration certificate, to publish in the State Register the useful models of the description, drawings, claims and referee, and to publish in the Official Bulletin of the Patent Office a registration notice together with the independent claims on a registered useful model. Upon expiry of that period, fees may be paid within an additional one-month period, due in double terms. If the fees are not paid within this period, the application shall be deemed withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u97	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for paragraphs 34, 35, 36 and 37, which shall become paragraphs 35, 36, 37 and 38 respectively, supported by the Commission and the version of § 38, which shall become § 39 of the Commission Report. They voted 96 MPs: 81, none, abstention 15. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u98	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 39, which shall become § 40: ..... 40................... 40...................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 75g the words "In three months' are replaced by "Same time with', and the word "Malk' is replaced by "Malk' is replaced by "Malk'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 40, which shall become § 41, i.e. 1 The words................................................................................. The date of entry into force of this Agreement shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 41, which shall become § 42. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 42, which shall become § 43: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 82, para. 1, in the text before t. 1 the words.................................................................................................. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 43 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u99	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the version of § 39, which becomes § 40 of the Commission Report; the text of the importer for § 40, which becomes § 41 with the corresponding deletion of the words which Mr. Kanev read; the text of the importer for § 41, which becomes § 42; the version of § 42, which becomes § 43 of the Commission Report, and the rejection of § 43. Vote 87 MPs: 76, none, abstention 11. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u100	Colleagues, § 44 is coming up, which is 20 typing pages. I'll ask my replacement, Adlenn Shevked, it's time for the young to work, and after that, Daniela Saveklieva will continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u101	Here you go, Mrs. Shevked.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u102	Proposal of the National Representative Rumen Gechev, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 44: ..................................................... Chapter 8 is created with a new article. Art. 84, Art. 85.................................................................................. ..Chapter Eight....b.. Industrial property representatives General Art. 84. (1) A representative of industrial property, hereinafter referred to as the supplier, is a natural person who meets the requirements of this law, has acquired or is recognised as a professional qualification as a representative and is entered in the Register of Industrial Property Representatives. (2) A representative shall also be a person entitled to exercise the profession in another Member State of the European Union, in a State of the European Economic Area Agreement, or in the Swiss Confederation, as well as a person entered in the Register of Representatives of the European Patent Office, which shall provide one-off or temporary services to a representative in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. (3) The profession of representative may be exercised independently or jointly with other representatives in accordance with this law. (4) A representative may act before the Patent Office only in respect of industrial property sites for which he has acquired the right to pursue the profession, including when acting on behalf of a company or association. Requirements for the exercise of the profession representative Art. 85. (1) The right to exercise the profession of representative shall have any natural person who: 1. is a Bulgarian citizen or citizen of another Member State of the European Union, of a State of a Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, or of the Swiss Confederation; 2. holds a diploma for completed higher education with an educational-qualification degree of Master, issued by accredited Bulgarian higher school or recognized under Bulgarian law a diploma for completed higher education with an educational-qualification degree of Master, acquired at a foreign university. The representatives in the field of patents and utility models must have acquired the required educational degree in any of the professional fields of higher education from the fields of natural sciences, mathematics and informatics......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 3. has successfully passed an examination for the acquisition of professional qualifications for a representative in the field of patents, utility models and/or in the fields of trade marks, industrial designs and geographical indications or is recognised to it; 4. is entered in the Register of Industrial Property Representatives. (2) No representative may be a person who: 1. is a civil servant; 2. working on an employment relationship, except as a teacher at a university; 3. has been convicted of a deliberate criminal offence of a general nature and has not been rehabilitated; 4. is placed under suspension. Exam for obtaining a professional qualification Art. 86. (1) Professional qualification as a representative shall be acquired by passing an examination before a committee appointed by order of the President of the Patent Office. The Commission shall consist of at least 5 members and shall include at least one habilitated representative of the academic community. (2) The applicant shall be admitted to an examination if he has submitted a written request to the President of the Patent Office and shall meet the requirements of art. 85, para. 1, t. 1 and 2. (3) The request shall contain the name and address of the applicant, the details of the diploma for completed education number and university, and the industrial property sites for which the applicant wishes to acquire professional qualifications. When the requirements of art. 85, para. 1, t. 1 and 2 shall be certified by a document issued by an authority or institution of another State, a copy of that document shall be attached to the request. (4) The President of the Patent Office shall issue a decision for admission to an examination or reasoned refusal. (5) Refusal under para. 4 may be appealed under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. The appeal shall not stop the examination of the other candidates. (6) The Exam under para. 1 is written and oral, carried out in Bulgarian and consists in checking the level of theoretical and practical knowledge of applicants in the field of patents, useful models and/or in the fields of trade marks, industrial designs and geographical indications with regard to Bulgarian and European legislation and practice, as well as international treaties to which the Republic of Bulgaria is a country. (7) The examination shall be carried out at least once a year. (8) A certificate of professional qualification for the profession of representative shall be issued to each candidate who has passed the test. (9) The order for conducting the examination and the method of evaluation shall be determined by an act of the President of the Patent Office and shall be published on the website of the Office. Training for the acquisition of professional qualifications Art. 87. (1) The Patent Office shall organise training to acquire professional qualifications for a representative at least once a year. A certificate shall be issued on those who have passed the training. (2) The minimum requirements for the scope of training shall be determined by an act of the President of the Patent Office and shall be announced on the website of the Office. Recognition of professional qualifications Art. 88. (1) Persons who have acquired the right to exercise the profession of representative in another Member State of the European Union, or in a Member State of the European Economic Area Agreement, or in the Swiss Confederation, as well as nationals of a Member State of the Union entered in the Register of Representatives of the European Patent Office, which are established in the Republic of Bulgaria and wish to exercise the profession permanently, shall submit a request for recognition of their professional qualifications to the President of the Patent Office. (2) The request under para. 1 shall be submitted in Bulgarian and shall contain: 1. the names of the person, date and place of birth, nationality; 2. permanent address, telephone, e-mail address and correspondence address, where different from the permanent address; 3. the industrial property sites for which the person has acquired professional qualifications and for which he wants to be recognised in the Republic of Bulgaria; 4. the country in which the person has acquired professional qualifications; 5. The degree according to the diploma. (3) To the request under para. 1 the person shall apply the following documents: 1. diploma for completed education; 2. a document certifying the right to exercise the profession in the State in which the profession is acquired where the profession is regulated in that State; 3. evidence confirming the exercise of the profession for at least one year in the last 10 years (4) The documents under para. 3 are presented in translation in Bulgarian. (5) Within 7 days of receipt of the request under para. 1 and of the documents annexed thereto, the Patent Office shall notify the person of their receipt and, where necessary, provide him with a one-month period for the removal of incompleteness or irregularities in it or in the attached documents. (6) Within 7 days of the expiry of the relevant period under para. 5 The President of the Patent Office or the Vice-President authorised by him shall issue a reasoned decision on the recognition of professional qualifications, the refusal or termination of the procedure for the recognition of professional qualifications. (7) The decisions under para. 6 may be appealed under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. (8) When establishing differences between the acquired qualification by the foreign representative and the qualification required by this law, the persons under para. 1 may choose between passing an adaptation or a test for recognition of competence. The conditions and procedures for conducting the adaptation and recognition test shall be laid down by an act of the President of the Patent Office and shall be published on the website of the Office. (9) The internship under para. 8 shall be carried out for a period of 3 years in the case of a representative entered in the Register of Industrial Property Representatives. (10) The provisions of the Law on the Recognition of Professional Qualifications shall apply to the issues outstanding in this Article. Company of Industrial Property Representatives Art. 89. (1) Representatives may establish a company of representatives of industrial property under the order of the Commercial Law. The company is registered in the Register of Companies and Associations of Industrial Property Representatives. (2) Companies of Industrial Property Representatives established in another Member State of the European Union, in a State Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, or in the Swiss Confederation, shall be entered in the register under para. 1 where the persons representing the company and acting permanently as representatives in the Republic of Bulgaria meet the requirements of art. 85. (3) Company under para. 1 whose capital is divided into shares shall not issue unavailable shares or bearer shares. (4) Company under para. 1 and the representatives involved in it may not represent customers who have conflicting interests. (5) For the performance of representation the client shall authorise a company under para. 1. Actions before the Patent Office shall be carried out by a representative designated by the company or by the client who exercises the profession on behalf of the company. (6) Any representative exercising the profession on behalf of the company shall be personally responsible for the damage caused to the customer. In these cases, the company is responsible jointly with the representative. (7) Recognition of the professional qualification of the foreign representatives who will exercise the profession on behalf of the company shall be carried out in accordance with art. 88. Association of Industrial Property Representatives Art. 90. (1) Representatives and companies of representatives of industrial property may unite their activities by means of an association agreement under the Law on Obligations and Contracts, insofar as the provisions of this Law do not provide otherwise. The contract shall also specify the boundaries of the merger. The association of industrial property representatives shall be registered in the Register of Companies and the Associations of Industrial Property Representatives. (2) The contract shall be concluded in writing and the association shall be entered into the Register of Companies and Industrial Property Associations at the request of the person representing it under the contract. The contract shall indicate a mandatory common address of the participants in the association, which shall also serve as an address for correspondence with the association. (3) The provisions of art. 89, para. 7. Register of Industrial Property Representatives and Register of Companies and Industrial Property Representatives Associations Art. 91. (1) The Patent Office shall maintain a Register of Industrial Property Representatives and a Register of Companies and Industrial Property Representatives' Associations. The registers are electronic and public and are available on the website of the Patent Office. (2) In the Register of Industrial Property Representatives shall be entered representatives under art. 85. (3) In the Register of Companies and Associations of Industrial Property Representatives shall be entered the companies and the association of the representatives under art. 89 and 90. (4) In the registers under para. 2 and 3 shall not be entered persons and companies which are registered in the registers of Bar Associations in the Republic of Bulgaria under the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Patent Office, except when they request entry and comply with the requirements of this Law. Specific rules in the case of entry into the registers Art. 92. (1) For entry in the register under art. Reg. 91, para. 2 a written request shall be submitted to the President of the Patent Office, containing the date on which the applicant has successfully passed the professional qualification test, as well as information necessary for carrying out the official inspection to comply with the requirements of art. 85, para. 1, t. 1 and 2 and para. 2, p. 3. The request shall be accompanied by a declaration of absence of the circumstances under art. 85, para. 2, p. 1, 2 and 4. (2) When the requirements of art. 85, para. 1, t. 1 and 2 and para. 2, p. 3 are subject to certification by a document issued by an authority or institution of another State, to the request shall be accompanied by a copy of: an identity document, a diploma for completed higher education with an educational-qualification degree, a Master's degree, a certificate of professional qualification acquired or another document proving competence for the exercise of the profession and a certificate of jurisdiction. (3) Upon entry into the register, the representative shall provide and signed by him an affidavit with the following content: I swear that I will perform my duties in good faith as an industrial property representative in accordance with the Constitution, the laws of the country and morals, I will defend with diligence and honesty the interests entrusted to me, I will not disclose the secrets of my trustees, and I will follow exactly all the norms arising from my professional duties. (4) The entry in the register under art. Reg. 91, para. 3 shall be carried out at the request of the legal representative of the company or association. The request shall contain the circumstances under art. 93, para. 2 and it shall be subject to a copy of the constituent act by which the company, respectively, has been established under the law of the State of origin. (5) The entries in the registers, except those under art. 93, para. 5 shall be carried out on the basis of a reasoned decision of the President of the Patent Office or of a Vice-President authorised by him, issued after verification of the circumstances to be entered. (6) Where the request does not comply with the relevant requirements, the submitter shall be notified in writing within 7 days of receipt of the request with instructions for the removal of irregularities and/or for the provision of additional information. (7) The applicant of the request shall remove irregularities and/or provide additional information within one month from the date of notification under para. 6. (8) In the event of non-compliance or failure to provide the requested additional information within the period under para. 7 and in the event of a non-compliance of the person, respectively of the persons of the company or association with the requirement to be representatives within the meaning of art. 84, para. 1 with the decision under para. 5 shall refuse entry in the register. (9) The decision may be appealed under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. (10) The registered representative and the registered company or association shall be issued with a certificate of entry in the register and with an identification card. Conditions to be entered in the registers Art. 93. (1) The Register of Industrial Property Representatives shall record the following circumstances: 1. the name of the representative; 2. the country in which the competence is acquired for foreign representatives; 3. the address at which the representative exercises his activity, telephone, e-mail address and correspondence address where he is different from the address of the exercise of the activity; 4. the specialty according to the diploma; 5. the objects of industrial property for which a professional qualification has been acquired or recognised in the Republic of Bulgaria; 6. the suspension and its renewal; 7. Departure from the register. (2) The Register of Companies and the Associations of Industrial Property Representatives shall record the following circumstances: 1. the name and legal form of the organization; 2. the country of origin; 3. the address at which the company or association exercises its activities, telephone, e-mail address and correspondence address where it is different from the address of the activity; 4. the names of the representatives of industrial property acting on behalf of the company or association; 5. the industrial property sites for which it has been acquired or is recognised professional qualification of the partners under point 5. 4; 6. the names of persons entitled to represent the company/affiliate in the country of origin for foreign associations; 7. Departure from the register. (3) Representative, company or association entered in the registers under para. 1 and 2 shall state in the Patent Office any change in circumstances subject to entry within 7 days of their entry. (4) All documents on the basis of which an entry under para. 1 and 2 shall be kept in the Patent Office and a separate file shall be drawn up of each representative and of each company or association of representatives. (5) Changes in the name and/or address of an entered representative for industrial property or of an entered company or association shall be made following a written request to the President of the Patent Office. Single or temporary provision of services by foreign representatives Art. 94. (1) Representatives, companies or associations of representatives engaged in the profession in another Member State of the European Union, in a Member State of the European Economic Area Agreement or in the Swiss Confederation may provide services once or temporarily in the Republic of Bulgaria if, within three days prior to the provision of the service, the President of the Patent Office, where they are: 1. acquire the right to exercise the profession of representative or are registered as companies/affiliates of industrial property representatives; 2. practised the profession for at least one year during the last ten years in full-time or with equivalent durations of part-time where the profession is not regulated in the country in which it is exercised. (2) Citizens of a Member State of the European Union, of a Member State of a Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, or of the Swiss Confederation who are entered in the Register of Industrial Property Representatives of the European Patent Office may provide services once or temporarily in the Republic of Bulgaria only on requests for action in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria for issued European patents. In this case, the person within three days of the provision of the service shall inform the President of the Patent Office of his request. (3) The notification under para. 1 and 2 shall contain respectively: 1. the three names, nationality and the name of the State in which the profession is exercised when they are natural persons; 2. the name of the company or association, the names of the persons representing it, the country under the legislation of which the company or association is established and where it is established; 3. address for correspondence in the Republic of Bulgaria or e-mail address; 4. the industrial property sites for which it has acquired competence in the country of origin; 5. the period of provision of services and industrial property sites for which the services will be provided. (4) The notification shall apply accordingly: 1. a document of nationality for natural persons or a reference from the relevant register of the country of origin of the company or association or from the Register of Industrial Property Representatives of the European Patent Office; 2. a document certifying the right to exercise the profession in the State in which the profession is acquired where the profession is regulated in that State; 3. where the profession is not regulated in the State in which it is exercised, evidence confirming the exercise of the profession for at least one year in the last ten years (5) The representative or representative of the company, respectively the association shall inform the President of the Patent Office of any change in the circumstances under para. 1 and 2 within 7 days of their arrival. (6) The notification and the documents attached to it shall be presented in a translation into Bulgarian language. (7) Representatives, companies or associations under para. 1 and 2 shall not be entered in the registers referred to in Article 1. Reg. 91, para. 1. They shall bear a list containing the name of the representative, the name of the company or association, and the persons representing it respectively. The list is electronic and public and is available on the website of the Patent Office. (8) The single or temporary nature of the provision of services in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria shall be determined by the President of the Patent Office for each particular case in view of the time, frequency, regularity and continuity of the provision of the services. (9) Representatives or companies/partnerships of representatives exercising the profession temporarily or once may provide services only for industrial property sites for which they have acquired competence. (10) The notification of temporary or single provision of services by foreign representatives shall be effective from the date of its submission. (11) The provisions of the Law on the activities for the provision of services and the Law on the recognition of professional qualifications shall apply to the issues outstanding in this Article. Suspension of the exercise of the profession of representative and discharge from the register Art. 95. (1) The representative shall be written off from the register under art. Reg. 91, para. 2: 1. at his request; 2. when it is established that it does not meet the requirements of art. 85; 3. in the event of death. (2) The company or association shall be written off from the register under art. Reg. 91, para. 3: 1. at his request, made by the person representing him; 2. upon termination of the company on the basis of a provision of the Commercial Law or on the basis of the registration legislation; 3. when the association is terminated on any of the grounds under art. 363 of the Law on Obligations and Contracts, or on grounds arising from the law on Registration; 4. when the members of the company or association become less than two. (3) In the cases under para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2, p. 1 the representative, respectively the company or association shall be written off within 7 days of receipt of the request. (4) In the cases under para. 1, t. 2 and para. 2, p. 2 the representative, representing the company or association respectively, shall inform the President of the Patent Office in writing within 7 days of the occurrence of the circumstances. In the event that the Patent Office finds the occurrence of these circumstances in its official capacity, it shall initiate a written-off procedure for the representative, the company or association on its own initiative, respectively, providing them with a 14-day period for an opinion. (5) In the cases under para. 1, t. 3 and para. 2, p. 3 The Patent Office shall write off the representative, company or association in service after consultation of the General Directorate of the Office of Civil Registration and Administration at the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works or after receipt of a letter of notice from the representing company or association to be submitted to the Patent Office within 7 days of the occurrence of the fact. (6) Departure from the register shall be carried out by a reasoned decision of the President of the Patent Office or by a Vice-President authorised by him, which shall be subject to appeal under the Administrative Procedure Code. Activity of representatives Art. 96. (1) The representative shall provide specialized assistance and services in the field of industrial property and shall represent Bulgarian and foreign natural and legal persons in the proceedings before the Patent Office, to foreign competent authorities and to international and European organisations. (2) The representative shall act on behalf of his client on the basis of a written power of attorney. (3) The representative shall have the right to delegate another representative with the rights granted to him only with the consent of the client. [[Reply from the National Representative Petar Kanev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u103	So far, Mrs. Shevked. Mr. Kanev wanted to take away my function, but I am still chairman and will give 30 minutes rest. We'll continue reading at 12:00. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u104	Dear colleagues, take your seats. We continue with the second reading of the Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u105	"Rights of access to a file" Art. 97. The representative shall have the right to access the file of the industrial property establishment for which he is authorised and shall have the right to obtain a copy of the documents of the file kept in the Patent Office in accordance with the terms and conditions laid down by an act of the President of the Patent Office. Certificate of documents Art. 98. In exercising his profession, the representative shall have the right to validate copies of documents which are provided to him in connection with or in connection with the protection of the rights on the premises of industrial property of his client, which have the power of official documents before the Patent Office. Salary Art. 99. The representative shall be entitled to remuneration for his work, which shall be determined by agreement between him and the client. Client account Art. 100. (1) The money provided by the client for spending by the representative may be deposited in a bank under a client account. The amounts of the client account are not part of the representative's property and are not subject to retention. (2) The client account shall transfer amounts for payment to: 1. expenses and state fees; 2. remuneration of third parties other than the representative. (3) The representative shall be obliged to provide his client with a written report on the funds spent. Obligations of representatives Art. 101. (1) In his activity, the representative shall: 1. to be guided by the rule of law and good manners; 2. to exercise the profession in good faith and not to undermine its prestige; 3. to act with regard to the order and the interest of the client; 4. notify the client in case of conflict of interest; 5. to keep secret the information he has learned in connection with the exercise of the profession; the obligation shall also apply in cases where the representative has suspended the exercise of the profession or when he is discharged from the register; 6. to maintain insurance "Professional responsibility." (2) The representative shall not be entitled to: 1. use methods to attract customers incompatible with professional ethics; 2. to take a job for the performance of which he knows that he does not possess the necessary knowledge and training; 3. take representation if the same object has represented or represented another person whose interests conflict with the interests of the person requesting representation. Refusal of representation Art. 102. (1) The representative may withdraw from office if the trust between him and the client is impaired if the client does not cooperate or pay an agreed remuneration or there is another valid reason. (2) The representation shall be deemed terminated from the date of the written notification to the client. (3) As regards the Patent Office, the representation shall be deemed to be terminated from the date on which the written notification has been made to the Patent Office. (4) Within one month from the date of termination of the representation under para. 2 the representative shall be obliged to: 1. to inform the client of received correspondence on the industrial property site on which representation took place; 2. to return to the client or to a person designated by him the originals of all documents which have been entrusted to him; the representative shall have the right to keep only copies of these documents to himself. Obligations after termination Art. 103. The representative shall be obliged within one month of the date of discharge from the register: 1. notify all its clients who authorised it to represent them; 2. to transmit to the client or to a designated person the originals of all documents which have been entrusted to him; 3. to take all necessary steps to safeguard the interests of the client. Rights and obligations of companies/groups of representatives and lawyers Art. 104. The provisions of art. 96-103 shall also apply to companies or associations of industrial property representatives and lawyers operating under that law. Property liability of persons engaged in representation activities and their companies or associations Art. 105. (1) Representatives and lawyers engaged in an industrial property office in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and their companies or associations shall be liable for the damage caused by a guilty failure to comply with their professional obligations. (2) The responsibility under para. 1 shall be carried out in accordance with the general claim order. Insurance "Professional liability" Art. 106. (1) Representatives and lawyers engaged in an industrial property representation activity, including as members of a company or association, shall have an obligation to have an insurance claim for the damage which may result from unlawful actions or omissions in or on the occasion of the performance of their duties. (2) The minimum insurance amount shall be BGN 20 000. for one insurance event and 60,000 leva. for all insurance events for the term of the insurance under para. 1. (3) Where the representative is also engaged in a legal or other compatible activity, the insurance shall also be allowed to include risks to cover the liability of the damage which may result from a guilty failure to fulfil his obligations under this law. (4) Representatives, companies or associations shall be recognised as insurance "Professional liability" issued in another Member State of the European Union, or in a State Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, or in the Swiss Confederation, where the insurance has an effect covering its activities in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. (5) The insurance under para. 1 shall be concluded for a period of one year and shall cover the liability of insured persons under written claims made during the life of the insurance contract for: 1. unlawful acts or omissions of insured persons in the event of or in the event of the performance of their obligations carried out within the term of the contract; 2. unlawful acts or omissions of insured persons in the event of or in the event of the performance of their obligations carried out during the period from the retroactive date until the conclusion of the contract; in this case, the insured person shall not be liable for any damage that occurred prior to the conclusion of the insurance contract. (6) Retroactive date within the meaning of para. 5, t. 2 is the date of the start of an industrial property representation activity by the persons under para. 1. For persons who have been active for more than 5 years, the retroactive date shall be 5 years before the conclusion of the insurance contract. (7) The insurance contract shall be concluded by the persons under para. 1 within 15 days of the beginning of its professional activity, and for the period from the date of the beginning of its professional activity a retroactive coverage under art. 355 of the Insurance Code, including for damages occurring during the retroactive period, without prejudice to the operation of art. 355, para. 2 and 3 of the Insurance Code. (8) The insurance shall be renewed annually without interruption for the time during which the persons under para. 1 exercise representation on industrial property. (9) Upon termination of the activity, the persons referred to in para. 1 are obliged to conclude an additional insurance covering a period of 5 years following the cessation of the activity in case the harmful effect has taken place after the retroactive date under para. 6. (10) The provisions of the Insurance Code shall apply to the issues outstanding in this Article. Customer rights Art. 107. (1) The client and the persons referred to in art. 106, para. 1 a separate insurance may be contracted to ensure the responsibilities of the representative for a specific establishment. (2) The client may request in writing from the persons under art. 106, para. 1 evidence of a valid insurance "Professional liability." (3) The persons referred to in art. 106, para. 1 are obliged to provide the evidence under para. 2 within 7 days of the date of receipt of the written request. (4) The client may suspend all due payments to the persons under art. 106, para. 1 where it finds that they do not hold valid insurance or if they do not provide evidence of such insurance within the period under para. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u106	Thank you. Hey, guys, any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 44. Vote 82 MPs: for 73, no objection, abstention 9. The proposed text has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u107	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 45: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The current article. Article 84 is replaced by the following: Under § 46, there is a proposal of the MP Daniela Saveklieva. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 46: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. Paragraph 1 of the additional provision establishes the following. 9 and 10: Nine. A professional qualification for an industrial property representative with the entry in the register under art. Reg. 91, para. 2. 10. The application period is the internship acquired by an industrial property representative registered in the Republic of Bulgaria and is certified by the training representative.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u108	Thank you. Are there any speeches, colleagues? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for § 45 and 46. 90 MPs voted: 82, none, abstention 8. The proposals have been accepted. Mrs. Saveklieva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First, I would like to make an editorial amendment in order to comply with the requirements of the Law on Legislative Acts. A new § 47 shall be established before the Department of Transport and Final Provisions, which systematically reflects paragraphs 49, 50 and 51 of the Commission Report: ss ss s s s s s In the other texts of the Law: 1. The words "malbata" and "malmata" are replaced by "malm" and "malm" respectively. 2. The words "expertial department" shall be replaced by the item under art. 82, para. 1, t. 1.................................................................................. 3. The words "inadequacy" and "non-compliances" shall be replaced by "instructions" and the word "instructions" shall be replaced by "instructions."
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u110	Are there any speeches? I will put to the vote the proposal made by Mrs. Saveklieva. The text has just been presented to you. They voted 99 MPs: 92, none, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. I will now put to the vote the creation of a new § 47 with the text of the paragraph under Mrs. Saveklieva's newly adopted proposal. Vote 95 MPs: 86, no objection, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u111	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. Proposed by the MP Daniela Savekliva. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 48: ............... 48............................................................... (1) This law shall apply to applications and requests for which no decision has been entered into force until its entry into force. (2) The patent applications for inventions under which no final decision has been given until the entry into force of this law and the examination and expertise fee and publication fee for the application have not been paid shall be notified to the applicant, giving him the possibility to pay them within three months. If the fees are not paid within this period, the application shall be deemed withdrawn and not published. (3) This law shall not apply to the periods beginning before its entry into force. Under § 47, there is a proposal from the MP Daniela Saveklieva. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 47, which shall become § 49: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss (1) Representatives entered in the register under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 of the Ordinance on Industrial Property Representatives ( SG No. 64, 2017) , retain their registration and the right to exercise the profession. (2) The persons who have passed the test successfully before the entry into force of this Law by the order of the ordinance under para. 1 shall be entered in the register of industrial property representatives without a new examination. (3) The associations of representatives of industrial property, entered in the register of the ordinance under para. 1 shall retain their registration and the right to exercise activity if, within two months of the entry into force of this law, the person representing the association submits to the Patent Office a written request stating the circumstances under art. 93, para. 2, p. 1 six, accompanied by a copy of an up-to-date partnership agreement. Where a request is made within that period, the association shall continue to pursue its activities in the form of a company under art. 89, the register shall include the change and the company shall retain the registration number of the association, as well as all the powers resulting from the authorisation of the association, provided that a single identification code is presented and the circumstances under art. 93, para. 2, p. 6. Where no written request is submitted within that time limit, the association shall be written off by service from the register.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u112	Thank you. Statements? I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision; the Commission's proposal to create a new § 48 with a text on the Commission Report, as well as the version proposed by the Commission, for the wording of § 47, which shall become § 49. Vote 97 MPs: 88, no objection, abstention 9. The texts put to the vote have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u113	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 48, which shall become § 49: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the other texts of the law, the words "the request" and "the request" respectively are replaced by "the request," "the request" and "the request." The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 49, which becomes § 50, and the words everywhere in the law are replaced by the other texts of the law. According to § 50, there is a proposal from the MP Daniela Savekliva. The Commission supports the proposal in principle and it is reflected in its systematic place in a new § 6. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 50, which shall become § 51: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the other texts of the law, the words "inadequacies" and "indiscretions" shall be replaced by "inregularities" and the word "inadequacies" shall be replaced by "inregularities".
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u114	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u115	Mr President, and here again I would like to make an editorial amendment in relation to what I have just adopted, which I have reported, namely paragraphs 49, 50 and 51 of the Commission Report, to be rejected, as they are already reflected in a new § 47.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u116	Statements, coworkers? There are no speeches. Let's move on to the vote. I will put to the vote Mrs. Saveklieva's proposal for the removal of paragraphs 49, 50 and 51 of the Commission Report, as they are systematically reflected in § 47. They voted 101 MPs: 92, none, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u117	Under § 51, there is a proposal of the MP Daniela Saveklieva. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Saveklieva, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 51, which shall become § 50: .................................................................................. In the Law on Trade Marks and Geographical Indications (SG, No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. Article 3 is amended as follows: "Representation" Art. 3. (1) Any person who, under this law, has the right to act before the Patent Office may do so personally, through a lawyer or through an industrial property representative. (2) Person under para. 1 which is not established in the Republic of Bulgaria or in any other Member State of the European Union, in a State Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, or in the Swiss Confederation, shall act before the Patent Office through a lawyer or through an industrial property representative. (3) For industrial property representatives, including their companies or associations acting under representation under this law, the requirements of Chapter 8 of the Law on Patents and the Registration of Useful Models shall apply. 2. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 3a: Rules for submission of documents and for correspondence Art. 3a. (1) All documents in the proceedings before the Patent Office shall be presented in Bulgarian or in translation into Bulgarian. (2) The correspondence relating to the proceedings before the Patent Office shall be kept at the address in the Republic of Bulgaria, at the e-mail address or via the portal for electronic services of the Patent Office, if possible. Upon modification of that address, the Party of Procedure shall notify the Patent Office within 7 days of the change. (3) Where the party to the proceedings before the Patent Office has not indicated an address in the Republic of Bulgaria, a notification shall be sent to the latter, providing it with at least a 7-day period from receipt for an address. Where no address is indicated, the rules for notification under the Administrative Procedure Code shall apply, unless otherwise provided for in this Law. (4) When the party initiating proceedings before the Patent Office does not remove the irregularities within the period under para. 3, same goes off. (5) The verification of the existence of the requirements under para. 2 in applications for registration of a trade mark or geographical indication shall be carried out in accordance with art. Art. 46, respectively 96.................................................... 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5, para. 2, p. 21 words when authorised shall be replaced by or by the lawyer when authorised. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6, para. 2, p. 6 words when authorised shall be replaced by or by the lawyer when authorised. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 8, para. 1 and para. 5 the words "paper and "paper' are replaced by "paper' or "paper'. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 after the words "in industrial property', the lawyer representing him shall be added; (b) in para. 3, p. 6 the words............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 49, para. 2 words when available shall be replaced by the lawyer, where available. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 65, para. 7 his representative shall be replaced by the person representing him. 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the 10. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 95, para. 1 after the words "in industrial property' the lawyer who represents him shall be added. 11. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 98, para. 1 after the words "in industrial property' the lawyer who represents him shall be added. 12. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 105, para. 2 words when available shall be replaced by the lawyer, where available. 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 112, para. 2, p. 3 shall be added after the words "in industrial property', or to an attorney where they are authorised to do so. 14. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 124, para. 5 his representative shall be replaced by the person representing him. 15. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 128, para. 3, p. 1 after the words
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u118	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 51, which shall become § 52. Voted 103 MPs: 92, none, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u119	According to § 52, there is a proposal of the MP Daniela Saveklieva. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Saveklieva, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 52, which shall become § 51: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Industrial Design Act (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. Article 5 is amended as follows: "Representation" Art. 5. (1) Any person who, under this law, has the right to act before the Patent Office may do so personally, through a lawyer or through an industrial property representative. (2) Person under para. 1 which is not established in the Republic of Bulgaria or in any other Member State of the European Union, in a State Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, or in the Swiss Confederation, shall act before the Patent Office through a lawyer or through an industrial property representative. (3) For industrial property representatives, including their companies or associations acting under representation under this law, the requirements of Chapter 8 of the Law on Patents and the Registration of Useful Models shall apply. 2. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 5a: Rules for submission of documents and for correspondence Art. 5a. (1) All documents in the proceedings before the Patent Office shall be presented in Bulgarian or in translation into Bulgarian. (2) The correspondence relating to the proceedings before the Patent Office shall be kept at the address in the Republic of Bulgaria, at the e-mail address or via the portal for electronic services of the Patent Office, if possible. Upon modification of that address, the Party of Procedure shall notify the Patent Office within 7 days of the change. (3) Where the party to the proceedings before the Patent Office has not indicated an address in the Republic of Bulgaria, a notification shall be sent to the latter, providing it with at least a 7-day period from receipt for an address. Where no address is indicated, the rules for notification under the Administrative Procedure Code shall apply, unless otherwise provided for in this Law. (4) Where the party initiating proceedings before the Patent Office does not remove irregularities within the period under para. 3, same goes off. (5) The verification of the existence of the requirements under para. 2 in the procedures for applications for registration of industrial design shall be carried out in accordance with art. 36. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7, para. 1 the words "paper and "paper' are replaced by "paper' or "paper'. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 8, p. 11 the words.. 5. Article 9 is amended as follows: "Access to the State Register of Industrial Designs Art. 9. The State Register of Industrial Designs is electronic and public and is available on the website of the Patent Office. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 31. 1 is amended as (1) The application for registration of an industrial design shall be submitted to the Patent Office by mail, fax or electronic means. Where the application is submitted through the Patent Office e-service portal, identification through a unique identifier of the applicant, the industrial property representative or the lawyer representing it and the electronic signature shall not be mandatory. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 32, para. 1, t. 2 words when authorised shall be replaced by or by the lawyer when authorised. 8. Article 54a, para. 4 is amended as follows: The President of the Patent Office shall issue a certificate for the registration of industrial property representatives and their companies or associations before the Office of the European Union for Intellectual Property and shall take the necessary action to do so in accordance with the requirements of the House. 9. In § 1, t. 4 of the additional provisions, the words "art. 3, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u120	Thank you. Statements, coworkers? I won't. For the Protocol, the corresponding numbering of the paragraphs of 51 of the Commission Report please be corrected because the version of § 52 is voted as § 51. Did I get that right? In this situation, the previous one, who was voted............. will become § 51. I am making the note in order to further take into account the Commission's report with the corresponding renumbering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u121	That's how I report them.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u122	I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 52, which will become relevant after the renumbering. Voted 103 MPs: 94, no objection, abstention 9. The proposed text has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u123	According to § 53, there is a proposal of the MP Daniela Saveklieva. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Saveklieva, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 53, which shall become § 52 in relation to the renumbering: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Topology of Integrated Circuits (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. Article 4 is amended as follows: "Representation" Art. 4. (1) Any person who, under this law, has the right to act before the Patent Office may do so personally, through a lawyer or through an industrial property representative. (2) Person under para. 1 which is not established in the Republic of Bulgaria or in any other Member State of the European Union, in a State Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, or in the Swiss Confederation, shall act before the Patent Office through a lawyer or through an industrial property representative. (3) For industrial property representatives, including their companies or associations acting under representation under this law, the requirements of Chapter 8 of the Law on Patents and the Registration of Useful Models shall apply. 2. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 4a: Rules for submission of documents and for correspondence Art. 4a. (1) All documents in the proceedings before the Patent Office shall be presented in Bulgarian or in translation into Bulgarian. (2) The correspondence relating to the proceedings before the Patent Office shall be kept at the address in the Republic of Bulgaria, at the e-mail address or via the portal for electronic services of the Patent Office, if possible. Upon modification of that address, the Party of Procedure shall notify the Patent Office within 7 days of the change. (3) Where the party to the proceedings before the Patent Office has not indicated an address in the Republic of Bulgaria, a notification shall be sent to the latter, providing it with at least a 7-day period from receipt for an address. Where no address is indicated, the rules for notification under the Administrative Procedure Code shall apply, unless otherwise provided for in this Law. (4) Where the party initiating proceedings before the Patent Office does not remove irregularities within the period under para. 3, same goes off. (5) The verification of the existence of the requirements under para. 2 in the procedures for applications for registration of topology shall be carried out in accordance with art. 27. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6, para. 1 the words "paper and' are replaced by "paper or "paper'. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 26, para. 1, t. 2 words when authorised shall be replaced by or by the lawyer when authorised. 5. In § 1, t. 3 of the additional provisions, the words "art. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u124	Thank you. Statements under § 53 by importer? I don't see anyone who wants to. They voted 107 MPs: 94, none, abstention 13. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u125	There is a proposal of the National Representative Daniela Saveklieva to create a new § 55. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Saveklieva, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 53, which is again in relation to the renumbering: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on the Protection of New Species of Plants and Breeding Animals (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5c, para. 1 the words "paper and "paper' are replaced by "paper' or "paper'. 2. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 5d: Rules for submission of documents and for correspondence Art. 5d. (1) All documents in the proceedings before the Patent Office shall be presented in Bulgarian or in translation into Bulgarian. (2) The correspondence relating to the proceedings before the Patent Office shall be kept at the address in the Republic of Bulgaria, at the e-mail address or via the portal for electronic services of the Patent Office, if possible. Upon modification of that address, the Party of Procedure shall notify the Patent Office within 7 days of the change. (3) Where the party to the proceedings before the Patent Office has not indicated an address in the Republic of Bulgaria, a notification shall be sent to the latter, providing it with at least a 7-day period from receipt for an address. Where no address is indicated, the rules for notification under the Administrative Procedure Code shall apply, unless otherwise provided for in this Law. (4) Where the party initiating proceedings before the Patent Office does not remove irregularities within the period under para. 3, same goes off. (5) The verification of the existence of the requirements under para. 2 in the procedures for applications for the issue of a certificate for new varieties of plants or breeds of animals shall be carried out in accordance with art. 35. The Commission proposes to establish § 54: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Paragraph 30 concerning art. 72c, para. 1 and 8 in the European patent part with unitary effect and § 31 on art. 72g, para. 2, 4 and 5 in the unitary part of the European patent shall apply after the entry into force of the Agreement on the Single Patent Court, signed in Brussels on 19 February 2013, ratified by the Law on ratification of the Agreement on the Single Patent Court (SG No. 32 of 22.04.2016) Proposal of the National Representative Evgenia Alexieva, made in accordance with the order of art. 83. para. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish paragraphs 55 and 56: ........... 55....................................................................... In the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, and for overcoming the consequences (promise, SG No. ...) in § 51a of the transitional and final provisions, the number 21 shall apply during the emergency situation, respectively, to the emergency epidemic situation and 9 months after its cancellation. § 56. Paragraph 55 shall enter into force as of 14 July 2020 and shall apply from 14 July 2020. Paragraph 56 again requires an editorial amendment which I do: In Paragraph 58 of the Commission Report, the number
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u126	Statements on the last four paragraphs of the Law? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u127	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I take the floor on the last two paragraphs that have been read here. I was puzzled to hear the proposals made, and I am surprised that such a thing will be voted on in this House. In this Parliament, we have expected everything else, but not to become a time machine. Because such antiquating, which is being done, firstly, is not a normal practice that a parliament must do, secondly, the meaning of the Law that you want to change. What do you want to do, ladies and gentlemen? By common agreement, we have all adopted a law here that has allowed EU funds to be spent to overcome the consequences of the Coronavirus pandemic. Now you are offering us a text that says that since July 14th, these things have obviously been done and are obviously not legalized. And today you are making an attempt, which, to put it mildly, is brutal with a reverse date to amend the Law, to legitimize something that has obviously happened. Because with these repairs, either you're covering up some huge theft, or you've got the pick, and the European Commission is gonna slap. We're three months behind on the entry into force of the Law. Dear colleagues, you have written down that this law will enter into force on 14 July 2020. We are now 15 October 2020! What happens in these months? There is no Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev, what money has been spent, what are they spent, what are we doing, what are we hiding today? You insert a text that enters at the last minute without being familiar with the MPs without being discussed in committee without being subjected to public discussion without knowing what is coming about what money, what funds, what is the rule, because so, quietly, revolutions can take place? Our National Assembly obviously wants to revolutionize the cover-up. Someone has to come and explain here. What do you want from us? Legalize something that's been done for three months? What's been going on these three months? Really, colleagues, importers, colleagues from GERB, the portfolio Commission today became a time machine? What should we do? [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP.]] Dear colleagues, I suggest that this text be rejected or left for tomorrow to vote, to come to the Deputy Prime Minister Donchev to explain what is happening. Because if you think things are gonna go so quietly, it's not gonna work. You understand the seriousness of what is being said right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u128	Are you doing a procedure for dropping out?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u129	Yeah, I'm also doing a procedure, except for the speech, and I'm doing a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u130	Speaking and procedure do you?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u131	And procedure at the same time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u132	Two in one?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u133	Yeah, that thing. If you want me to finish my speech and do a separate procedure, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u134	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u135	Because such an action is not characteristic. Separately, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 14, para. 1 is written: "Reverse power of the legal act can be given only by exception, and that is by explicit provision. " - Where is the exception, where is the explicit provision here? We also violate the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on Dear colleagues, this is not how you do it. You're in this Parliament for the fourth year and we're doing this as if it was the first time we've opened the parliamentary procedure. There are a bunch of laws, procedures, you've voted thousands of laws here, and now, to date, we're making inventions that, to a large extent, question everything that has been done at this point in the fight against the consequences of the Coronavirus pandemic, are now pointless, and are seriously questioned: what is happening? Someone come and explain here from this tribune, will it be Prime Minister, will it be Deputy Prime Minister, otherwise we consider it a frank theft and a frank cover-up of abuse? That's all I can say. I am already doing a procedure here, Mr. Chairman, to remove this text or to postpone the vote for tomorrow if it is extremely important.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u136	Well, which one?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u137	Let's get this over with. First, a separate vote, the last two paragraphs not to be voted now, to postpone until tomorrow and to come the Deputy Prime Minister to explain what this is about. [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP.]] Is abuse covered, or is it vital that it comes in backwards?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u138	Mr. Ivanov, only one member contains...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u139	The last two paragraphs.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u140	The last one doesn't have the date of July 14th?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u141	It is in the last paragraph, it is related to the last paragraph.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u142	You want to drop the two paragraphs?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u143	Yeah, that's right. They're not just dropping out. If they don't drop out, we'll have to postpone the vote after the Deputy Prime Minister arrives.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u144	You are entitled to a procedural proposal. You're suggesting they drop out, I'll put them to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u145	My procedure is not to drop out...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u146	What is it?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u147	...and to postpone the vote for tomorrow. Let's stop with these two paragraphs the vote on the Law, the last two paragraphs, come the Deputy Prime Minister, who will explain why this is necessary. [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP.]] Because right now I don't see anyone competent to explain. [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP.]] [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP.]] Colleagues, there will be a stain on this parliament like a time machine and a machine that conceals abuse. [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP.]] Understand the seriousness of the problem. [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP.]] Don't shout and don't shout!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-14.u148	You're running out of time. Thank you. Are there lines? There are no lines. In such a case, I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made to postpone the vote on the last two paragraphs, and I shall not be hired to tell them the numbers because they must be renumbered. Vote 116 MPs: 24, against 90, abstention 2. The offer is not accepted. The two paragraphs remained in the text of the Law. I put to the vote Mrs. Saveklieva's editorial proposal. That paragraph, which, according to the Commission Report, is § 58, is to change § 57 by becoming a paragraph... Which of the new members do you mean, Mrs. Saveklieva? However, you said: '55', all these paragraphs are to be renumbered. We've got four new ones. Which of these four do you propose to be recorded at the place of § 57 of the Commission Report? You said it was 55, but I'm not sure it's 55. Which of these new paragraphs is the first, second, third, fourth? You're offering four new paragraphs? [[Declaration with the rapporteur.]] I put to the vote § 58 on the Commission report, in which we have a change in the numbering of § 57 which will receive the corresponding number, but is § 55 of the Report. Whoever finds out what this is about, vote. [[Laughter]] They voted 113 MPs, 95 against 15, abstention 3. The proposal to amend the last paragraph has been accepted. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 55 and 58 by the President of the Commission. Vote 109 MPs: 94 against 14, abstention 1. The last four paragraphs of the Law have been passed. The next meeting of the National Assembly will be tomorrow Due to the exhaustion of the agenda, I am adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
