ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u1	Good afternoon, fellow Members. There's a quorum. [[Ringing]] . I'm opening the meeting. DELEGATION of the President of the National Assembly On the basis of art. 78, p. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 46, para. 2 and 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly I DELIVER: I call an extraordinary plenary session of the Forty-fourth National Assembly on 28 April 2020, Tuesday, at 9.00 on the following agenda: Point one. Hearing under art. 113 of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov on the current state of the country in relation to the pandemic of COVID-19 and the effectiveness of the health, economic and social measures taken. Before we start the procedure, I'll read you a few messages. Bills and draft decisions entered into force on 21 April 2020 until 27 April 2020: A bill to amend and supplement the Road Traffic Act. Importer "Kristina Taskova." The Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications is the lead. A bill to amend and supplement the Penal Code. Importers - Alexander Siddy and Milen Mihov. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. A bill to amend the Penal Code. Importers.. Krasimir Tsipov, Desislava Atanasova and Anna Alexandrova. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020. Importers "Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Annual report on the activities of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for 2019 Importer "The Chairman of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences." It has been allocated to the Committee on Education and Science. Annual report on the activities of the Military Information Service. Importer for 2019 The Council of Ministers. It is assigned to the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act. Messages: In the National Assembly on the basis of art. 113, para. 3 of the Public Finance Act received reports on the implementation of the Programme Budgets for 2019 by the Ministry of Tourism and the Ministry of Economy. The reports are made available to the Budget and Finance Committee and to the relevant portfolio committees and are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. The National Statistical Institute has received information about: Indexes of producer prices on the domestic and international market in industry for February 2020; Business conjuncture in March 2020; Key indicators for the development of the economy in the Republic of Bulgaria as of 6 April 2020; Indexes of turnover in the section The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present you with a reference to the parliamentary control for the period 26 March "27 April 2020" by 17:00: 132 questions and one question are asked; 98 questions are answered and one question answered. 34 questions are to be answered. For 23 of the questions to be answered, the planned date for the answer under art. 96, para. 1 of the Rules. Eleven questions have been postponed by seven days....................................................................................... 96, para. 3 of the Rules. Reply to the date fixed within the modified deadline is expected. All responses received are immediately published on the website of the National Assembly in the section of Parliamentary Control. Thus, the Members of the National Assembly shall immediately receive the answers to their questions and questions, which shall also be available to the attention of all citizens interested in the problems they have raised. We're waiting for 22 questions with a deadline for a response this week. Mr. Tsipov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u2	Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers! I am making a procedural proposal that a single item of today's agenda of the National Assembly be broadcast on BNT and BNR.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Tzipov. Please, voting mode. Vote 153 MPs: 148, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Please turn on the cameras and microphones. Moving on to point one: HEARING BY C.E.A. 113 OF THE RULES ON THE ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF THE PEOPLE'S COVID-19 MINISTER-CONFERENCE OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA BORISOV ON THE ACTUAL SITUATION IN THE COUNTRY WITH REGARD TO THE PANDAEMIA OF COVID-19 AND THE EFFICIENCY OF THE PREACTIVE HEALTH, ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL MEASURES. The procedure under art. 113, you know that it allows the proposer to make a speech on the topic for five minutes. The persons heard shall inform the National Assembly of the questions to be heard within 10 minutes. Each of the parliamentary groups shall be entitled to two questions, the MPs not members of a parliamentary group, who shall have a total of one question. Each question shall be within two minutes to the individual persons heard. Hearing persons shall be responsible after asking each question. Parliamentary groups shall have the right to comment on the answers of the persons heard within five minutes of asking all questions. Mr. Vigenin, would you like to present us with the proposal for a hearing?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u4	Dear Madam President, honourable Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly! In a classical parliamentary democracy, there would be no need for the opposition to convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly to hear the prime minister. He would have asked himself to come periodically and to inform the MPs, and through them and the citizens about the measures taken, the interim results in the management of the pandemic, the handling of the deepening economic crisis and the impending social crisis. Because you liked to compare yourself with others in front of your parliaments appeared: Angela Merkel in Germany, Pedro Sanchez in Spain, Sebastian Kurtz in Austria, Giuseppe Conte in Italy, Eduard Philip in France, Andrej Plenkovic in Croatia and many, many others. Today, we from BSP for Bulgaria have made it possible for you to become part of this company, albeit from a second attempt. So far, you, Prime Minister, not only did you not consider it necessary to come here on your own initiative, but did not even present the promised analysis of the results of the one-month emergency period introduced unanimously by Parliament on 13 March to explain why it was necessary to extend it by more than a month and what your goals are. Moreover, your parliamentary group has completely crossed out the oral parliamentary control. You, like your ministers, prefer to lead monologues in a controlled environment on TV screens. It's time to put an end to this. We are not here to hinder you, but to help you by presenting other points of view by critically reflecting on your decisions and actions. This is actually the foundation of democracy and the state of emergency cannot cancel it either temporarily or partially. In some anti-utopia, it can probably be managed by the television screen, but in parliamentary democracies the power is in this room and whoever wants to exercise it will report to his people here, from this tribune. We realize that the situation is unprecedented, yet the assessment of your actions is far from uniform, as you are trying to present it. Several examples: the detailed National plan for preparedness for influenza pandemic was not implemented in 2006. Instead, a National Operational Headquarters was established which has no real authority, with unclear responsibilities and without the possibility of being subjected to either parliamentary or public control. There's a problem with public communication. The content of the information is more and more falling into the background. Daily briefings lack focus, no message to citizens. Making fear doesn't work for a lot of people anymore. You, personally, Prime Minister, stop talking about corpses. Make the Bulgarians empathetic with logical steps, clear goals and predictability in the actions. It is an indisputable fact that Bulgaria is one of the countries with low mortality and low number of infected. These are key assessment criteria, although not unique, but this is not a reason to mask problems that have created serious tensions: the contradiction and denigration of the danger at the beginning, the shortage of protective equipment and tests, the slow building of testing capacity, the constant changes in the orders issued, the list is long. Everything undertaken so far in support of the business is half-life, ineffective, applicable to a small part of the businesses, focused mainly on loans to the state, loans to companies, loans to citizens. Now you're producing unemployed. Social measures are even more simple. Far poorer than Bulgaria countries have also made the impossible to help every citizen overcome the period of restrictions and quarantine easier. You rejected BSP's reasonable suggestions. Today we want to hear, first of all, what lies ahead of us: is there a plan for the next steps? Under what conditions will we move on to loosening the restrictions, what is to come next? Are sectoral strategies prepared for different options? How do we coordinate these issues within the European Union and with the neighbours? The Bulgarians ask specific questions: what happens to school; when and how will health care be normalized; when will the restrictions fall over district cities where there are no new cases in weeks? I'm just giving you a few examples. It's been a long time since the day with the first reported cases. We're at a new stage now. Now our health system is in better shape to deal with the epidemic. Bulgarian doctors, medical staff are more prepared. The citizens themselves today are much more aware of the disease, know what it takes to protect themselves and others. The vast majority strictly abides by the rules and are very disciplined. Share responsibility with them by offering them a plan to follow together. The place to discuss it in its entirety is here in Parliament. The approach is to stay home while the Headquarters evaluates itself. It is time to move on to targeted measures on a sectoral and territorial principle, to accelerated preparations for exiting the emergency situation with a carefully thought-out legislative package to ensure the necessary flexibility in terms of measures.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u5	Time, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u6	Before I conclude, Madam President, I would like to take this opportunity to express our gratitude to both doctors and policemen, drivers, cashiers, volunteers and all those who, at risk for their health and their lives, continue to be on the front line and take a serious share of the burden of combating the epidemic. We're looking forward to your exhibition, Prime Minister. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin! Prime Minister, please come in within 10 minutes to make your presentation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Vigenin, I have listened carefully to your sound as always. I just remind you that before it began or when it was already known that there was a pandemic, I personally called your chairman Mrs. Nino and suggested that we meet and go through this disease together that took over the world. And I was denied! And since there were so many people in parliament, in fact, and at the moment, we are in no way complying with the quarantine conditions, because what is the difference between a theatre working right now and parliament? But that's what you decided. We're here to answer. To date, we have 1387 confirmed cases of COVID 19, of which 58 died and 222 cured. According to data from the European Center for Disease Control, Bulgaria is in the first place in the low number of sick persons per 100 000 population and third place after Slovakia and Latvia in the lowest number of deceased persons per 100 000 population, which is an indicator and a very clear answer how timely and good the measures were. It's health care. We first started organizing ourselves, we started training, we had enough clothes and tests, and everything we needed for such a pandemic, but none of us could judge in the world its huge scale that would then occur. So we quickly reorganized the industry and began to manufacture both our clothes and our masks and helmets and our first-line glasses. I join the thanks of all you have listed, I would add to them the policemen, I would add the teachers who, in these conditions, managed to conduct a very good learning process. I suppose there will also be questions, but our measures are fully in line with the recommendations of the World Health Organization and therefore, as you said, we have created this National Crisis Headquarters by the best specialists in these areas. I think every day all media can get as many answers as they want and ask as many questions as they want publicly in any controlled environment. So let's be correct to the headquarters that works around the clock and I think it duly responds and informs the public every morning. The fact is that the vast majority of the media give them directly without any obligation. This means that there is an interest in what they say, and at the same time it is useful for people. What are our measures that you have listed? In fact, because they are extremely timely and accurate, very well refined, very well-adjusted with folksychology, we practically have the most liberal measures in Europe. The most liberal! What is said in Italy today with such an aplomb that from May 4th, you see, we will loosen the measures, we have not stopped at all the construction, the shops, the movement of the people, or the loosening of the children only in front of the bloc, in other countries. In practice, there is no country, not to mention the region of Greece, Serbia, Turkey, where there is a curfew and does not allow people to leave the house. I am extremely grateful to the media that, apart from the internal environment, there is always a report about what is happening in other countries. We were the only ones who didn't close our churches and monasteries and had our rites. At the moment when the plateau or the small peak, as they call it at the Headquarters, we immediately gave the children the opportunity to be vaccinated, and the children, to restore the women's consultations, the planning operations, the in vitro, from yesterday in a certain order to enjoy the parks. Bulgarians can move virtually unlimited number of times to the store, to the pharmacy, to the bank, to the insurance branch and no one is tracking them about it. Since I suppose you'll then ask me about the measures, and it's a lot longer, I'll let you answer them afterwards. That's what we've done right now. The fact that we have the least deceased, sick, means that with the first health issue, we have dealt with it. And I strongly recommend that we listen to the words of the Headquarters, because the results are currently visible. Yes, we loosen the measures, but they are already as loose as they have no analogue in other countries. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u9	Thank you, Prime Minister. Colleagues, we'll start with the questioning procedure. First question will be asked by the parliamentary group of GERB. No questions asked. From the BSP parliamentary group? Mr. Stoinev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Prime Minister, my question to you is perhaps expected, as all Bulgarian citizens ask themselves this question: is the government an economic plan for exiting the crisis? I'm saying this, Prime Minister, because we are really in an unprecedented crisis. This is not the economic and financial crisis that started in 2009, this is a pandemic crisis, I would say this is a crisis of consumption. Misunderstood problem also leads to wrong policy and it is no accident that people in the country complain that the funds do not reach the affected. What do I mean? Of course, the measure 60/40, after its repeated change, unfortunately, still does not recognise it and wants the change to be 60/0. There is no way we are not going to approve at first glance 173 million grants to small and medium-sized enterprises, only, Prime Minister, do you realize that the effect will be zero? Why would it be zero? Because in such a crisis, the speed at which these funds will reach businesses is important. These are nearly 20,000 projects to be approved, agreed, to confirm both financial and technical reports from the Ministry of Economy. I don't think there's such an administration that can handle it in such a short time unless we really want this to go on for years. The fund of funds is an adventure that began in the distant 2016 year. 327 million have been flown into this fund, Mr. Prime Minister, much of the MPs do not even know about its existence and the effect so far is zero. How can we believe that in a few months we will actually have a real effect?! That is, since there is a new kind of crisis, we believe that... [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u11	Time, Mr. Stoinev!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u12	...the place is here in Parliament. I'm graduating, Madam President! Indeed, there should be a consensus with which there are concrete measures to get out of the crisis. What you are proposing right now does not meet the expectations of Bulgarian citizens. These measures don't work! This is what we of the opposition say not to pick on, but to say the Bulgarian employers and Bulgarian workers...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u13	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u14	Do you have an economic plan to get out of the crisis? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u15	Thank you. Prime Minister, please answer Mr. Stoinev's question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Stoinev, I repeat, thanks to the media we have the opportunity to observe what is happening in other countries as well. If there was a plan somewhere that would guarantee the economic development of any country, we could easily rewrite it. In the case in Bulgaria many sectors continued to work, and at full speed, somewhere with higher turnovers, and agriculture, construction, and we have not banned it, the IT sector. Reliable news is that next month, car factories in the world are expected to start working.. 75% is the decline in car sales, and we have 250 plants that work only for them. It's a huge mass of people. Under measure 60/40 we currently have 7403 applications submitted, 101 849 workers and employees have benefited from it. Between seven thousand and ten thousand workers each day retain their jobs. At this rate by the end of the month, we will retain more than 120 thousand jobs. The great mystery is how we will manage in the tourism sector, because in the world there is no recipe for our neighbours, nor for us, how this sector can be released to work. This morning we had a Coalition Council, Valeri Simeonov proposed with vouchers for tourism. We agreed in a working group to see what money it would cost and how to do it so that we wouldn't turn hotels into hospitals at some point. What can I say? Many countries have left with an understatement of the situation. She was also underestimated in Bulgaria, you remember, not by me, of course, not by me! You remember about March 3rd what the discussions were like, so the microbusiness measure, the micro companies... Tomislav Donchev "That is why I have also taken those ministers who have a direct relationship to be able, if necessary and in more detail to clarify, because they are working. That is why we have said entirely electronically, only to notification mode, so that it can be done as quickly as possible. Yes, some will lie, they also lie with the declarations, but we cannot, because of the vast majority of the companies, apply this check to the administration, which is done at other times. The goal is to actually go as fast as possible to those who need it. That is our goal, and I say again, much richer countries than us, much richer countries than we promise, speak, but so far only one or two have implemented some measure. In the United States, yes, they gave money per capita, but that in no way helped them. Today you may have seen how many thousands have died. So we, as part of the European Union and as Mr Vigenin asked, are working with the European Union on a daily basis. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u17	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u18	No, I understand what you want! We take out and hand out the money for a month. You have done this many times, and then we will ask where we will raise money, whether the business will respond when the treasury is empty, to pay pensions, salaries for army, police, doctors. So I envy you a little, you can offer everything for all at once, but we must also bear responsibility, first of all, for health. We carry it, and now to preserve the opportunity, not knowing how long this disease will last. You see, the Oktoberfest is being canceled, they're talking about the Luffhanza that it's going to fly from November. Between the lines when you read, American auto companies are talking about July, Germans are talking about next month. Is that how it's gonna be? It's all in the future time! And we, as part of a global economy, are moving along with them. We can't handle our own health, we can keep it, we can with these measures, if it goes on like this, God forbid we're at the lowest levels. The rest of us are related to the neighbors and to everyone else. You saw how we made the green corridors go, and many other things. So, if you have ideas that are very realistic, you can do it with the greatest pleasure we will work with you. I'd love to. You refused me, not me.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u19	Thank you, Prime Minister. We continue with the questions from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Here you go, Mrs. Jaffer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u20	Honourable President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen ministers, honourable Members of the House! The conclusions of this unprecedented crisis will be made when it is over. When this will happen is a serious question to which there is no answer at this time. However, the lessons that can be confirmed are already emerging. First of all, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Finance Minister, it is time to reconsider and understand that the funds invested in health care are not expenditure, but investment. Secondly, it is time to understand that the management of such a crisis will not happen with a single act of quarantine, of isolation, but will be a long process. In this sense, a slender system of testing can focus on the most necessary anti-epidemic measures. Axyoma is that more testing means more diagnosis. Axyoma is that the money invested in tests, however much they are at the moment, will be many times less than the damage to the economy, on people's incomes and will affect unemployment. I will quote the facts, Mr. Prime Minister, and they are from last week in relation to the testing data in the various European countries. I will refer to the data of the World Health Organisation and its European office. I will also quote some data on surrounding countries, neighbouring us. Bulgaria, unfortunately, turns out to be last in the number of people tested per million and last in the absolute number of tests carried out. I know not only myself and my fellow doctors, but also the public about the disputes you witnessed. However, we argue that tests are a highly effective epidemiological approach and only combining them correctly, synchronized over time, properly distributed chronologically, will draw the conclusions [[the President signals that time has run out]] Whatever needs to be done.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u21	The question, Mrs. Jaffer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u22	Mr. Premier, Germany has tested 25,000 people per million population, Austria, 22 thousand per 1 million population, Hungary, 5 thousand per 1 million population, Turkey, 9 thousand per 1 million population, Greece, 5500 per 1 million population, Romania, of the same size. Bulgaria is at the bottom of this ranking with 3600 tests per million population. Let's use this standardized approach. What is your attitude to this problem? Is the state ready to ensure the financial and logistical conduct of tests for Bulgarian citizens? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u23	Thank you, dear Mrs. Jaffer. Mr. Prime Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Jaffer, we currently have 60,000 tests. On the dates I can tell you the date of April 20th: 345 tests were made on April 20th, on the 21st 743, on the 22nd at 783, on the 23rd at 1238, on the 24th at 1155, on the 25th at 778, on the 26th at 325, on the 27th at 1128. We have available at the moment: from the United States - 5000 PCR, 10,000 PCR from China, 15 000 PCR bought with the decree, remember, the Ministry of Health and another 30 000 from Korea. In Greece, they tested them more, but the deceased were over 200. Our headquarters very targeted selects the groups. You can see, thanks to the rapid reactions, the quarantine actions, whether in Bansko or in other settlements, and immediately testing these groups after 14 days have passed, we release them to be able to return to normal life. I am glad that you gave the two richest countries in Europe - Germany and Austria - then you gave me an example of Turkey, which produces tests, only our doctors do not believe them. We can score as many as you want. To be even more convincing, we ordered 1 million tests through the European Commission a month and a half ago to pay. To this day, there's not a single test from there. Why don't you think? Why don't they bet their name against one of the tests, whether it's Belgian, whether it's Chinese or so on? Or why they can't... I accept your question that we are unable or incompetent. What about them? They can't either? The question of testing causes every day a controversy of the biggest specialists in one area or another and has no unique opinion. The average European is about 1 person per 1,000 people tested and we are trying to be this size. We'll test more if we have to. Once we get 1 million tests from the European Union, there will be no story about them at all. But some of them are 150 euros each, and the Chinese were $3, which made $9. You don't think that if we thought it was right and there was 100% credibility, we would hesitate? Not at all. But to give money is good that we didn't buy those 1 million quick tests, as others did, because you only read one of the countries, read the other countries that bought and are being sued right now, what to do! Isn't that right? [[Reply from the National Representative Nigyar Jaffer.]] Okay. That's what I mean. When we read one of them, let's read the other ones who rushed so they don't ask them in parliament, and now they're suing, and they're wondering how to get them back, because they're real at 12! We're watching, we're on standby, we've got resources. You see, when we made a commitment over 3,500 doctors, nurses, lab technicians got 1,000 levs. Clear. The officers on line one will receive £650 tomorrow. We will continue with the curricula tomorrow we will accept another 130 and how many million were, Goranov, for education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u25	Thank you, Prime Minister. From the parliamentary group of the United Patriarchs? There won't be a question. From the Parliamentary Group of the Will? I won't. From the independents? Mr. Panchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u26	Madam President, Prime Minister, gentlemen and ministers, dear colleagues! We have been in a state of emergency for at least two months, in an unprecedented crisis, which you, Prime Minister, along with the Council of Ministers, have managed to deal with so far. You have created a National Headquarters, a logistics centre that does excellent work and is the closest contact to the Bulgarian population. It is true that we, Bulgarian citizens, my friends, as Chairman of the Agricultural Union, are grateful to the excellent Bulgarian doctors, medical workers, lecturers, commercial workers, even colleagues from the administration who continue to work in the performance of their tasks. It's certain we'll be able to fight it. I am glad that we are among Europe's leading countries in the fight to overcome the epidemic. After it, unfortunately, an economic crisis is beginning, which, Prime Minister, will probably last a long time. You said about the measures in tourism, we see you constantly visiting Bulgarian companies, businesses. There is one sector, however, which, when Bulgaria was in economic crisis, was the first to help to get out of the crisis - this is agriculture. From my meetings with farmers, with the people who care about our livelihood...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u27	The question, Mr. Panchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u28	...I have an order. And my request to you, Mr. Prime Minister, is: firstly, they insist that there is a national council, a strategy for the development of agriculture and food industry, which could actively support the activities of both the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Economy. And a little more you and Mr. Goranov can address them and help financially the development of small and medium-sized businesses in the industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Panchev. Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u30	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Panchev, the sector is the most supported sector. Even now, those who have no job have the opportunity to go to agriculture, to work and to receive both wages. Of course, we're in constant contact with them, you see, even quite a few months before they need it, we pay for both tobacco manufacturers and many others, so that they can plant in time, spray, perform their activities. And this water supply, which concerns a huge part of the arable areas of Razgrad, Shumen, Targovishte and the surrounding areas, will also lead to support, including irrigation there, because the dams are currently running out. The drought is huge? at the end of spring 50% of the volumes are full. So that's what we're thinking about right now. Of course, we have constant contact with them. The sector can also be supported, but, again, I say, also through the Agriculture Fund, and through the Ministry of Agriculture this is one of the most supported sectors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u31	Thank you, Prime Minister. Moving on to the second round of questions. From the parliamentary group of GERB? There won't be a question. Mr. Gokov, please come in and ask your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Ministers, honourable Prime Minister! Our assessment is: the government is more talking about measures to deal with the crisis than it is actually implementing them. We've heard a lot of good intentions from you, from your finance minister, from the other ministers, but practically nothing! Your measurements aren't working! The actions taken to strengthen health and mitigate socio-economic... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u33	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u34	...laters in Bulgaria did not respond to the seriousness and scale of the crisis. The Bulgarians do not think that the government is able to mobilise all possible means for their support. You want a thank you, but for what? I do not know a Bulgarian who has directly reached any compensation or aid from the state. Measures in other countries show that there is far greater concern for the ordinary person and small business. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u35	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u36	Your model for dealing with the crisis is characterized by weak socio-economic measures only loans, loans and compensations. What's going on so far? There's probably a hundred thousand of them already. In a month or two, the unemployment rate will be 10%, and the unemployed will become 350.. 400,000. You're very fond of social measures. There are none for unemployed, for more than 250 thousand self-insuring, including free professions, for those who are sent on unpaid leave, for mothers who are forced to watch their children, for those who are forced to work without contracts, for small and medium businesses. Prime Minister, did you know that the minimum daily unemployment allowance is 9 BGN, i.e. 180 BGN. A month, and they get 25% of those entitled to compensation? How to live with 6 leva. a day, Mr. Borisov? We understand you don't have an economic plan! And do you have a clear social plan to get out of the crisis, Mr. Prime Minister? What specific measures do you plan from now on to support the Bulgarians with grants? What will be your social program so that the poor don't get poorer and poorer and more richer and richer? What part of the loan of 10 billion. lv. and in what form they will reach the ordinary Bulgarian because they will pay for it. Thank you, Prime Minister. I expect adequate answers to these questions from you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u37	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. [[Noise and lines.]] Prime Minister, come in. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, please be quiet in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u38	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear colleague, the measure 60/40, where 60% pays the state plus the insurance, is not it a grant?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u39	But not directly to people.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u40	How is it not directly to people, but to whom?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u41	How many people did they get it?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u42	Over 100,000, yes, workers. She's a grant. One hundred and seventy-three million dollars worth of grant for the micro companies. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u43	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u44	I can't hear you, I'm answering your question, if you notice. Plus another 170 million we're preparing now. We have one of the most important tasks to save the money for the pensioners, for the workers, for those who are in social systems, for the medical workers, for the army, for the police. You're talking about a ten-billion-dollar loan. We didn't take credit. We didn't take credit! I thanked you for giving the opportunity, if the money is not enough, then let's take credit. We didn't draw until now. We really want life to be able to go on at full speed after that because, believe me, the moment the money runs out, the state has experienced it on several occasions, there is no business to come to the aid of either the pensioners or the employees in the public sector who perform both public order and health care and everything else. You as an opposition instead of telling me, don't spend the money so that we can implement our plans in time. [[noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You're now pushing me to take out the billions, give them away, and then [[single applause from GERB]] to go into shock and shout: but they gave the money. Which one do we do? [[(Reply from the BSP for Bulgaria.......................................................................................................]] That's what we used to call it, but we were screaming, don't spend it, and now you're saying spend it. Okay, thank you. So many grants we give on the basis of opportunities, and in agriculture we give a lot of grants, and there is a lot of support there. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u45	Thank you, Prime Minister. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, Mr. Tsonev, come in for a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u46	Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers! My question is related to the most effective measure in our view of all the measures taken by the government in the 60/40, namely its improved option. We believe that good cooperation between opposition and government is an example in this measure 60/40 and its improved option. You have already submitted data in your previous answers that more than 101 thousand are reserved jobs thanks to this measure, that is, they have so resorted to the use of this measure. I know that about 90 thousand are the new unemployed, which in a simple account says that if it wasn't for this measure, if it wasn't for the opportunity to work, the new unemployed would be over 200 thousand. So this is a very good example of the effectiveness of a measure with not much money invested and shared between business and state. And since, according to many economists, clearly and in our opinion, the most important condition at the beginning and in the current phase of development of the crisis is precisely support for the preservation of jobs, my question is related precisely to this measure. Is the resource that is on it sufficient, does it need more improvements, I mean as a range for the sectors? Has a sectoral analysis been carried out, which sectors use it? Is there an analysis of which industries, which companies use it, the ones who have stopped working, or those who have reduced the volume of work? That is to say, my question relates to this measure: is there an analysis to show how to improve it, because it has indeed proved to be very effective and very important in combating the crisis, particularly the economic crisis? Instead of spreading locums here, at 100 unknowns when the crisis will end and so on, and so forth, we prefer to talk specifically about such things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u47	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonev. Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u48	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tsonev, on average registered on a day on 7 April " 7619," on 27 April "2769," nearly three times less. The reduction is nearly 5,000 people in 13 working days. On average, a day reduces between 300 and 400 people. The measure 60/40 covers 7403 applications submitted for 101 849 employees and employees. Between 7,000 and 10,000 workers each day retain their jobs. At this rate by the end of the month, we will retain more than 120 thousand jobs. It is no accident that Mrs. Sacheva is here, we are doing constant analysis, we are monitoring this movement, we are monitoring the sectors and we are happy to, if you like, we have already been inhaling, then she can remain more detailed to answer this question. That's the frame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u49	Thank you, Prime Minister. From the United Patriarchs? There won't be a question. From the Volk Party? There won't be a question. Colleagues, we've run out of questions for the Prime Minister. We start with the relationship within five minutes. Here you are, Mr. Nenkov, for attitude from the parliamentary group of GERB. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u50	Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u51	He had a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u52	I gave all the parliamentary groups the opportunity to ask a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u53	As last week was clear, at today's hearing we hardly heard anything different from what the government daily gives as a report to all media and to all Bulgarian citizens. But in the end, we have been in a state of emergency for over a month and a half. It is good to take account of what we have done so far. The most important question we have to answer for this month and a half, where everything actually started, and in the situation we are in, is this: is Bulgaria dealing so far with the health aspect of the virus? Are we able to keep government and health workers and all those on the front line alive and healthy? And I think we should give ourselves a single answer here, and it's definitely that the government and all the people involved in this battle are dealing with it so far, let's not say great, but they're doing everything in their power! It is no accident that Bulgaria is in one of the last places in the number of infected and the number of deceased. Here, of course, the deceased should not be just a statistic because human life is a priceless good and the battle for it must be universal. And I hope that Bulgaria will remain really on these final rankings in the coming months, because obviously the battle is not yet a cure or any cure for this, so obviously the coming months, do not give yourselves God and years, we will have to deal with this situation and we have to fight for every single human life. When we speak on the other side of the issue, the economic measures and how Bulgaria should preserve its economic potential, so that when the world economy starts moving forward again, Bulgaria should be in its condition, we must answer a very important question and most of the questions that have been asked today were related in an economic nature. Why are we talking about economics? Because Bulgaria has dealt with its first most important issue so far to master, to suppress what other countries did not and crashed. And some countries in recent weeks have not talked about economic measures at all. They now started to talk about it because they had another problem about how to preserve people's lives, because on a day they died more than 1,000 people in other countries with much greater opportunities, with much greater self-esteem, expected that they would cope seamlessly. But our government, of course, and thanks to Parliament, has succeeded in a timely manner with decisive and courageous measures, because it requires courage in a situation like this to take unpopular measures in order to find ourselves in this situation that we are in right now and to talk about how Bulgaria will emerge from the economic situation that it is in. About economic measures, of course, a lot has been said, but imagine a situation here that can clearly be taken into account for the left and right management. Imagine Bulgaria, if it were in a situation in which this year we had planned a 3-4% budget deficit and started with a minus 3-billion minimum that had to be credited to fill the budget, and we this year, thanks to the conservative policy in recent years, for taking advantage of the good years of the economy, have managed to preserve some reserve that we are using right now. We didn't even have a planned deficit this year. And because of that Bulgaria, it was no accident that the Prime Minister mentioned, yes, we voted for the possibility of a debt of up to 10 billion, but at this stage the state is dealing with the resource that it has managed to allocate. Which is not small at all! And if Bulgaria were once referred to as one of the worst countries in Europe, on the contrary, Bulgaria is currently one of the best financially and economically stable countries. You saw the other day the credit agencies confirmed Bulgaria's credit rating. You have seen the attitude of the European Central Bank. You have seen that Bulgaria continues its path to its membership in the Eurozone. You also saw what the President of the International Monetary Fund said: nearly 100 countries, if not more, have already applied for aid. Bulgaria has not sought at all and at this stage has no such intention at all. And they praised our fiscal and financial policy. Therefore, colleagues, in conclusion, I would like to tell you the following, and I address my fellow Members on the left: there is time for elections, there is time for congresses, there is time for political accounts. Now, more than ever, it is important that the Bulgarian political class is united and shows unity in its direction, because this problem we are facing, this invisible threat will most likely last very long. And it is very important that we do not give mixed signals to the Bulgarian society because, as in the debate on salaries that we had a few weeks ago, I and then said: in the end people will not respect us because we have reduced our salaries, but what decisions we make and how many forward steps we take, so that, on the one hand, to preserve people's lives and health, on the other hand, to maintain a good economic balance so that Bulgaria will be with some breasts in front of many other countries, which will find themselves in a very difficult situation after this crisis. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u54	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. For attitude from the BSP parliamentary group. Mrs. Ninova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u55	Madam President, Prime Minister, ministers and colleagues! Dear Bulgarians, it is not true that today everything you have heard has been repeated at press conferences. Today we have important news about your life, delivered by the Prime Minister of Bulgaria: we have no plan to get out of the crisis! That's the news from today. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mr. Borisov, from the hearing we understand that you do not have a specific answer to any question. According to our assessment, you have a miscalculation of the situation, a miscalculation with a drop of 3% instead of eight, as the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund predict; a mistaken unemployment forecast for international institutions predict 9%; you act in a piece and, as we have already heard, you have no plan to go from here on. On this basis, you produce chaotic solutions that you change every day, and sometimes within the same day; you cause fear in people to dominate them in submission; you abdicate the state of obligations to be adequate in this crisis. Today you say there is no plan because there is no plan in other countries. On the contrary, European statesmen have long developed a plan and not only on paper, but also apply it to a Plan to restore the economy and to help their citizens, in two directions: providing financial resources for lending to businesses and grants to households. In Bulgaria, the label of your behavior is credits to the state, business and people. They must return, however, and there is no way both business and people, if the economy is not stabilized and people have no income, to return these loans. So far, you've worked with a trial error. Dear Bulgarian citizens, here the Prime Minister said that he invited the opposition in my face to join the work of the Council of Ministers and the Headquarters one night at 10:00. Do you think this is normal?! [[Noise and lines.]] We gave our answer as a political party, and I as a leader.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u56	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u57	Mr. Prime Minister, please come to Parliament, we will support everything you have wisely and give you alternative proposals. The Bulgarian Socialist Party, Mr. Borisov, did it four times. Once when we adopted the Emergency Act, once when we updated it, once when we adopted the budget and once when we adopted the budget update. If for four times you have not understood that we are handing out reasonable solutions, then today I will offer it to you fifth time, because if you do not have a plan for exiting the crisis, we will offer you one. Focus on several things: restoring the economy through aid for production, increasing consumption and several urgent reforms. Production aid.. you should have done it by now, if you haven't, we will provide it to you, an analysis of what are those productions in Bulgaria that generate the highest growth in gross domestic product and there are the most people working there. And now we're going to tell you this because you obviously don't have a plan: mining and processing industry - 23%; trading, hotel and restaurant services - 22%, health care, education and social activities - 14%, real estate operations - 10%. Focus in these sectors and we offer you a study of historical experience by not having your own for ten years. What did they do after World War II, Japan, Singapore, Western Europe and Taiwan? They have made targeted subsidisation and lending to the most important sectors in their economy and have led their countries to the forefront of development. That's what you do! Provide such targeted lending! If you don't know what conditions we can offer you. The other line of policy towards economics and production is the grant for maintaining jobs. Increase consumption.. the second pillar for growth in the economy. How is consumption increasing? By increasing your income. Today, Mr. Borisov, you claim that you keep the money for pensioners. There are no basic economic and basic principles here. The money for the pensioners comes from the workers. Stimulate the workers at the moment, stimulate the business, give the workers money so that they can pay you back through taxes in the budget and have money for the pensioners as well. The more workers you provide today, the more money you will have for pensions. Pay attention to agriculture and provide food for the Bulgarian people.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u58	Time, Mrs. Ninova!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u59	Redirect money to fruits, vegetables, meat and milk and pay no land area that is not processed but per kilogram of produced produce. Start an urgent health reform, in which hospitals are not commercial companies, and the salaries of medical professionals and their preparation are determined by state policy, a specific regulation for this. Learn from your European partners! Mrs Merkel before each decision goes to the Bundestag and is advised and decided there.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u60	Time, Mrs. Ninova! Get it over with!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u61	Compare your behaviour with European statesmen. It's where all the help is made for the people, only credit here. [[(Noise and lines from GERB:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u62	Time, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u63	I conclude with two comparative sentences for European statesmen and Bulgarian rulers. The Europeans say: "We will not leave anyone alone, we will not leave anyone without care, we will make efforts to protect each one of you. ".. Our Prime Minister says: "I will now save you, and then we will get better.."..... this sounds like: I am now to save myself and the government, and then you deal with it.......................... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u64	Time, Mrs. Ninova! I've been giving you more than a minute. [[Cornelia Ninova continues to speak with microphones off.]] Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. However, we have a procedure with a clear regulation. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mr. Karadayi, please come in for consideration by the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u65	Madam President, Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms are assessing the anti-epidemic measures at this stage that they are good and have produced a good result in comparison with other countries. Secondly, the socio-economic measures at the first stage, at this stage, had to be in several directions: measures to preserve jobs; protection of the most vulnerable part of society; support for the liquidity of companies in order to be able to pay each other back and, naturally, all of this had to be arranged chronologically in view of the budget's capabilities to ensure some degree of budgetary stability. For now, we believe that these measures are satisfactory mainly by what we have heard about both the improved measure 60/40 and the data that have taken place today. But the question is, what's next? From now on, the crisis requires a new approach, requires an epidemiological crisis management plan and a way out of the crisis with different options of behaviour. Economic measures require a new approach, sectoral analysis and sectoral strategies. The fight against the coronavirus should also include a plan to restore the economy and normal rhythm of life. World analysts show that the world economy will be remodeled and that this is a chance for smaller economies and smaller countries. In our view, it is necessary for the executive to present as soon as possible an urgent action plan with specific measures and deadlines for implementation... specific measures specifically for business, for small and medium-sized enterprises and for the most vulnerable citizens. From the beginning of the crisis, we at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms have stated, and so far we are doing so that we will support the measures of the National Operational Headquarters. Today, as a country, we need a plan, and an hour sooner, so that we, too, can make a contribution to the fight against this epidemic and this crisis. And in the final, I would like to thank everyone who is on the front line in the fight against the pandemic: medical staff doctors, nurses, nurses, pharmacists, policemen, mayors of municipalities, mayors of town halls, volunteers and others. I may miss someone, but I'd like to thank you all for this tribune. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u66	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. [[Applause from DPS.]] From the Group of United Patriots Mr. Veselinov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u67	Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! We heard a comparison between Bulgarian and European politicians, and I am tempted to make a comparison between Bulgarian and Spanish Socialists, because at the beginning of the crisis, the leader of Spanish Socialists said: "I stop having political opponents, in this crisis we should all be united. In this regard, I think that this council corresponds very much to what is written in front of this building:. The truth is that in this crisis Bulgaria has shown itself as a responsible country, the Bulgarian society has shown itself to be disciplined and therefore the negative results of this crisis are minimal, at least as regards morbidity, mortality and so on. There's no reason to try to pull out the white black and try to rewind how unhappy we are, destroyed, dying and so on. In this regard, my appeal to everyone in this House is to look for a really normal dialogue, because this normal dialogue is a task for an opportunity to emerge from the crisis. We all have our ideas, not all our ideas, of course, are accepted. Including us, although we are part of the ruling majority, we have offered publicly many things that the larger partner in the government does not think are appropriate. However, the issue is to have dialogue, not to fight for the authorship of ideas, the fight is to have good ideas to come out of the crisis. In this regard, I think that perhaps indeed the Council of Ministers should have a more institutionalised way of dialogue with the political forces represented in parliament. Not here formally from the stands to show how many statistics we have read and how many learned economic theories we can demonstrate, but rather a working dialogue in which everyone can be complicit in the outcome of the crisis. I think that's what we're all gonna be happy about. The political dividend can be for one or another. It is not important, it is important that society is consolidated after all, because that is the most important thing. In fact, this is our appeal to the United patriots: let us try less to look for television appearances and convince ourselves how bad the work is and make the work go better. It's in our hands, everyone in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u68	Thank you, Mr. Veselinov. From the party WALK attitude? Mr. Mareshki, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u69	Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers! We are reporting today that democracy is in danger, but not because at a time of emergency there is no parliamentary control, but because Parliament is being held hostage by an internal party battle in BSP. [[Laughter and applause from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] Yeah, that's right, and then I'll tell you and you'll laugh a little bit more. Someone here has a screaming need for this tribune to secure a party post. The highest state institution, such as parliament, cannot become an instrument for internal party self-roaring of the Socialists. I sympathize with the BSP colleagues because what has proved to be in this complicated situation? They couldn't figure out where they were, so they got weightless. That's why they needed a scandal in parliament to remind themselves. [[Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria "Return it to the topic"]] It is a pity that because of personal ambitions they are trying to turn parliament into a spectacle. At a time when the nation must be united, colleagues and their president continue to play guerrilla and seek out the enemy. [[Laughter from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] My fellow Members, I would like, on behalf of our parliamentary party, I hope, and from all those who differ from this pathetic pasquil who played today, to apologize to all Bulgarian citizens who, thanks to BNT, have witnessed this. We of Volya, looking seriously at the asset available to the socialists, professors, folk artists, generals, expected to really ask important questions here today. Questions that we have not heard, and therefore we have not heard their answers eventually, because there could have been questions to which we have heard the answers. But what did we hear? Pathetic questions and therefore weak answers. Because there's no way even the best world famous artist... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u70	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u71	...do not be ridiculous if you participate in a weak scenario with a weak director. And at the moment, we all, both Parliament and the government, have been victims of a ridiculous scenario, of a weak scenario, of the one benefit of which it was a party leader to have five minutes of fame. Thanks to not following the rules, six minutes of fame. [[Laughter and single applause from the hall.]] However, this same fame, honourable Members, without wasting the expensive time of the MPs and the ministers, who currently have a far more important job than what we all expect and the Bulgarian people. It could have happened with one statement by the same leader on all media or with a simple statement, not to gather the entire National Assembly here. By the way, the only place where the rules are not followed again, the only place where the rules are not followed, this time not only in Stolipinovo, but also the part in BSP, because I see that 99% of the rest of the room at least even at this time is trying to comply with the measures and colleagues to sit farther apart from each other. Prime Minister, we're sorry we're involved in this thing. We don't know why you, who have the appearance of a strong man, strong physically, strong mentally... [[Laughter, applause and screams.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u72	Quiet, please! Colleagues, please be quiet in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u73	...strong physical, strong mental and strong political, what made us all lie at the whim of a fictional political leader and now participate in this circus? We at WALK are categorically opposed to this thing and we are telling you that we will no longer participate in such a thing. [[strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] . We also call on you to no longer comply. Yeah, I understand chivalry, yeah, party leader woman, yeah, once we respect her, but we all get funny... [[Laughter]] We respected her, let's not respect her anymore. [[Laughter]] However, in order to benefit from today's gathering here, we will tell you some real measures. One of them is the good measure 60/40, mass measure 60/40, can be corrected and we see that in other countries they do, as for certain sectors, which is not so loading, went to 80/20 and even 100/0.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u74	The weather, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u75	But that's not so many people. We don't say mass for everyone, but for those who are really forced to stay at home. Fixing the arms bills and, very importantly, while such things happen, we plead and insist, and we will remind you, the subsidies of the parties until the end of the term, while there is also a Bulgarian who does not live well, who suffers while there is also a company in Bulgaria that cannot work...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u76	The weather, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u77	...the subsidies of the Bulgarian parties to become zero leva by the end of the term of office. These are three of the things we are calling for, and we hope you do. Thank you and good luck to you all!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-04-28.u78	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. Colleagues, this has exhausted the procedure. Let us thank the Prime Minister and the members of the Council of Ministers for participating in today's hearing. The next plenary session will be further notified. I am adjourning today's plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
