ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u1	Hey, guys! Registration mode, please. Mr. Kirchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u2	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u3	Mr. Kasabov, I don't see him. Mr. Toshev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u4	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u5	Mr. Dinev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u6	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u7	Mrs. Kostadinova?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u8	(GERB, via internet platform for video conference): Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u9	Mr. Popov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u10	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u11	Mr. Gurnevsky?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u12	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u13	Hello! Please abort registration. There are 117 MPs registered in the hall and 6 registered remotely. We have a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Honourable Members, I propose that parliamentary controls begin immediately, as soon as the legislative part is completed. Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u14	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm doing a roll call check procedure before the upcoming vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u15	Thank you. Adlen Shukri Shevked is absent. Albena Vladimirova Naydenova- here Alexander Dimitrov Pawnov- absent Alexander Ivanov Matsurev- here Alexander Koychev Ivanov- here Aleksandar Mairov Siddi-here Alexander Nikolaev Sabanov- here Alexander Petrov Alexandrov- here Alexander Rumenov Nenkov- here Alexander Tihomirov Simov- absent Altimir Emilov Adamov- here Anastas Marinov Popdimitrov- absent Angel Iliev Isaev- absent Andrian Ivanov Raykov-- here. Anna Vasileva Alexandrova- here Anna Nikolaeva Slavova- absent Anton Konstantinov Kutev- absent Asya Atanasova Peeva- here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov- here Atanas Petrov Kostadinov- absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov is absent. Bogdan Emilov Botsev- absent Boris Vangelov Borisov- here Boris Petkov Kirchev (through the Internet) video conference platform)- here Boris Yankov Yachev- here Borislav Ivanov Borisov- here Boryana Lyubenova Georgieva- here Bürhan Ilyazov Abase - absent Valentin Alexiev Nikolov- here Valentin Georgiev Lambev- absent Valentin Ivanov Radev- here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov- absent Valentin Mirchov Milushev- here Valentina Alexandrova Naydenova- absent Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov- here Valeri Simeonov Simeonov- here Vasil Milanov Antonov- absent Vasil Tsvetkov- here Eyebrows Letif Rashidov here Velislava Ivanova Krasteva- absent Venka Kostadinova Stoyanova- here Vesela Nikolaeva Lecheva- absent Veselin Naydenov Mareshki - absent Veska Marinova Nencheva- absent Violeta Ruseva Jeleva - absent Vladimir Slavchev Valev- here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev (through the Internet) video conference platform)- here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov- here Galya Eneva Zaharieva- here Galya Stoyanova Zhelyazkova - here Georgi Georgiev Mihailov- absent Georgi Georgiev Stoilov- absent Georgi Dimitrov Andreev- absent Georgi Evdokiev Markov- absent Georgi Zaprev Dinev (through the Internet) video conference platform)- here Georgi Yordanov Yordanov- absent Georgi Kolev Kolev (through the Internet) video conference platform)- here Georgi Nikolov Vergiev- absent Georgi Stratilov Svilenski- absent Georgi Tenev Stankov- here Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski- absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov- absent Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova- absent Daniel Petkov Yordanov- absent Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova- here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva- here Daniela Dimitrova Maleshkova- here Daniela Dobreva Dimitrova- here Danka Evstatieva Zidarova-Lurtova- here Dean Stoyanov Stanchev- here Delyan Slavchev Peevski- absent Desislaw Petrov Taskov- absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov- absent Desislava Angelova Todorova- here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova- here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva (through an internet platform) video conference connection)- here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov is absent. Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov is absent Dilyan Stanimirov Dimitrov- here Dimitar Boychev Petrov- here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev- here Dimitar Velichkov Georgiev - absent Dimitar Ivanov Avramov- absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev- here Dimitar Ivanov Danchev- absent Dimitar Krumov Alexandrov- here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov- here Dimitar Stoyanov Stoyanov- here Dobrin Nenov Danev- absent Donka Dimova Simeonova- absent Dora Ilieva Yankova- absent Dora Stoyanova Hristova- absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev- absent Evgeni Genchev Budinov- here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva- here Evgenia Danielova Angelova- here Evdokia Slavchova Asenova- absent Elena Vladimirova Angelina - absent Elena Stefanova Pesheva - absent Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov- absent Emil Marinov Hristov- here Emil Seraphimov Tonchev- here Emilia Veselinova Staneva-Milkova- here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin is absent. Errol Osman Mehmet-- absent. Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev- absent Brought to you by Vassilev Iankov- here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov- absent Ivan Dimov Ivanov- absent Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev- absent Ivan Nikolov Mihovski- here Ivan Stefanov Valkov- here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov- absent Ivelina Veselinova Vasileva- here Ivo Angelov Hristov- absent Iglika Ivanova-Subeva- here Ilian Angelov Timchev- absent Imren Ismetova Mehmedova- absent Irena Metodieva Dimova- here Irena Todorova Anastasova- absent Honest Vasilev Veselinov- here Ihsan Halil Hakke is absent Yordan Apostolov-Apostolov is absent Yordan Iliev Yordanov- here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev- absent Kalin Dimitrov Vassilev- here Kalin Lubenov Velev- here Kalin Nikolov Popovski- here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva- here Kolyo Yordanov Milev - absent Konstantin Veselinov Popov (through the Internet) video conference platform)- here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev- here Krasimir Georgiev Tzipov- here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov- here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev- here Krasimir Mitkov Subev- here Krasimir Hristov Jankov- here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Cristina Maximova Sidorova- absent Krum Kostadinov Zarkov- absent Krastina Nikolova Takova- missing Lalo Georgiev Kirilov- here Lilyana Drumeva Radeva- here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov- here Lyubomir Boykov Bonev- absent Manoil Minchev Manev- here Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Margarita Nikolaeva Nikolova- here Maria Yordanova Ilieva- here Maria Yordanova Tsvetkova- here Maria Shtereva Belova- here Martin Stefanov Obreshkov- absent Menda Kirilova Stoyanova- here Milen Vassilev Mihov- here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova- here Milko Nedyalkov Nedyalkov- absent Mitko Kostadinov Polychronov- here Mikhail Ivaylov Hristov- absent Mladen Nikolov Shishkov- here Mustafa Sally Karadaye- absent Nadia Spasova Klisurska-Zekova - absent Nelly Ruskova Petrova- here Nigyar Sahlim Jaffer is absent Nikola Iliev Dinkov- absent Nikolay Asenov Tishev- absent Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov- here Nikolay Georgiev Ivanov- here Nikolay Dimitrov Penev- absent Nikolay Ivanov Tsonkov- absent Nikolay Krastev Boshkov- absent Nikolay Tsvetanov Sirakov- here Nikolina Panayotova Angelkova- here Nona Krasteva Yotova- missing Pavel Alexeyev Hristov- here Pavel Dimitrov Shopov- absent Petar Georgiev Kanev- absent Peter Hristov Petrov- here Plamen Dulchev Nunev- here Plamen Ivanov Manushev- here Plamen Tachev Petrov- here Plamen Trifonov Hristov- here Polina Alexandrova Shishkova- absent Polina Tsvetoslavova Tsankova-Hristova- here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev- absent Radoslava Plamen Chekanska- here Radostin Radoslavov Tanev- here Ralitsa Trilkova Dobreva- here Ramadan Bajram Atali is absent Rosen Zhivkov Ivanov- here Rosen Malinov Malinov - absent Rumen Vassilev Gechev- absent Rumen Nikolov Georgiev- absent Rumen Petrov Genov- here Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev- here Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova- missing Svetlana Angelova Naydenova- here Sevim Ismail Ali is absent Sergey Manushov Kichikov- absent Simeon Georgiev Naydenov- here Simeon Hristov Simeonov- absent Slavi Dichev Netzov- here Slavcho Stoev Atanasov- absent Smilyana Nikolova Niva-Krsteva- missing Spas Georgiev Gurnevski (through the Internet) video conference platform)- here Save Yanev Panchev- here Stanislav Ivanov Popov- here Stanislav Ivanov Stoyanov- here Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov- here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov- here Stanislava Krasimirova Stoyanova- here Stefan Apostolov - here Stefan Ivanov Burgeev - absent Stay Mitev Stoynov- here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev- absent Stoyan Radkov Bojinov- here Tanner Mehmed Ali is missing. Tanya Todorova Petrova- here Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov- absent Teodora Atanasova Halacheva- absent Teodora Radkova Georgieva- here Todor Baychev - absent Toma Lubomirov Bikov- here Thomas Nikolov Tomov- absent Filip Stefanov Popov - absent Hayri Recepov Sadakov- absent Halil Rexepov Letifov is absent Hamid Barry Hamid-- absent. Hassan Ahmed Ademov - absent Hristian Radev Mitev- here Hristo Georgiev Gajev-here Hristo Tanchev Prodanov- absent Flower Valcheva Karayancheva- absent Tsvetan Borisov Topchiev- absent Chavdar Yordanov Velinov- here Julian Krastev Angelov- here Yulian Mihailov Papasimov- here Yavor Bozhilov Notev- here Yavor Rumenov Bozhankov is absent. One hundred twenty-seven MPs, we have a quorum, we continue the meeting. I shall put the proposal to the vote. Cancel the vote. [[Definitions between Vice-Presidents Emil Hristov and Valeri Simeonov. Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u16	== sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u17	I announced it. The required number of votes are 63 on registration. Voting mode, please. Mr. Kirchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u18	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u19	Mr. Toshev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u20	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u21	Mr. Dinev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u22	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u23	Mrs. Kostadinova?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u24	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u25	Konstantin Popov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u26	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u27	Mr. Gurnevsky?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u28	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u29	Please call off the vote. They voted 113 MPs in the House plus 6 remote.. became 119: for 104 plus 6 remote................................................... it becomes 110............................................................................................................................................................................................... The motion is accepted. Let's continue with: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE CIVIL PROCEEDING CODEX. Importer of the Council of Ministers. But before him, a message: Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria in implementation of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces informs the National Assembly that it has, by its own orders, authorised the passage through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria of the non-military nature of an airplane with its crew of the members of the Air Force of the Republic of Azerbaijan. The authorisation shall be valid for transit through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria on flights via the Republic of Azerbaijan route, the Kingdom of Spain, the Republic of Azerbaijan from 15 to 21 December 2020, including, for the purpose of transporting military production from the Kingdom of Spain to the Republic of Azerbaijan. A plane with its crew is left to the Air Force of Ukraine. The authorisation shall be valid for the period from 14 to 30 December 2020 for a total of four flights for the purpose of transporting a Ukrainian national contingent to Kosovo. The orders issued are within the competence of the Minister of Defence, concerning the assessment of the military parameters of the country's transition to defence. On issues concerning export control and compliance with international plantation regimes mandatory for the Republic of Bulgaria, the country's airspace clearances should be granted to the State concerned following a positive opinion from the competent state authorities in this area, the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The notifications were received on 9 December 2020. No 003-09-101 and No 003-09-102 and submitted to the Defence Committee. Report of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Before I present to you the Commission Report, please ask for a procedure on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to allow Mr. Evgeni Stoyanov to be admitted to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u31	I shall put the proposal to the vote. They voted 121 MPs: 117, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u32	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 002-01-69, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 December 2020. At its meeting held on 9 December 2020, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 002-01-69, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 December 2020. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Justice: Mr. Evgeni Stoyanov The bill was presented by Mr. Stoyanov, who pointed out that it establishes rules governing the exercise of procedural rights in electronic form and added that the bill ensures the introduction of the Single Information System of the Courts, as well as the functionality of the Single Portal for Electronic Justice under art. 360c of the Law on the Judiciary. He added that it enables procedural actions to be carried out in electronic form and to draw up electronic court cases, specifying that the portal will be accessible after initial registration and that participants in the judicial proceedings will be able to receive electronic communications, subpoenas and papers, including notification of certain procedural actions. The amendments to the Civil Procedure Code shall specify the provisions for the service of messages and subpoenas at the e-mail address via the Single E-Justice Portal, a qualified e-mail service or an e-mail address. Only electronic service of credit and financial institutions, including those making recovery of claims against consumers, insurance and reinsurance companies, traders supplying energy and gas or providing postal, electronic, communications, water supply or sewerage services, notaries and private contractors, public offices and municipalities shall be envisaged. It is envisaged that the service of communications, subpoenas and documents of a lawyer will be carried out through the Single e-Justice Portal, creating an obligation for the lawyer to register and maintain a profile in the portal. It is envisaged that procedural actions and the issuing of judicial acts should be carried out in electronic form and that the parties to the proceedings are subject to an obligation to indicate and to an e-mail address. The arrangements for payment of fees and other obligations to the court shall also be precise. The amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure regulate the preparation of legal acts in electronic form, the creation of electronic documents in the Single Information System of the Courts and its verification with a qualified electronic signature. The exercise of procedural rights and the carrying out of procedural acts in electronic form by the parties shall be laid down in detail, providing that the participants in the process may make requests, observations and objections, and that they may appeal to the acts of the court by electronic means. The rules for holding video-conference court meetings shall be revised when taking measures for non-reserved detention in pre-trial proceedings. The bill governs the calling and notification by electronic means to the victim and to the participants in the process and complements the rules for sending a report of a crime committed. A legal opportunity shall be created for the defendant to participate in the case by means of a video conference in the event of declared emergency, martial law, disaster, epidemic, other force majeure or at the written request of the defendant and his defender, as well as at the discretion of the court. The bill provides for amendments to the Health Act aimed at clarifying the procedures for compulsory accommodation and treatment, allowing the person whose accommodation is requested to be able to participate in the case and through a video conference, and this procedure will only be carried out when the person's health is not allowed to appear at the hearing, as well as under declared emergency, martial law, disaster, epidemic or other force majeure. The Law also proposes amendments to the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Judiciary, which ensure the possibility of the application of e-Justice by both the judicial authorities and the other participants in the judicial proceedings. Mr. Stoyanov drew attention to the envisaged deadline for the entry into force of the provisions introducing electronic justice under the Law on the Judiciary and stressed that consent would be a guiding principle in the exercise of rights in criminal proceedings. In the discussion of the Bill took part the MPs Christian Mitev, Smilyana Krasteva and Yavor Notev. Mr. Mitev expressed his support to the Bill and added that with its support it will stimulate the exercise of procedural rights in electronic form. Mr. Notev and Mrs. Krasteva expressed their reservations to the Bill and discussed the technical security of the participants in the process of exercising procedural rights in electronic form. As a result of the vote held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 12 votes for the Council of Ministers, without the opposition, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Law amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 002-01-69, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 December 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u33	Thank you. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor for speeches, colleagues. Mrs. Niva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u34	Honourable Members of the National Assembly! We at BSP are for e-Justice. We support the philosophy and spirit of the Law on Changes in the PPC and PPC, but we have abstained in the Commission. This is how we will vote today because some of the norms, especially those affecting the changes to the Criminal Procedure Code, instead of solving the problems with the speed of justice, I think they will create new problems, and they are related to the fundamental rights of Bulgarian citizens. Between first and second readings we will bring our changes to this. That is why, at this stage, we are abstentioning.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u35	Thank you. Are there lines? Are there any other speeches? Colleagues, I do not see anyone else who would like to speak on this point. I close the debates and put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 002-01-69, submitted by the Council of Ministers. They voted 118 MPs: 80 against 1, abstention 37. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly make a procedure for the period of the newly voted bill between first and second readings to be reduced to four days.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u37	Thank you. I shall put the proposal to the vote. Vote 109 MPs: 79 against 19, abstentioned 11. The motion is accepted. We continue with the Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Credit Line Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria as a creditor and the Single Resolution Board as a borrower. Who will present the report? Mrs. Angelova, you have the floor. [[Reference between the President and the rapporteur.]] Yes, we have an open debate procedure, so we are starting the debate. Only the people's representative Mr. Gechev has spoken. Are there any other statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a bill for ratification of the Credit Line Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria as a creditor and the Single Resolution Board as a borrower, No 002-02-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers. Vote 119 MPs: 114, no objection, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u38	Dear Mr. President, I ask for a procedure to vote on the newly adopted Law on ratification of the Credit Line Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria as a creditor and the Single Resolution Board as a borrower and a second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u39	Thank you. I shall put the proposal to the vote. They voted 121 MPs: 115, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u40	Thank you. THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Credit Line Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria as a creditor and the Single Resolution Board as a borrower. A single member. It ratifies the Credit Line Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria as a creditor and the Single Resolution Board as a borrower concluded on 7 October 2020. Final provision. It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u41	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the name of the Law, the content of the article alone; the name of the section.. Voted 118 MPs: 114, no objection, abstention 4. The texts put to the vote have been adopted. Let's continue with: THE LAW FOR RATICING THE ESTIMATION OF THE AGENCY FOR NUCLEAR ENERGY TO THE ECONOMIC COOPERATION AND DEVELOPMENT ORGANIZATION. Importer of the Council of Ministers. You have the floor, Mr. Nikolov, with the Energy Commission Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Statute of the Nuclear Energy Agency to the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development No 002-02-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 November 2020. At its regular meeting on 3 December 2020, the Energy Commission discussed and voted on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Statute of the Nuclear Energy Agency of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, No 002-02-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 November 2020. The meeting was attended by: Ms. Temenuzhka Petkova, Minister, Mrs. Veneta Tsvetkova, Director of the Energy Projects and International Cooperation Directorate. On the part of the importer, the reasons for the bill were presented by the Minister of Energy Ms. Temenuzhka Petkova. She pointed out that the Nuclear Energy Agency is an intergovernmental specialised agency of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development between countries seeking excellence in the field of nuclear safety, technology, science, legislation and environmental and economic life issues. The mission of the Nuclear Energy Agency is to assist its Member States in maintaining and further developing, through international cooperation, the scientific, technological and legal foundations necessary for the safe, environmentally friendly and economical use of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes. The Statute of the Nuclear Energy Agency was established by a Decision of the Council of the Organisation for European Economic Cooperation, currently the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, adopted on 20 December 1957. It founded the Nuclear Energy Agency of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. The objectives of the organisation, its structure, the competences of the Management Committee, the tasks it sets itself, the functions and the mechanism for joining it shall be defined. The membership of the Republic of Bulgaria in the Agency will contribute to the achievement of our country's key policies in the field of energy through exchange of information, experience, technical expertise and best practices, as well as to the implementation of the target set in the approved roadmap for the Republic of Bulgaria's accession to the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. Membership in the Nuclear Energy Agency of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development is linked to the payment of annual membership fees. The amount for membership imports shall be indexed. For 2021, the annual contribution amounts to 100 thousand. EUR for membership of the Nuclear Energy Agency and 6 thousand. EUR for participation in the Nuclear Energy Agency Information Bank. The cost of the annual contribution shall be at the expense of the adopted budget of the Ministry of Energy for the relevant year. Following the end of the discussion and on the basis of the vote held, the Energy Committee with 17 votes in favour, without abstention and abstention, proposed that the National Assembly adopt, at first reading, a Draft for the ratification of the Statute of the Nuclear Energy Agency to the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, No 002-02-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 November 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u43	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance Mrs. Ilieva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Budget and Finance on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Statute of the Nuclear Energy Agency of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, No 002-02-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 November 2020. At a meeting held on 9 December 2020, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that bill. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova, Minister of Energy. The Nuclear Energy Agency (AEA) is an intergovernmental specialised agency of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (DCI) for cooperation between countries seeking excellence in nuclear safety, technology, science, legislation and environmental and economic life. The mission of the Nuclear Energy Agency is to assist its Member States in maintaining and further developing, through international cooperation, the scientific, technological and legal foundations necessary for the safe, environmentally friendly and economical use of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes. The Statute of the Nuclear Energy Agency is established by a Decision of the Council of the Organisation for European Economic Cooperation, currently adopted on 20 December 1957. It bases the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development's Nuclear Energy Agency. The purpose of the organisation, its structure, the competences of the Management Committee, the tasks it sets itself, its functions and the mechanism of joining it shall be determined. The membership of the Republic of Bulgaria in the Agency will contribute to the achievement of our country's key policies in the field of energy through the exchange of information, experience, technical expertise and best practices, as well as to the implementation of the target set in the approved roadmap for the activities of the Republic of Bulgaria in joining the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, to Decision No 789 of the Council of Ministers of 2017 with the main activity of joining new working bodies of the Organisation. Membership in the Nuclear Energy Agency of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development is linked to the payment of annual membership fees. The amount for membership shall be indexed annually. For 2021, the annual contribution amounts to 100 thousand. EUR or 195 thousand. BGN 583. for membership in the Nuclear Energy Agency and 6 thousand EUR or 11 thousand. BGN 735. to participate in the Nuclear Energy Agency Information Bank. The cost of the annual contribution shall be at the expense of the adopted budget of the Ministry of Energy for the relevant year. The procedure for the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria to the Nuclear Energy Agency of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development shall end after a letter has been received from the Bulgarian Government, with which our country undertakes to comply with the Statute of the Nuclear Energy Agency and the rules and procedures of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, preceded by the completion of the internal legal requirements for ratification of the founding act of the Nuclear Energy Agency by the National Assembly pursuant to art. 85, para. 1, t. 2 and 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Following the discussion of the draft, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: with 17 votes for abstention and non-restraint, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote the Draft for ratification of the Statute of the Nuclear Energy Agency to the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, No 002-02-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 November 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Ilieva. With the Foreign Policy Committee report, Mr. Manushev will introduce us. You have the floor, Mr. Manushev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u46	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I present to you: ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Foreign Policy on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Statute of the Nuclear Energy Agency of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, No 002-02-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 November 2020. At its regular meeting held on 9 December 2020, the Committee on Foreign Policy examined a Draft Law on the ratification of the Statute of the Nuclear Energy Agency of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, No 002-02-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 November 2020. The ratification of the constituent act and the Statute of the Nuclear Energy Agency by law shall be in accordance with art. 85, para. 1, t. 2 et c. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Through the Law on ratification Bulgaria undertakes to comply with the rules and procedures of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development in the field of nuclear energy, nuclear safety, technology, science, environmental and economic life issues. For its part, the Nuclear Energy Agency shall assist its Member States in maintaining further development through international cooperation in the field of legal, technological and scientific foundations necessary for the safe, environmentally friendly and economical use of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes. The Statute of the Nuclear Energy Agency of 20 December 1957 is the basic document for the establishment of the Nuclear Energy Agency of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (DCI). The accession of the Republic of Bulgaria to this body of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (DCI) will contribute significantly to the acceleration of the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria to the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (DCI), as enshrined in the Decision of the Council of Ministers No 789 of 2017. Membership in the Nuclear Energy Agency requires payment of annual membership fees, which are indexed annually. For 2021 this membership import to Bulgaria would be 100 000 euro (195 583 BGN) and 6000 EUR (11 735 BGN) to participate in the Nuclear Energy Agency Information Bank. These costs will be at the expense of the adopted budget of the Ministry of Energy for the relevant year. On the basis of the reasons for the draft and the 13-vote vote on the draft, without votes, the Foreign Policy Commission proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for ratification of the Statute of the Nuclear Energy Agency to the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, No 002-02-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 November 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u47	Thank you, Mr. Manushev. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor for speeches, colleagues. I don't see any speeches. I am closing the debates and voting on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Statute of the Nuclear Energy Agency to the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, No 002-02-21, tabled by the Council of Ministers. They voted 111 MPs: 109, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Mr. Nikolov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm doing procedure on the grounds of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to proceed to the second reading of the Draft Law on the ratification of the Statute of the Nuclear Energy Agency of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development by No 002-02-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 November 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u49	Thank you. I shall put the proposal to the vote. Vote 104 MPs: for 103, there is no abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u50	Thank you. THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Statute of the Nuclear Energy Agency to the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development A single member. It ratifies the Charter of the Nuclear Energy Agency of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. The law was passed by the forty-fourth National Assembly of... 2020 and stamped with the official seal of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u51	Thank you. Statements, colleagues, texts? I can't see. I put to the vote the name of the Law and the content of a member solely by importer. They voted 106 MPs: for 105, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. With this we ended with the legislative part of the National Assembly's Work Programme today. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u52	There is one more point in the program "The Youth Report."
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u53	No, there's no other point.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u54	There's the Youth Report!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u55	Take a look at the Program. This is the Programme for today. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Colleagues, take a look at the program. It's in the program for today! [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Go ahead, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The points that have been pointed out and fixed today are, as you said, 1, 2 and 3, but there is one point left in the weekly Programme on Wednesday, which is the Youth Report. And I think we should move on to this point in order to finish the program as we have always done, and then it's parliamentary control. Isn't that right, colleagues? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u57	I'll take the liberty of disagreeing. [[(Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.) President Emil Hristov and MPs Georgi Svilenski and Tasco Ermenkov make specifics with microphones off.)]] Colleagues, the Youth Report will be re-entered into our Work Programme, but for next week, it will not be reviewed today. We're just sticking to the program. New questions concerning the period from 4 December to 10 December 2020: There has been a question by the National Representative Dora Yankova to Kostadin Angelov, Minister of Health, concerning the policy of the Ministry of Health, so that the health system can acquire air medical transport. The plenary sitting should be answered on 18 December 2020. Written answers for service by: - Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov on a question from the MPs Stoyan Mirchev and Yavor Bojankov. Mr. Bojankov, contains on the disk the necessary data to the answer; - Minister of Justice Desislava Ahladova on a question from the National Representative Boris Yachev; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski; - Minister of Interior Hristo Terziyski on a question from the MPs Georgi Svilenski, Dimitar Danchev; - Minister of Interior Hristo Terziyski on a question from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski; - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov on two issues from the National Representative Hristo Gazhev; - Deputy Prime Minister of Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva to two questions from the MP Christian Vigenin; - Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy and Tourism Minister Mariana Nikolova on a question from the National Representative Teodora Halacheva; - Minister of Culture Boyl Banov on two questions from the National Representative Teodora Halacheva; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva on four questions from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov to a question from the MPs Georgi Gokov and Georgi Yordanov; - Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on two questions from the National Representative Donka Simeonova; - Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov to two questions from the National Representative Evdokiya Asenova; - Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev on a question from the National Representative Nikola Dinkov; - Minister of Environment and Lead Emil Dimitrov on a question from the National Representative Nikolay Tishev; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva on a question from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova, Rumen Georgiev and Nikolay Penev; - Minister of Economy Lachezar Borisov on a question from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova, Daniel Yordanov, Georgi Stoilov and Nikolay Penev; - Minister of Interior Hristo Terziyski on a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva on a question from the MPs Mihail Hristov, Lalo Kirilov, Chavdar Velinov, Krasimir Yankov, Georgi Andreev, Nikolai Ivanov and Dimitar Stoyanov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva on a question from the MPs Nadia Klisurska and Violeta Jeleva; - Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy and Tourism Minister Mariana Nikolova on a question from the National Representative Nadia Klisurska. Let's continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. Mrs. Zaharieva is already here and we start with two questions from the MPs Valeri Jablyanov, Krasimir Yankov, Nikolay Ivanov, Dimitar Stoyanov, Georgi Andreyev, Lalo Kirilov, Chavdar Velinov on the development of Bulgarian-North Macedonian relations in the context of the negotiations on the membership of the Republic of Northern Macedonia in the European Union. Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u58	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! After almost two months of waiting and chaotic talks with representatives of the North Macedonian diplomacy, politics and state, with special envoys, with unclear status, with a vague Bulgarian position, with constantly evolving demands from Northern Macedonia, we have come to the logical result of its failed pre-negotiation contract to complete blocking of bilateral relations, to the need for a Bulgarian veto in the negotiation process regarding the accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia to the European Union and to a vague Bulgarian position: what do we want from the Republic of Northern Macedonia today? Dear Minister, the treaty, which was signed two years ago and ratified with so much emotion, did not settle key issues of bilateral relations, the issue of the minority claims of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, the issue of hate speech, the question of the status of the Interdepartmental Commission, which must clarify the disputed historical issues. This commission in the Treaty is marked as a body that is not bound by any time-limits, the results of its work are in no way bound by the Bulgarian agreement on membership or veto of Northern Macedonia in the European Union. I ask you with the following question: what are the open questions today between the Republic of Northern Macedonia and the Republic of Bulgaria, in what way do you think these issues can be settled, because to this day there are conflicting views? Based on the implementation of the treaty so far, I hear the position that Macedonia is not fulfilling the treaty...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u59	Finish, Mr. Jablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u60	I'm done. On the basis of Annex to the current treaty, a position expressed by IMRO on the basis of Annex to the treaty, expressed in the negotiation process by Mr. Zoran Zaev, on the basis of Bulgaria's framework position for the pre-accession negotiations of the Republic of Macedonia, on the basis of the Declaration of the Bulgarian Parliament. On which basis, Mrs. Zaharieva, will bilateral talks be held in the future? How do you think and how do you see those issues that seem to be unsolvable between the two countries today? Since this is about the peace and prosperity of the Balkan Peninsula and of two brotherly people, I hope you are aware of the responsibility of your government, which has failed with the opposition on this matter. I'm waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u61	Mr. Jablyanov, thank you. A minute and a half over time. I hope you don't protest, they'll be at the expense of your line. The next question is from Mr. Anton Kutev and MP Zhelyo Boychev on the official position of the Republic of Bulgaria at the start of negotiations between the European Union and Northern Macedonia. You have the floor, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u62	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, colleagues! The colleague Zablyanov defined the legal framework and basically the situation we are in on this issue. I would like to continue on this occasion without going back to what you said with something that seems particularly important to me. Our specific question is: what is the official position of the Republic of Bulgaria at the start of negotiations between the European Union and Northern Macedonia? It was set to you nearly a month ago and then it was much more up-to-date than now because we asked it before it came up with any positions, and we've already gone out with them. However, I have a problem with positions, and that is why I would like to return you to this conversation. Some of the things my colleague Zablyanov said, but my question from there is: what has Bulgaria done during Borisov's reign over the past 10 years so that ultimately relations with Macedonia can reach some better phase? What happened during this time, so that we can process public opinion in Bulgaria and Macedonia, does the process of bringing two countries closer together depend predominantly on the peoples? What did the three governments of Boyko Borisov do to somehow make the Macedonians realize that on the other side of the border they have friends, not enemies? I would like to remind you that in the 20s and 30s in Bulgaria, when Bulgaria was a terribly poor country, dozens of schools were built in the Western outskirts with Bulgarian money across the border. The then Bulgarian governments, with all their poverty after a national catastrophe, had the awareness that they had to spend money on it in the Western suburbs and people on the other side of the border to have a Bulgarian self-consciousness through the construction of schools. Let's start from this: how many schools have we built and if we haven't built schools, what have we done in the last 10 years so that somehow the process of convergence between peoples, between peoples in Bulgaria and Macedonia can develop?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u63	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Dear Mrs. Zaharieva, you have the floor for a general answer to your questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u64	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will still express my gratitude to Parliament. I think this is very important because at least on this topic something that has become clear since yesterday and at the meetings of the special representative of the government of the Republic of Northern Macedonia for Bulgaria that Bulgaria has a single foreign policy on this topic, something that has become clear with the unanimous approval of the Declaration of Parliament, which was proposed by the government and approved by the parliament, where the conditions of Bulgaria are very clearly defined. There is no bigger tribune than the National Assembly. So they are clear to the Bulgarian people and to our friends and neighbors in the Republic of Northern Macedonia with a written document of at least one year, but our claims to the unsatisfactory implementation of the 2017 Treaty are actually from much earlier. In a number of bilateral meetings, including the Intergovernmental Commission meeting of last year, a protocol was adopted and we agreed on concrete steps to speed up the implementation of this treaty. In the framework of the discussions on the negotiations between the Republic of Northern Macedonia and the European Union on a negotiating framework, we have sent an explanatory memorandum to all institutions, instructions are given to all Bulgarian ambassadors who have held meetings in the capitals of the Member States of the European Union in order to know in detail the position of Bulgaria. The most important problem, something I don't know why is not clear, or you are not aware of, is the failure to comply with this contract. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Can you please not interrupt me? I listened to you carefully. Mr. Chairman!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u65	Colleagues, I really...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u66	In this treaty, Mr. Zablyanov, there is a very clear mandate of the Commission. In this contract, Mr. Zablyanov, there is a text about hate speech, and very clear. You misinterpreted that you wouldn't. In this treaty, Mr. Zablyanov, there is also a text on unilateral obligations by the Republic of Northern Macedonia that there will be no claim for the existence of the so-called Macedonian minority in Bulgaria. So read the Treaty carefully, there are these texts. In a number of texts, not only in the part of the Historical Commission, the most famous in the public space is the unilateral termination of the work of the Committee on Historical Affairs by Skopje, arguing that elections are coming. This committee was created precisely so as not to politicize open issues regarding history and to leave the specialists in the field to find texts and to understand the change of curriculum. Unfortunately, the suspension unilaterally, and with the argument that elections are coming, means.. and this is our conclusion that the Commission's work on the other side is being politicised. In Bulgaria last year there were twice elections and in no way have we thought about even proposing to our Commissioners to stop her work. Not only that, but the Bulgarian government in no way interferes with the work of this committee. There is a failure in the language of hatred, it is prominent and not only from now on, by the Republic of Northern Macedonia. There is a delayed implementation with regard to infrastructure projects.Something very important, especially on Corridor No 8 in the part of the railway is almost at the stage of zero implementation and so on. [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u67	Mr. Jablyanov, I'm going to ask you again to be quiet.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u68	Since the bilateral meeting of the Commission on the Implementation of the Treaty between the Governments, the Republic of Northern Macedonia has not taken any action to start implementing the Treaty. On the contrary, a real anti-Bulgarian hysteria broke out in the country. It was quite strong and then, when the National Assembly adopted this decision and the framework position, it continued to rely that Bulgaria will once again close its eyes to what is happening there, or will continue to be extremely benevolent, we are, and at the moment, Bulgarian flags were burning, Bulgarian monuments were destroyed, including non-political ones, lists of people with Bulgarian self-consciousness were spread, with Bulgarian citizenship calling for self-robbing and so on. For us are enough examples that our neighbor needs to overcome a number of stereotypes so that she can walk confidently on the road to accession. A country which does not comply with its contracts, and this is not the first time the 1999 declaration was also declared invalid for them by a next government, since it has not been ratified, was only a declaration and was denied its implementation even though it was approved by governments. Instead of accepting our extended hand, Skopje has made a great effort, believe me, to distort Bulgaria's position. We shouldn't go into explanatory regimes. That's my call. We have explained and continue to explain our position on the reason for Bulgaria's inability to approve the negotiating framework. I'll explain one more time. In the negotiating framework Bulgaria has asked for a few clear things. First of all, good neighbourly relations are a horizontal criterion in Maastricht. A roadmap to monitor the implementation of the Treaty. When talking about the use of language wording, the wording of the 2017 Treaty should be respected. It was the same in the 1999 Declaration. We continue to negotiate because, as you rightly said, we are neighbouring countries. At least on the part of the Bulgarian people I think there are extremely friendly feelings for citizens on the other side of the border, and I hope that they will remain, despite the disgusting campaign of hatred and hate speech on the other side. What has Bulgaria done? Bulgaria, Mr. Kutev, was the first country to put first the European perspective of the Western Balkan countries during its presidency after 15 years. Not only did she put it first, but she managed to unblock more than two years of blocked Council conclusions on the topic of enlargement. For the first time after 15 years in Sofia a European Union summit was held, leaders of the Western Balkans, in which a Sofia Declaration was adopted, the implementation of which are clear steps for cohesion, the implementation of which continue to this day. The Bulgarian government was the government. This is one of my next questions, which for the first time created a social program for our communities abroad or to support and finance the associations of Bulgarians abroad. With regard to our Development Programme, I have no data here at the moment, we have funded dozens of projects, including for the repair of schools, health care, NGOs and other infrastructure projects in the Republic of Northern Macedonia, and not only for all countries in the Western Balkans. I do not agree at all that the Bulgarian governments with Prime Minister Borisov did not make any efforts and did not pay attention to this area............... not only is it not true, but these governments are the governments that have done the most in this direction. So we will continue to be benevolent, but I think what needs to happen is the passions on the other side of the border to calm down and start negotiations because we have not stopped negotiations at different levels. But then, when it was basically heard, we wouldn't do that, there was no way to negotiate. Now I hope, after the calm of passions, if they calm down, it depends on them, and with a rational look, we begin to talk about what the Government of the Republic of Northern Macedonia will do so that it will begin to implement the Treaty, stop the language of hatred and behave as a true candidate for a member of the European Union. I'm going to say a few words about protocol or annex. We had proposed two options. The negotiating framework is clear. But the second option was a protocol to the Treaty, because the accusations from Skopje that we do not recognise identity, the right to self-determination, language and other things have simply crossed any boundaries. We told them well then, here is a draft bilateral protocol to begin a discussion. This has also been refused at the beginning, and after which, as you have quoted, there have been statements by Prime Minister Zaev that they are prone to such a document. The opinion and position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is that good neighbourhood should become part of the negotiating framework because these are the strongest guarantees for Bulgaria that the signed documents will be implemented and monitored throughout the negotiation process with clear criteria for progress. I would remind you that in the March decision to start negotiations with the Republic of Northern Macedonia and Albania, there is a very clear text on tangible progress in implementing the Treaty with Bulgaria. So my appeal to colleagues in Skopje is: less emotions and more pragmatism and a return to fulfilling bilateral treaties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. The line is Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u70	And attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u71	No, no attitude, just a line. The attitude is when asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u72	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, your response has been sufficiently extended and has exceeded the prescribed time in the Rules. But I think that the issue is so important and so little is discussed essentially the Bulgarian position that the Bulgarian Parliament remained in the shadows when our position was clarified and this is not in favor of the Bulgarian diplomacy or the government. But that's yours. I guess there's still a lot of rough days ahead of us in this direction. I don't want to be black-eyed. About the Treaty, as you insist on specificity, art. 11, p. 5 says that nothing in the Constitution of the Republic of Macedonia can be interpreted as a basis for intervention in the internal affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria in order to protect the status and rights of persons who are not citizens of the Republic of Macedonia. If this is what you think protects us from minority claims, I leave it to the conscience of the foreign minister of the Republic of Bulgaria. As far as our overall position is concerned. It clearly needs rethinking, not insisting on fulfilling the Treaty, as it lacks deadlines for fulfilling one or another commitment by a Macedonian party. Our position is not bound by an agreement in the Panel. This panel may meet for 15 years and the infrastructure projects entered into the Treaty will be completed by 2050. This is in no way a matter of discussion between the two countries. How will the failure of the Treaty be explained then? Another important question I have that you have not been able to explain in any way. The question of the so-called road map that came up. What is a road map? The roadmap is additional conditions for the implementation of the Treaty, which should be recognised by a Macedonian country. What is the status of such a document, Madam Minister? None at all! Because those deadlines that were to be included in the Treaty, you are now proposing that they be exported to some road map. I would like to call on you to say that each of us is really concerned about both the good neighbourly relations and the future of Bulgaria, just make sure that its commitments from the Macedonian side are bound by international legal documents and not by interviews and personal positions of politicians from one country or from the other. Within 10 days, the Macedonian Prime Minister gave two mutually exclusive interviews for the BGNES Agency and the other to Macedonian media. As Macedonian politicians themselves said, one is for the Bulgarians, the other for internal use. But this position I see that you agree with, the question is, how are these commitments of the Republic of Northern Macedonia to be bound not simply in the negotiation process but to be bound as bilateral relations, as firm commitments? What has been achieved in the Spanish Treaty and which has not been achieved in our treaty, which, on top of that, when it was signed, you did not know what the state will be called after three months of signing the Treaty! As it turned out in the meantime, the gaps are present, the whole of Bulgaria sees them and the bilateral relations are suffering from them at the moment. I hope you can give a clear account of the government's complete fiasco in this process. And because there are tough negotiations ahead, Bulgaria is really entering into an election situation and, of course, with an unclear outcome, then it should be the common position with the documents, with the negotiations with the Republic of Macedonia being communicated now, to be announced in an appropriate way...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u73	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. Finish.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u74	Yes, I'm done, Mr. Chairman. ...and be bound by international legal documents. This cannot be a discussion, it cannot be a personal opinion of the Macedonian Prime Minister, it cannot be a result of the visit of special envoys. Because if this is about special envoys, who are our special envoys in Skopje?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u75	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u76	And second of all...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u77	That's how you ended up thinking.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u78	...how many special envoys from Skopje can come, as up until now there have been No 1.. Georgievski, No 2.. Buckovski, and who is the third one we are waiting for? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u79	Dear Mrs. Zaharieva, the doppelganger?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u80	I fully agree, Mr. Zablyanov, that only interviews or public announcements, which on top of that, I agree with you for the second time that they contradict each other, is extremely insufficient. There are international legal documents and this is the Treaty. He's such a document. With regard to time limits, you yourself understand that for hate speech the term is constant. With regard to a specific infrastructure project in a bilateral contract with the idea of being permanent, there is no way to list all of them. And with regard to the lack of claims on minorities, it should be a permanent one year, not only will you have no claims, and then you will have. As far as the Historical Commission is concerned, I think it is a fundamental question for you, with regard to it there was when we talked and discussed the Treaty, including in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs itself, really debate on whether we should set a deadline. If we had set a 2-year deadline, which had ideas, after all the Bulgarian side and the experts decided that two years had passed, it would have been extremely profitable for the Republic of Northern Macedonia to stop the work of this committee something that they actually wanted. So, in fact, the interests of the Bulgarian side assumed that there would be no time limit for the Commission to work, then to disband, and to have the absolute reason to end it, but rather something that the Commission is doing the annual programme to define and adopt its own committee. The work of the Intergovernmental Commission is actually to evaluate the previous years and to set deadlines for the next one. So most deadlines in this contract are constant.. we must constantly develop and improve the infrastructure between us, we must constantly develop good relations in education, culture and science. Therefore, this year, in fact, governments must adopt specific programmes. We must constantly refrain from the language of hatred on both sides. The claims of the so-called Macedonian minority in Bulgaria must cease constantly. There can be no time limits under these provisions. We must constantly try to improve and increase tourists between the two countries and so on. [[Replications of MPs from BSP for Bulgaria and MP Valeri Zablyanov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u81	Mr. Zablyanov, you're playing the naughty student.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u82	So a contract can always be sought if the goal is to look for a way not to run. Including Prespa, there are deadlines that, according to my information, have passed, passed and have not ended the performances on them. More importantly, this is our call, with action to prove that they will carry it out. I fully agree with you. The words are not enough, we have a Treaty with clear provisions, we also have a protocol approved by both governments, as a result of which not only does the work of the Treaty speed up, but also the work of the Historical Commission has been suspended unilaterally. With regard to the special envoys, Bulgaria does not need to have one because we have an ambassador, we have enough diplomats and we do not intend to appoint a special envoy for the Republic of Northern Macedonia. We have diplomats, we have directors, we have ambassadors. It's a government decision. Mr. Georgievski pointed out several times that it was on his initiative and that he represented no one of course that I accepted it, a friend of Bulgaria and a former prime minister. In fact, this is the first special envoy, official, declared official by the government, Mr. Buckovski, who was visiting Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u83	Thank you. The line on the second question is Mr. Boychev. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Zaharieva, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am beginning with the fact that, of course, Bulgaria has great interest in the common future of the Republic of Northern Macedonia in the European Union. I understand that our programming position is quite complex and we are not in a situation where we exchange a future for a past. But, Mrs. Zaharieva, the questions are much more than the answers you give here today. I'll start with them and please clarify them. When exactly did we find out that the contract wasn't being executed? When did it become clear to us that the government of Northern Macedonia has no intention of fulfilling the commitments under this treaty? Because if you were as active as you've been active in the last month or two, the result could have been different. And if there is a basis for the Historical Commission and you concentrate a great deal of your attention on it and the refusal of the Macedonian side to work, I ask: what have we done with the General Commission on the implementation of the treaty, and why is there not a single meeting of this committee? I want to see what was the efforts of the Bulgarian government in support of the Bulgarian entrepreneurs, the Bulgarian business? What is the amount of Bulgarian investments in the Republic of Northern Macedonia? Where were the big promises and the hugs between the Bulgarian Prime Minister and Zoran Zaev and the result of them? When exactly did we find out that there was no result? On the other hand, other investments are constantly coming in there, not to mention which countries. My next question: what have we done to oppose this campaign that is going on, including our country? Did you know that there has been surveillance: only in the last month or two around 10.. 15 thousand publications in Macedonian media and hundreds of publications in the international press against our country? I'd like to know if we're aware of who's organizing these publications. And the more important question: what is the answer from the Bulgarian side to resist and not to fall into this situation that I think we are in isolation in the European Union? What is the policy towards people who have declared Bulgarian self-consciousness in the Republic of Northern Macedonia? Did you know that we have 138 thousand who have taken Bulgarian passports, 36 thousand who are in the process of obtaining a Bulgarian passport? These are issues on which there is no active action by the Bulgarian government. It's kind of not normal after all these years that we...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u85	Thank you, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u86	...we support constantly, so that there is no economic project.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u87	Finish your thought.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u88	I conclude by saying that my feeling is that we have no strategy towards the Republic of Northern Macedonia. And, Madam Minister, without knowing what we want, to have a clear tactic...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u89	Thank you, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u90	...and convince our partners in our position, we will not be able to achieve the necessary result.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u91	Dear Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u92	I will not answer these questions because I do not know what this procedure is, Mr. Chairman. That's a question, isn't it? It's not asking. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u93	Parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u94	I don't mind you having a hearing, but that's the answer to a question. I don't know what this procedure is. I'll just say: Mr. Boychev, you, if you don't know what politics are, I know.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u95	And it's a secret.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u96	It's not a secret. I think you also voted for last year's declaration, so read it and see it. It is proposed by the Bulgarian government and I think that things are very clearly scheduled there. Recall the decision of parliament and the Bulgarian framework position and there things are clear. Under the treaty, including all spheres of cooperation, I also think it was clear what the Bulgarian government is up to. Yeah, you're right about the investors. This is one of our main criticisms of the implementation of the treaty. We've collected enough material. Bulgarian representatives and diplomats at the Embassy in Skopje. We have also sent to the European institutions fracking cases of creating administrative obstacles to Bulgarian investors in Skopje. Absolutely for every case we know about and for which we have signaled, we require constant information and we insist. That's one of the reasons, by the way, why we said no. It is not only the Historical Commission, but because the Bulgarian business is somehow deterred and created administrative obstacles to develop and create jobs there, trade or other cases. I think that for us, at least as a government, our policy is clear, and I'm willing to explain to everyone separately, if it isn't.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u97	Can I have a procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u98	Procedure for me?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u99	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u100	Okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u101	Dear Mr. Chairman, my procedure is as follows: We are in parliamentary control where the ministers answer questions from MPs. Since the Minister said she has no intention of answering or understanding what we're asking her, and since we've been waiting a few months...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u102	To me, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u103	First, the question was to the Prime Minister, and then transferred to her to hear that...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u104	Where do you see me here?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u105	...will not answer us and do not want or understand what we ask, but Bulgarian diplomacy is in a more difficult situation than it seems.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u106	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u107	Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u108	We are continuing with the next question.. a question by the National Representative Aleksandar Paunov concerning the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the three seas initiative. You have the floor, Mr. Pawnov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, on 2 September 2020, the Council of Ministers adopted two decisions with which, firstly, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva was appointed as national coordinator by the Bulgarian side for the three seas initiative; second, the participation of the Bulgarian Development Bank was approved in the Investment Fund to the three seas initiative with a contribution of 20 million. Euros. A few days ago, it became clear that on the issue of Bulgaria's participation in the political project Three seas there is a consensus between Prime Minister Borisov and President Radev. My question to you is: how is the political and strategic foreign policy of the Republic of Bulgaria changing with the participation in the three seas initiative? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u110	Thank you, Mr. Pawnov. You have the floor to answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u111	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Pawnov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As is known, on 19 October 2020 in Tallinn, Bulgarian President Rumen Radev formally accepted the host from the President of Estonia at the next summit. Although normal planning is difficult in the current conditions, we hope that next year we will have a relatively normal household with physical meetings if possible. To your specific question: in no case after taking the baton from Bulgaria at the presidential meeting in Tallinn does not mean any strategic change in our foreign policy. Bulgaria took part in the three seas initiative from its very beginning, set at the first meeting of the President in 2016 in Dubrovnik. The assumed household is a logical continuation of our previous participation, as we are the sixth rotating host in a row. There is no doubt that our participation in the initiative meets our national interests and that we can benefit from our participation in both the short and the long term. The implementation of the proposed bases for the region in cross-border and infrastructure projects with external funding is entirely in line with the European Union's cohesion policy and equalisation of living standards between the so-called old and new Member States of the European Union. The objective is to attract a strategic investment, including private capital, in addition to the funds received from the European Union budget and the Member States participating in the Fund respectively. Bulgaria was the sixth to join. The initiative also has an important transatlantic dimension, expressed in significant financial support from the United States, not only financially, which opens up the possibility of implementing these projects. They are in the diversification of sources and routes of energy supply, in road infrastructure and digital connectivity. It is clear that although the initiative is launched at the presidential level, the role of governments, as it is mainly about infrastructure projects, is leading in the implementation of projects. In this regard, in early September, the Bulgarian government made, as you said, two important decisions. One was our participation in the Investment Fund of the initiative with a contribution of 20 million. EUR, the Bulgarian Development Bank was tasked to appoint its representative in the management bodies of the fund. In this way Bulgaria ranked among the countries, there are already a total of nine who made contributions to the Fund. This morning I found out that yesterday and the United States of America finally approved the 300 million-dollar participation decision. The dollar in this fund. With the second decision of the Council of Ministers, a national coordinator was appointed and was established by my order as a result of the decision Interdepartmental Working Group at the level of Deputy Ministers of the competent Bulgarian ministries, who will coordinate Bulgaria's policy for this initiative in principle, but will also organize the organization of Bulgaria for the Bulgarian household at the Sixth Summit with its accompanying events. Bulgaria will adhere to the principle of continuity of the results achieved so far with the priority projects developed under the initiative in the following main directions: improving energy, transport, digital connectivity between countries in the region by building and implementing key infrastructure and cross-border projects, ensuring diversification of energy sources, fast transport connections and digitalisation. Joint complementaryity of the projects with the integration process within the European Union and their harmonisation with the common policies of the European Union. Thirdly, creating an attractive investment and business climate to attract strategic investments, including private capital to the region where more than 110 million European citizens live. This would increase interest in building key infrastructure projects in our country and the neighbouring Black Sea and Danube region. In conclusion, what Bulgaria does and will do within the three seas initiative is dictated by our national interest and the desire for accelerated economic development and prosperity of our region, as well as for a rapid recovery from the crisis caused by the current pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. Two supplementary questions, Mr. Pawnov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I am not pleased with your response, which, without particular elegance, is the most open and directly propagandist. In order to make it perfectly clear what the initiative is, the three seas represented by the government as a useful activation of economic, transport, financial and logistics relations with the Baltic countries and Poland, it is necessary to follow the very idea of creating the universal Russian anti-military union. The Genesis of the Three Seas initiative comes from Marshal Joseph Pilsudski's old idea of building a sanitary cordon around Russia. Now the Bulgarian government presents it as some new proposal of the European Union, and in fact this is a project for NATO continuation. It is clear that NATO will not last very long, as an organization has already been broken down. The attempt to organise a three-sea union is an attempt to build in NATO's place something more lifelike and better funded. But the truth is even more worrying, because here the idea is to put a wall of countries between Russia and Western Europe, and especially Germany...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u114	You won't have time for questions, Mr. Pawnov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u115	...is a political union reborn and updated by Poland, with the assistance of the American military hawks. The plan of the Pentagon in the event of a possible military conflict between Russia and the United States is at the beginning of the military action against the Russians mainly to retaliate by Russia, to be imposed on the twelve prefrontal states of the Three Seas initiative, and their peoples will use for smoked meat. Specially for Bulgaria is entrusted with an impossible military task aimed at Russia and the Russian Black Sea Fleet, the objectives and tasks that have nothing to do with...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u116	Thank you, Mr. Pawnov. Finish your thought. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u117	My question is: Do you, Madam Minister of Foreign Affairs, realize what difficult and complex situation you bring Bulgaria and the Bulgarian society and the responsibility you must bear? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u118	Thank you, Mr. Pawnov. You have the floor, Mrs. Zaharieva, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u119	It is hardly possible for President Radev to blame himself for the lack of desire to develop relations with Russia. I am fully aware of the responsibility, dear Member of the National Assembly, I hope that you will be aware of your responsibility by spreading an absolute fairy from the stands of the National Assembly. [[noise, lines]] , scaring the Bulgarian citizens. This is an initiative related to infrastructure projects. For your information, Germany is not part of this initiative. When President Radev, by the way, accepted the household, the German President didn't even get involved... were at the state secretary level of the ministries of foreign affairs, so what you said was a complete lie. It has nothing to do with this initiative. It is no coincidence that I have tried to explain to you what the three priorities on it are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u120	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Pawnov, you have the floor for attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, I repeat: I am not pleased with your formal bureaucratic response. Madam Minister, you are taking advantage of the severe pandemic crisis, with the decline of the economy and social collapse. You manage in a total information blackout and join Bulgaria in the most dangerous for the European and world peace initiative of the military-strategic bloc Three seas. Thus, the Bulgarian political elite took the risk and responsibility for the historic act, comparable to Bulgaria's accession to Kaiser Germany during World War I and to Nazi Germany during World War II, and the price will again pay the Bulgarian people. My proposal is: a faster convening of the Advisory Council for National Security to the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, to assess our stay in the three seas initiative. Whether it will lead to negative damage to Bulgaria's national security against the backdrop of rapidly deteriorating Russian-American relations that can grow into a large-scale military conflict. It is also necessary to discuss the possibility of holding a referendum in which the Bulgarian citizens should pronounce whether Bulgaria should remain in the three seas initiative. I believe that since no one asked the Bulgarian people if Bulgaria wanted to enter NATO, it is now essential that the Bulgarians pronounce themselves for the stay in the three seas initiative. And explain to me what "Fak" means in Bulgarian?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u122	Thank you, Mr. Pawnov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u123	It's a lie.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u124	The next question is from the MP Christian Vigenin on a Programme for the Support of Organizations of Bulgarian Communities in the Republic of Albania, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Kosovo, Ukraine and the Republic of Moldova and citizens of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, with a Bulgarian self-awareness. You have the floor, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! On 20 February this year was adopted Decree of the Council of Ministers No 26, which approved additional expenditure on the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for this year amounting to 500 thousand. lv. to finance projects of Bulgarian communities in the Republic of Albania, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Kosovo, Ukraine and the Republic of Moldova and citizens of the Republic of Northern Macedonia with a Bulgarian self-awareness. And in April 2020, the Programme, which also specifies the scope of action, activities and organisations that could benefit from this funding, was adopted. In this regard, I ask you to answer the following questions: how many, in which countries and at what total value are projects approved for funding? How many will be realized this year? In fact, we can ask: have been implemented since we are already December, but perhaps there are some that will be completed by the end of the year, respectively what is the amount of funds planned for 2021 under this new programme? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u126	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. You have the floor to answer, Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u127	Dear Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Vigenin, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Indeed, building on the policy it has towards Bulgarians abroad, related to the maintenance of the Bulgarian identity, language and culture of our compatriots, we created in 2020 the first largest mechanism of our kind. The first year is really 500,000. BGN, because the beginning of the program, the development of the mechanism, we were convinced that they would be enough. We created this program for the development of the Bulgarian spirit, cultural identity and national self-consciousness for the Bulgarian community in the Republic of Albania, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Kosovo, the Republic of Moldova, the Republic of Northern Macedonia and Ukraine. Our actions are aimed at supporting the activities of the Bulgarian organizations in defence of their cause and for preserving the Bulgarian spirit, language and traditions. The programme's budget for the first year provided 500 thousand. lv. The deadline for submitting project proposals through our overseas representations was by the end of October this year. However, we had to explain and help them prepare these projects. The program enjoys extremely great interest from the Bulgarian organizations and based on the expert assessment and the pre-set regulatory criteria were identified and the first 30 priority projects totaling 499 thousand. 853 lv. Their realization started in mid-November. I will share here that, as every start, the implementation of the Programme during the first pilot year is full of challenges due to objective reasons, such as the introduction of COVID-19, and the difficulty of personal meetings of the representatives of these organizations with our embassies. On the ground, despite everything, Bulgarian embassies and general consulates make the best efforts to implement the projects and absorb in the most optimal way the funds and support the organizations that face difficulties in the registration process. They provide assistance to those who are still unsupported structures and lack of sufficient experience in the implementation of projects. However, at least we are convinced that we will be able to repay and absorb that 499 thousand. 853 lv. for projects. The first tranche of payment has already been made. I think the second tranche of payment on approved projects will be made by the end of next week. Pilot projects by country are as follows: four projects from Albania; two from Kosovo; two from Moldova; seven from the Republic of Northern Macedonia, ten from Serbia and five from Ukraine. These are the submitted and approved projects. The main objectives set out in the projects of Bulgarian organizations are aimed at preserving self-habitity, promoting Bulgarian culture to the local public, expanding the education in Bulgarian language, caring for local Bulgarian cultural heritage, strengthening the links with graduates in Bulgaria, administrative support of organizations and media in Bulgarian language. I believe that by providing adequate financial assistance, we will be able to promote and expand the overall activity of these organisations, which, as you know, have had difficulties finding funds for their maintenance and existence over the years.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u128	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Vigenin, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u129	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues, I'm not gonna ask questions, I'm just gonna make a little comment. I generally welcome this idea. I think it's good to expand it in the coming years. I asked this question first of all in order to hear a little more that such a program has, and that it will probably develop in the coming years, it would be useful. But it seems to me, perhaps because it is the beginning of the process, work on these programmes, on which we finance external projects, external organisations, is going a bit chaoticly. When I say chaoticly, I mean, it is good to have a better coordination with regard to the objectives and, accordingly, the means that are being realised. There are funds that go under the Ministry of Education, under the Ministry of Culture, I am convinced that some of these organizations receive such funds. Now the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is making such a program, and I am a little lost in all this of the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad, which, I think, should be, so to speak, the focus of these policies. I can guess why it has no role in this either, but, when I say this, I believe that in principle the GERB government made some requests with regard to the Agency, which had not been implemented. I recall that the Prime Minister had stated that the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad should be disbanded. It seems to me that with this initiative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it is stepping even further into the field of activity of this agency. It is logical that the next government, at least if it does not disband it, transform it from a state agency to an agency and put it under the hat of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which will help more effectively and purposefully use all this resource. Otherwise, I say again, if we can focus these funds a little bit better, the goals to be a little clearer, to be bound by a more comprehensive strategy in terms of policy, information, cultural, of Bulgaria to these countries, then such a type of programme would be an important element of such a comprehensive strategy.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u130	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Hole, Mrs. Zaharieva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u131	I only take the floor to complete my answer because I think I forgot to mention the amounts for next year. The programme in its original form was 2020 - 2024. You know that this is budgetary planning. It complements and does not duplicate other programs, but you are right that there are different institutions that are responsible for this. We're in good communication and coordination. With regard to the Agency for Bulgarians abroad, we really need a serious analysis. We know, and you know, as a former foreign minister, that this is the Directorate General of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. There's numbers here and there. In the coming years, there are estimated to be about 2 million. The first year was first in the middle of the year when we knew it would be harder at first, so 500 thousand. lv. Turns out it's enough, but our idea for the coming years of 2022, 2023, 2024, is to be around 2 million. lv. a year to assist these associations.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u132	I want procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u133	Mr. Pawnov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u134	Procedure in the manner of your conduct, Mr. Hristov. Be correct also to the Minister and to fellow MPs who speak, because the time you give to the Minister is double. It was 12 minutes ago instead of six minutes, then you gave her a minute and a half, and when I tried to ask the question, you tried to interrupt me at the second minute. Be strict, but on both sides. I know you are from the same party, but you are the President of the National Assembly, and you should be very specific about the Rules, not about tolerating one and harming another. This is my request to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u135	Thank you, Mr. Pawnov. I'll take your statement into consideration. From now on, the rules will be followed. We move on to the fifth issue of the MPs Anton Kutev and Philip Popov on representation in the local government of the Bulgarian diaspora in Ukraine after the administrative reforms and local elections. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u136	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, in the Republic of Ukraine there was, you know, administrative reform concerning the administrative region of Bolgrad, where the Bulgarian minority in the Republic of Ukraine is concentrated. This reform was, of course, reflected and debated in the Bulgarian Parliament, which also adopted a declaration on the protection of freedom, rights, cultural identity and in general the interests of the Bulgarian minority in the Republic of Ukraine. In this regard is our question to you, namely: how has the administrative reform in the Republic of Ukraine affected the representation in the local government of the Bulgarians in the country after the local elections held in the country on 25 October 2020, we ask you to present a comparative analysis of the number of representatives of the Bulgarian diaspora in the local government between the previous and the last local elections? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u137	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Mrs. Zaharieva, come in. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u138	Dear Mr. Vice-President! Mr. Kutev, Mr. Popov, thanks to the efforts of the government, the National Assembly, the constructive dialogue and, of course, with the support of the Ukrainian authorities, to whom I thank, a positive result was achieved, expressing the three regions with the largest number of ethnic Bulgarians to be united in a large district centre with the city of Bolgrad. Thus, watering and reducing the representativeness of the Bulgarian ethnicity was not allowed. Secondly, it is important to know that Ukrainian legislation does not allow dual citizenship and does not keep statistics on the results of elections on minority ethnicity. An important factor is the fact that the Bulgarian national minority in Ukraine does not have a single political party registered, which is why it is difficult to determine the exact number of its representatives in the local government. All this prevents clearly defining the representatives of the Bulgarian national minority in the local government bodies. However, with these agreements, I can say that according to the information we have and I can give some that we have, the presentation of the Bulgarian ethnic minority of the local elections held this year is better than the results of the previous local elections before administrative and territorial reform. At the local elections in Ukraine on October 25th of this year, Ukrainian citizens voted with four ballots for mayor of the respective settlement, administrative center of the united territorial municipality and three local councils of the district, regional, municipal. I would point out that an extremely positive result from the elections of local authorities is observed in the overturned Bolgrad region, where eight of the elected 10 mayors of the united municipalities, which are composed of the Bolgrad region, are of Bulgarian ethnic origin, or 80% of the mayors' seats are occupied by representatives of the Bulgarian ethnic minority. It can be said that, in the context of the elections for the local authorities, administrative and territorial reform is entirely in the interest of the Bulgarian national minority at the expense of other minority communities. In comparison with the previous local government elections, the Bulgarian ethnic minority had 29 out of 61 seats, or 41.54% mayor seats. At regional level it can be summarised that in six of the seven Odessa district regions the Bulgarian national minority has its representatives in municipal and newly established district councils. Here, comparison with previous elections is impossible because in the old administrative division such a local authority did not exist. This applies especially to settlements with high concentration of a Bulgarian minority. Particularly for the Bolgrad region of the district council, 18 out of 42 seats will be occupied by representatives of the Bulgarian minority. At district level, the Central Election Commission has not officially established the list of MPs in the Odessa District Council. The delay is the result of numerous litigations in the region. According to data so far, ethnic Bulgarians will retain their usual level of representation, and we can certainly claim the presence of four representatives of the Bulgarian minority. Less concentration of the Bulgarian minority is in Zaporozhka region. They limit the capacity for representation at the district level...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u139	Get it over with!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u140	In general, we can say that the observations on the reform, although there are no statistics on origin, which was about representativeness, are positive.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u141	Thank you. A line? Mr. Kutev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u142	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! Madam Minister, I thank you, first of all, for the data, because we really didn't have it, and it is important that we understand whether something has been achieved or what. Frankly, I am not entirely convinced that what you have told us is in favor of the Bulgarians in Ukraine, but this is something we need to see in the future. The problem of policies with minorities, especially with these Bulgarian minorities that we have in many countries, is that they are quite long-lasting and the result of them, unfortunately for better or worse, we will not see it now, but we will see it in 20, 30 or 50 years. It has already happened long enough that the government and power, taking into account good results, are ultimately bad for people. Personally, I hope that everything you have talked about in general sounds good, as long as it is true, should lead to a better outcome. It was this result that I cared about whether it was real or not. I hope it is! Frankly, I'm left with my doubts. And just one more word. One of the most important things we have to do, however, are those activities that you talked about in the previous question, including education. The more of these young people attracted Bulgaria to work, to study, the better for all of us. So personally, my recommendation is to work more actively because that's 500,000. BGN, which turned out to be for this year, hasn't even been spent. Apparently, there's nothing there or there's, like, 20, I don't know how much. Obviously, a policy with these amounts of support for minorities cannot be conducted.. I am talking in general, not specifically to you. We need a much stronger policy for connecting through education, through exchanges of communities, through culture. These are the things that bind the national communities and which bring the Bulgarians back to Bulgaria. We need to be a lot more active.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u143	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Mrs. Zaharieva, if you have any information on what part of the 500 grand we've worked hard to get them went to Ukraine?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u144	I don't really have one for Ukraine. I said how many were on projects, but the whole amount will de facto be, except for 50 BGN 100, down and, if I am not mistaken, will be used this year. For next year and for the following years, we are forecasting 2 million. lv. per year.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u145	For Ukraine, how much did it go?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u146	I can't say by country, I can say by country.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u147	Okay. We're done with that. The next question is from the MPs Krasimir Yankov, Georgi Andreyev, Dimitar Stoyanov, Lalo Kirilov, Nikolai Ivanov and Chavdar Velinov on the policy of the Republic of Bulgaria against the newly established State of the Principality of New Atlantis. Here you go, Mr. Stoyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u148	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister! In the summer of 2012, the eruption of one of the largest underwater volcanoes in the South Pacific formed a floating island of 27,000. kv. km, approximately the same size as Belgium. The island is located about 1000 kilometers north of New Zealand in the triangle between New Zealand, Fiji and Cook Island, and its formation is detected by NASA satellites, observed by the New Zealand Navy, Australian Air Force, is visited by expeditions, geologists, journalists, which is reflected by The first founding that the island is nobody's property is the Bulgarian citizen Valentin Balanov, who, after consulting one of the largest lawyers of the sea law in the world, is Professor Alexander Yankov and Professor Ivan Vladimirov, takes the actions they have prescribed, including an expedition to conquer it. The activities of acquiring ownership of the island are documented, including in front of European notary offices. After the conquest of the island the same was proposed to become part of the territory of Bulgaria, given that geologists say only the natural riches of the island amount to about five trillion dollars. At the same time, a 12-mile zone of territorial waters and a 20-mile economic zone are formed around it. In this case, all natural resources found in this economic zone would be owned by the Republic of Bulgaria. In accordance with these intentions, a proposal was prepared to the Bulgarian government to acquire ownership of the island. For half a year, no one responded to this proposal, which is why, using the opportunities of International Law, Valentin Balanov created a new sovereign state called: the Principality of New Atlantis, which is a joint project with Mensa International. Our question is as follows: what is Bulgaria's policy towards the Principality of New Atlantis so far? Are the questions raised by the Principality of the Republic addressed? Are we going to take advantage of the proposals made? What are our future intentions in this area?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u149	Thank you, Mr. Stoyanov. Mrs. Zaharieva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u150	Mr. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Bulgaria does not recognise in any form the existence of the Principality of New Atlantis mentioned by you as a sovereign state. Moreover, there is no act of international recognition of the Principality. It does not exist either legally or physically. Why do I say it doesn't exist physically? As you rightly point out, on 17 July 2012, the underwater volcano of Haverseimount emerged from the volcanic island chain of Kermadek and, as a result of the surface of the ocean, formed a temporary floating education of low density pumice, with a significant size of approximately 400 square meters. km. Over the next 122 days, education from unstable floating mass gradually dissolves in the ocean. The process of creating and disintegrating this education was studied by an international group of oceanologists and geologists from the United States, Britain, New Zealand, Australia and the result was published in 2014 in the edition. As a result of a lasting interest in volcanic activity and entities, we would also recommend contact, if you have one, with the Geological Institute of Strashimir Dimitrov, according to which this education no longer exists. In this sense, you understand why the Ministry of Foreign Affairs also does not develop foreign policy towards the non-existent territory of the Principality of New Atlantis, and no bilateral issues have been raised and discussed. I'll take the liberty of referring to art. 2 of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations, according to which the establishment of diplomatic relations between States and the establishment of permanent diplomatic representations takes place by mutual agreement. Therefore, the existence of diplomatic relations for the opening of a territory of another State of diplomatic representation is necessary, first of all, two sovereign states, as well as their mutual agreement in this sense. You ask me: am I going to take advantage of the proposals made? Here you clearly refer to the proposal made by Mr. Vladimir Balanov and to measures for the accession of the floating object in the southern part of the Republic of Bulgaria. In its 2014 reply, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs clearly and unambiguously replied that in carrying out the analysis, first of all, the question of the nature of this site should be addressed. Since the object is not actually permanently attached to the earth's bowels and sailing, it changes its location, even then... It can't be treated like land, respectfully like an island. On the basis of the conclusion that the site is not an island, there is no legal possibility that this floating object could be declared part of the territory of Bulgaria. In addition, we do not consider it possible to realise any economic benefits for the country offered by Mr. Balanov from the exploitation of the resources located in the exclusive economic zone or continental shelf due to the fact that these cannot be identified around the aforementioned temporary floating entity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u151	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Stoyanov, you are entitled to two additional questions related to the floating island. [[Replication by National Representative Georgi Svilenski. Happy tidings.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u152	I'm watching the smiles on the faces of my colleagues. Madam Minister, I will give up the two questions I had because you have de facto answered them. Obviously, however, we are talking about different things because, according to data from a month ago, geologists are starting to talk about the creation of an eighth continent in this area of the world, what I'm talking about. But apparently conflicting information leads to different conclusions and I think the Bulgarian government should be interested in this issue. My attitude towards what you have said will be as follows. The Bulgarian people have a saying: The Lord gives, but in the fold does not insert. "My question is related only to the use of an opportunity and nothing more. CIVID crisis has changed our world and we want it or not, it will never be the same. Whether it's gonna be better or worse, it's all up to us. On the occasion of what you have said, I would like to quote a thought by John Kennedy: The problems of the world cannot be solved by people whose horizons are limited by obvious realities. We need people who can dream of things that no one has ever seen. Please, tell me all this, take a closer look at this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u153	Thank you, Mr. Stoyanov. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, that concludes the official questions. Before you leave, you can come to me and ask you two questions. [[(Happy tidings.) A line from the National Representative Alexander Pawnov.)]] We are going to ask the MPs Nikolai Ivanov and Vasil Antonov about the development of energy in the Republic of Bulgaria to Temenuzhka Petkova, Minister of Energy.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u154	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies of the House! Dear Minister, in the Draft Strategy for Sustainable Energy Development of the Republic of Bulgaria until 2030 ... [[non-members of AG and MPs from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u155	The mask, Mr. Pawnov, and stop talking. [[Reply from the National Representative Alexander Pawnov.]] Stop disturbing the court. [[Reply by National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] Go on.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u156	...the general European policies and objectives for energy development and climate change are set with a horizon up to 2050, reflecting the national specifics in the field of energy resources, production, transport and distribution of energy. The main strategic decisions aimed at achieving the national objectives and ensuring the Bulgarian interests are defined. The strategy reflects trends, measures and policies in the field of energy security, energy efficiency, electricity and gas market liberalisation and their integration into a common European energy market, as well as the development and deployment of new energy technologies. In this regard: what are your views on specific measures to implement the priorities set out in the Strategy, medium and long-term objectives? Where do you think the place is and what is the prospect for the development of our nuclear energy, and in particular the development of the two projects for NPP "Belene" and "Kozloduy" nuclear power plant? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u157	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Madam Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u158	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Ivanov, Mr. Antonov! As you have noted, the project of a strategy for sustainable energy development of the Republic of Bulgaria by 2030 with a horizon up to 2050 was developed on the basis of art. 4, para. 2, p. 1 of the Energy Act and reflects the state's vision for the development of the energy sector by 2030 with a horizon up to 2050. The strategy sets out the general framework for the implementation of the energy policy of the Republic of Bulgaria by 2030 with a horizon up to 2050 and has been developed on the basis of an analysis of the state of the sector......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The experience gained over the years in managing the country's energy system, the potential for operation of existing generation capacities after their rehabilitation and modernisation, the need to build new power plants meeting environmental requirements and the highest safety and sustainability criteria, as well as the need to accelerate the deployment of new and highly efficient energy technologies and measures leading to a significant reduction in energy consumption and energy costs. Nuclear energy plays an important role in ensuring national, regional and European energy security, while providing affordable energy and is a key element for moving towards a low-carbon economy. The European Commission's communication on a clean planet for all the European Union's climate-neutral energy systems from November 2018 clearly states that the European Union's climate-neutral energy system in 2050 will be based mainly on renewable energy sources and nuclear energy. Nuclear energy, as a proven emission-free resource and defined as a local energy resource according to Eurostat, is a key element in the country's energy balance structure to ensure secure and reliable energy supplies and an effective fight against climate change. The Bulgarian country has proven and internationally recognized over 45 years of experience in the safe and secure operation of a nuclear plant, with highly qualified human potential and effectively developed energy infrastructure. Approximately 37% is the share of nuclear energy in Bulgaria's energy mix. In view of this, Bulgaria will continue to rely on nuclear energy to ensure a sustainable energy mix, to continue the operation of available capacities, as well as the implementation of new nuclear capacities will be of strategic importance for maintaining energy security, reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and reducing dependence on imports of energy resources in a cost-effective and competitive way. An important element related to the country's energy security is the successful implementation of the project for the continuation of the operation of units V and VI of the nuclear power plant You know that at the end of 2017 and in 2019 as a result of the successful implementation of the project, the Nuclear Regulatory Agency extended its operating licences to V and VI Bloc by 30 years. Another important element of particular importance for the country's energy security is the successful implementation of the project related to the increase in power of the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" up to 104%. This is achieved by increasing the heat output of each block from 3000 megawatts to 3120 megawatts. The project of a strategy, which has been developed, clearly and from the energy balance that has been drawn up, provides for the construction of new nuclear power in the country from 2000 megawatts to be phased into operation after 2030. A study of the National Centre for Parliamentary Research came out in October 2020, showing that more than 60% of people approve of nuclear energy development. It is in her face that they also see an opportunity to deal with climate change and achieve climate neutrality by 2050. In this regard, specifically with regard to the two projects that you have indicated. First of all, on the project related to the search for the possibility of building the nuclear power plant, with a strategic investor, entirely on the market principle, without providing state guarantees, without providing corporate guarantees or concluding long-term contracts for the purchase of electricity.. You know that on 7 June 2018 it was the Bulgarian Parliament that adopted a decision. In this decision, the Bulgarian Parliament has indicated very clearly its will, as well as the parameters under which this project should be implemented. You know that a procedure has been developed relating to the selection of a strategic investor, this procedure provides for certain stages. At present, in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, the procedure is actually at a stage that is related to providing access to the information room for the project. Given the pandemic situation around the world and the travel restrictions, at this stage we cannot proceed to the implementation of the possibility of giving access to this information room and each of the potential candidates to get acquainted with the information.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u159	Get it over with, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u160	With regard to the NPP, the Nuclear Regulatory Agency issued an order on 21 February 2020 approving NPP Area No 2 of Kozloduy NPP as a site on which a new base power can be built, a new nuclear power corresponding to the approved EIA. On 14 October 2020, the Council of Ministers decided to give the Minister of Energy a mandate to assign the Bulgarian Energy Holding the creation of a working group and the entry into communication with US companies leading in the field of nuclear technology. A working group has been set up and a report should be available by 31 January 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u161	Thank you. Mr. Antonov, please come in for further questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u162	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear colleagues! With my colleagues in different formats, we regularly raise the issue of this tribune not only this year, but also in the last two years especially intensively, because the real implementation of the project is frozen and, above all, the decision of the National Assembly of June 2018, and the decision of the Council of Ministers of 2018, we are under the impression that it is frozen and not implemented. Today's answer again raised great doubts about the implementation of the project "NPP Belene" although in this year things have happened that we should not pass by. Three of the world's largest nuclear companies believed in our nuclear project "NPP" "Belene" "Rosatom", "Framatom" and "General Electric" and signed a memorandum for carrying out joint actions in the implementation of the project. So far, we see that all our questions have been answered in the same way that the COVID pandemic prevents the implementation of the project. We are convinced that with such a serious project, the CIVID pandemic cannot interfere. For a long time, the five companies that were admitted to implementing the project had to be given a corridor in order to carry out their activities and continue their work on the implementation of the project. Moreover, we have seen that recently at Kozloduy NPP you held meetings, talked about building a hybrid reactor. Bulgaria's strategy is such, it is thus set to have two nuclear plants in Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u163	Finish it, Mr. Antonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u164	Give me another half a minute, I'm graduating. We are not opposed to the construction of the VII reactor. Moreover, the energy balance, which came out in recent days, shows that Bulgaria needs two nuclear plants, and two nuclear plants with predominantly state participation. And one more question. A long time ago, we posed the issue of green energy, the Green Deal, I think it was on 12 June 2020 when one of the issues was put. I was under the impression that you were too skeptical.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u165	Give me the question, because you're running out of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u166	I'm graduating. Shortly thereafter, Poland and Hungary raised the same question that nuclear plants, which, well done, have zero emissions, could be included in the Green transaction. Once again, our question is: how do you really see the construction of the VI block in Kozloduy, the reconciliation and completion of the power plant? Could you speed up this process and what deadlines do you see the implementation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u167	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u168	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Antonov! The questions you have raised have also been discussed in previous parliamentary questions and questions. Specifically on both issues. Firstly, regarding the search for an opportunity for realization of the NPP project "Belene". As I have already mentioned, this is according to a decision of the Bulgarian Parliament, we under the Constitution are obliged to implement this decision, and we are implementing it. What happened after February 2020 throughout the world, namely the COVID-19 pandemic, changed the agenda of all possible major projects, in general the agenda of the whole world. So it is quite normal from the point of view of safety measures, of travel restrictions, to delay the process related to the procedure for selecting a strategic investor, all the more so that the stage at which we are present is related to providing physical access to the information room for the project, which is ready and is in the National Electricity Company. We were looking for an opportunity to be granted online access to this information, but this proved impossible, as the information itself is confidential, also contains questions that concern copyrights, so it is impossible to provide online access. Physical access at present is limited in view of the measures imposed in each country related to travel. As regards the VII block of the nuclear power plant, Kozloduy. You know that as early as 2012 in April there is a decision of the Council of Ministers, which is a solution in principle, to build a new nuclear power on the site of the NPP. Subsequently, in 2013 and in 2014 two other decisions of the Council of Ministers follow. These are colleagues from Mr Oresharski's government. Within these two decisions, a decision is made to build the VII block of the NPP, which is supported by the US IP 1000 technology, and it is therefore decided that the realization of this project will become a fact if it is confirmed by a next government. Never stopped working on that topic. You know, there was an EIA procedure. For several years, it has been appealed in court and in 2019. VAS ruled that all actions by the Ministry of Environment and Water are legal and this gave the Nuclear Regulatory Agency the basis for issuing this order for setting the site No 2 for the VII block of the NPP. We will see what analysis our colleagues from Kozloduy will do, what they will present as a report, as a material, and only then will we be able to speak with a larger specific. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u169	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Antonov or Mr. Ivanov about the response to the questioning?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u170	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Minister! It is clear to everyone that a new long-term National Energy Strategy is needed to take into account the main global trends in energy, as well as the opportunities for development of the energy mix in Bulgaria. This is important not only in view of our realities and the transition to a low-carbon economy, but also, as is apparent, in order to protect our energy system from fluctuations and indecisiveness in the political situation. Nuclear energy must also be an important part of the energy mix in the future, and it is time for real steps to develop new nuclear capacities with a plan for when and what they should be. We need a special new nuclear energy development programme linked to our long-term energy strategy. In order to avoid the already 30-year delay of the NPP project, it is important to note that it is also a priority, necessary and real launch of a process for building new nuclear power plants in Kozloduy. They must take into account the key indicators determining the further development of global nuclear energy, namely the safety of nuclear installations and the cost of electricity produced therein. Both nuclear projects are extremely important for the future of the Republic of Bulgaria and the economy of the country. As it is clear that our energy is at a crossroads, we need really brave and long-term solutions despite the pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u171	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Madam Minister, this is the end of parliamentary control for you. I wish you a good and successful job! [[Relations from the National Representative Manol Genov.]] Once again, if you call, I will impose a reprimand on you, since you are disturbing the order in this Chamber. We are going to ask the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova. The question is from the MPs Georgi Svilenski, Manol Genov and Dimitar Danchev on the reform of the road toll policy. Who's gonna put in the question? Mr. Danchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u172	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Madame Minister! For years, including during the debates in this National Assembly on the amendments to the Roads Act, your Ministry and members of the GERB parliamentary group, you claimed that the state would be the operator of the Tol system. At the beginning of August this year, however, we learned that the government will pay 141 million. lv. of the company that built the system for its management in the next five years. In fact, this becomes clear in a negotiated procedure announced without prior notice on the website of the Road Infrastructure Agency. We also take into account the words of your predecessor Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova, quoted in 2017. I quote: "This is pure, I would call them, lobbying interests of companies who wanted to sell their own systems. We have bet so in the tender documentation that the system is Bulgarian, the rights, the source code is Bulgarian of the Ministry and of the Agency, not to be given into other people's hands, not to pay licenses. We want it to be ours, Bulgarian, with our rights to rule. These are elements of national security, so there is also one such interest here. lv. for consulting services of the World Bank to prepare the task for the Tol system. In this regard, we would like to ask you: how much money have been collected since the beginning of 2019 separately from the electronic charging system for the use of a Republican road network based on tolls for buses and trucks and by the electronic charging system for the use of a Republican road network on a time basis? And secondly, how do the activities of the announced negotiated procedure correspond without prior notice of pro-active monitoring and operational support for the interaction between the programs and equipment resources of the electronic toll collection system with the legal provisions of the Roads Act, where it is said that the Road Infrastructure Agency is obliged to collect road charges, operate and manage the electronic toll collection system, control the correct accounting of the fees due? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u173	Thank you, Mr. Danchev. Mrs. Avramova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u174	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Svilensky, Mr. Danchev, Mr. Genov! About the first question you asked. For the period from 1 January 2019 to 8 December 2020, the proceeds from electronic wineries and tolls amounted to 753 million. 599 thousand. 410 BGN, from which revenue from wineries from 1 January 2019 to 8 December 2020 The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 343 thousand. 119 wineries worth 650 million. 249 thousand. BGN 781. The revenue from wine charges from 1 January 2019 until the start of the Tol system on 1 March 2020 for all categories of motor vehicles is 503 million. Two hundred and 590 BGN, of which for electronic wineries for cars up to three and a half tons. 304 thousand. BGN 899 and for heavy-duty motor vehicles more than three and a half tonnes - 140 million 942,000. BGN 691. The revenue from tolling and from the introduction of the system from 1 March 2020 to 8 December 2020 is 103 million. 349 thousand. 629 BGN, 2 million sold. 455 thousand. 599 route maps for more than 43 million. and 261 million were paid. 824 thousand. 224 Toll declarations from national service providers worth 60 million 66,000. £326. The data after the introduction of the tol system shows that route maps are the most preferred means of charging by small carriers and transit vehicles. From the start of the Tol system until 3 November 2020, 2 million were sold. 229,000. 667 route maps for more than 39 million. lv. and 217 million were filed. Eight hundred and 243 tol declarations from national service providers, of which 75 thousand. 500 on-board devices worth 49 million 922,000. BGN 098. Regarding the second question you have asked. In the provisions of the Law on Roads in art. 21, para. 3, p. 11, p. 20 to 25 are described the functions, powers and duties of the Road Infrastructure Agency as a person collecting tolls. According to the Law, the activities of the announced negotiated procedure, without prior notice of pro-active monitoring and operational support for interaction between the programme and apparatus resources of the electronic toll collection system, are activities of technical operation of the system. These are part of the activities of the overall operation of the electronic charging system which the Agency is required to carry out as a person collecting tolls. Currently, the Road Infrastructure Agency is performing the designated role of a road toll collector through the electronic road toll system that is designed, built and put into service in compliance with the requirements of a contract concluded between the Road Infrastructure Agency and the Consortium as a contractor. The system operates a commercial and technical unit within the Agency's structure. The need to award the cited activities is due to the following circumstances: the Bulgarian electronic road charging system is assessed by international experts as a modern technological solution without an analogue in Europe. For the first time in the practice of such systems in a single technical information structure are introduced and two different electronic road charging methods are maintained at the same time on the basis of a time-based electronic winemaker, and on the basis of distance-traveling toll for vehicles. The two types of charging are normally introduced, maintained and operated as independent systems. The second unique feature is that in the Bulgarian tol system are united all known models of demand, automated, through the densest network of stationary control points in Europe, and through three parallel functioning authorities of the.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This ensures effective enforcement of transit traffic and effective collection mechanism...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u175	Your time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u176	...by electronic ticket. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since I have tried to be as comprehensive as possible in my response, I can answer in the next few minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u177	Give them a written answer. Besides, you have an opportunity in the back to continue. You are entitled to two additional questions: Who will ask them? Mr. Genov, you have two minutes. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u178	Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, your response is so general and positive anonymous and frankly similar to some presentation that should be presented to a business forum where listeners should nod their heads and kindly thank. I wrote down a line of your own about how the system in our country as a separate technological solution was without an analogue in Europe. My supplementary questions to you, Mrs Avramova, are that way. What is the reason why, literally at the last moment, before the state takes over the whole operation of the Tol system, it suddenly delegated this to another for the solid amount of 141 million for a five-year period or 28 million. lv. A year? Is there a contract for this and when will it become public? Why are both the Regional Ministry and the Road Agency persistently silent on the decision to award this activity without a tender procedure, is it not a deliberate refusal of competition and publicity? In this sense, we expect you to clarify, and for the first time in public, to hear the question: who has accepted this decision to be justified by a secret report for which the Road Agency has refused its disclosure so far? I think it's a matter of ministerial honor that you tell us in one sentence in the final: who is this lawyer, for whose advice the Agency has paid generously $20,000. lv. for the opinion that in the API and in the Regional Ministry the legal capacities as statutory persons should not be a deficit? I expect additional answers to these questions because, Madam Minister, it turns out that the system in Bulgaria is so dark, questionable and expensive as costs and as an activity that you can really be the rights to become it without an analogue in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u179	Thank you. Madam Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Genov, I will continue my answer because it also contains some of the answers to the questions you have asked further. I will continue with the third essential functionality. Without an analogue, it is the maintenance of its own domain s domain for handling card payments, including payments with fuel cards without brokerage of a commercial bank. With this payment tool are provided all channels for the sale of electronic wineries, route maps of the Road Infrastructure Agency and the self-service terminals, points for sale with operator, the website Бg Tol, mobile application Бg Tol, as well as all cars of tol control. Other functionalities are realized in the system, which are proof that the Bulgarian system has no analogue. There is continuous operation of the system, which is provided by innovative technical and programming architecture with two fully interchangeable power plants of the calculation resource, data centres with the ability to maintain functionality when one of the centres is completely removed. The control infrastructure allows flexible reconfiguring of operating modes at each control point, which ensures the technical range of the paid network to be modified up to 10 800 km, and certain road sections can only be monitored with electronic screw and other toll modes; the possibility of combined control of electronic screw and tolls, as well as the use of the control point only with a traffic monitoring function; the possibility of interface connection to external systems; the exchange of traffic monitoring data, including data from mobile traffic weighing stations. These circumstances prove that after the introduction of the system and the award of the contract, it has become significantly complicated due to the introduction of these new functionalities, some of which are unique to this type of system. For this reason, the initial resources provided for by the Road Infrastructure Agency for the technical operation of the electronic tolling system do not correspond to the current state of complexity and development of the project. In this regard, API experts justify the need to provide additional services for the operation of the electronic toll system temporarily due to its complexity and complexity. The rights to use software products have been transferred to meet the requirements of the Agency's contract. This circumstance does not lead to the acquisition of specific know-how by the contracting entity. And according to a World Bank report, the acquisition of this know-how could take about five years. The need for joint operation has also been demonstrated in other introduced systems in Europe. For this reason, part of the service after the first 24 months is suspended in the quoted award if a specific know-how transfer is achieved in that period...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u181	Time, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u182	... to the National Toll Management, namely Proactive Monitoring and Operational Support Services. I have the assurance of the Road Infrastructure Agency that they strictly comply with the legal and regulatory framework in the field of the collection of road charges. And in connection with your question, if there is an annex made, no annex has yet been made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u183	Thank you, Madam Secretary. An attitude to the answers to the questions. Mr. Svilensky, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u184	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, we cannot be pleased with the answers, because you have not answered any of the questions asked. By the way, we did not expect to get answers to the questions from you, because the main person in charge he was assigned to and with which a mission returned to the Ministry of Regional Development, namely the realization of the Tol system, is called Mr. Nankov, not you. But anyway, as Minister, you have to answer. Unfortunately, on your back is the responsibility for what is happening, the responsibility for the Bulgarian citizens to see your failure in the introduction of the Tol system, because we are now talking about this event here in this Chamber for two years now: the introduction of an expensive system, the introduction of a system for which we need new 140 million for active monitoring in violation of art. 21, para. 3, p. 20, where it says who should do this thing, this is the Road Infrastructure Agency. And here, in this House, you and your colleagues in the ruling majority convinced us that the Road Infrastructure Agency would do all these things. You say that the experts at your agency recommended another 24 months, another five years, another 10 years... How many more years are we going to pay foreign companies to do business that is legally assigned to you? At the time, Minister Lilyana Pavlova said she would not succumb to lobbying interests. I ask now: have you given in to lobbying interests since years after the introduction? For the numbers you said, I will not comment on them are clear. As much as you've collected before the toll system, as much as you're collecting right now, only ten times more costs are on this toll system. I'll just give you the example of 1,200 street employees.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u185	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u186	In this regard, Minister, Mr. President, Bulgarian Parliament, Bulgarian citizens need the truth, need these numbers explained to them: how, why are money spent, how and why are money collected, who and with whom do they conclude a contract? In this regard, the Bulgarian Parliament needs an explicit debate on the topic of implementation, exploitation and control of the Tol system. That is why we are submitting a draft decision for a debate on the topic of the Tol system. Here you go. [[The National Representative Georgi Svilenski gives a folder to the President.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u187	You were 40 seconds late to bring it in. Thank you. In connection with the previous inquiry, by letter No 054-00-92 of 11 December 2020, submitted today at 11.44 pm, there was a request for a debate on questioning, No 054-05-44, of 23 October 2020 and a draft decision on the questioning set by the MPs Georgi Svilenski, Manol Genov and Dimitar Danchev to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a reform of the road toll policy. The proposal for debates and the draft decision are signed by 51 MPs. The requirement of art. 105, para. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly more than one-fifth of the MPs to make a proposal to hold a debate on the questioning. On the basis of art. 105, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I schedule the debates on the questioning and voting of the draft decision for the next meeting designated for parliamentary control. I hope you're happy. [[Relations from the National Representative Manol Genov.]] We move on to the next question by the MP Pavel Shopov about the results and the future policy related to the system introduced in the country. Mr. Shopov, I can't see from here, but you seem to be standing without a mask in the hall? You're demonstrably not wearing a mask. Do you have a mask or the Quaestors to provide you with? I'll wait for an answer in the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u188	Comrade Balevski, it is not your job to make remarks about who is wearing a mask, who is without a mask. Your job is to lead the National Assembly as Vice-President in terms of its activities.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u189	And to observe...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u190	This is not a disco for you to go into and order who gets out and who gets in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u191	Mr. Shopov, am I to understand that you refuse to wear a mask demonically in this room?!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u192	Mr. Balevski, or more precisely, Comrade Balevski...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u193	I'm not Mr. Balevsky, you haven't learned my name.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u194	No, that's your name. I don't understand why some people are ashamed of their names.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u195	Mr. Shopov, I'm not calling you by another name.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u196	There's nothing wrong with being Comrade Balevsky. As some people used to hide their names during communism, now during democracy they hide communists...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u197	Mr. Shopov, will you ask your questions because you've already eaten one minute?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u198	No, from here on out, I haven't had a chance to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u199	If you don't put on a mask after you're done, I'm going to impose disciplinary punishment on you. Keep asking.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u200	Honourable Members, Dear Minister! Madam Minister, the question at first glance resembles the previous question of BSP colleagues, but let them hear me too, because I will give them some answers. It's no coincidence that I put it in the form of a question, because it's about politics. Because the issue of the Tol system has been a matter of national policy for decades now. I have put it differently than the previous question to you in the sense of making a comparison. My question is to give differences, and I think there are differences in figures, such as the first part of your response; to make analyses and balances on what indicators regarding the results of the toll system in the road network, there are differences from the previous system that has been applied for decades. What are the conclusions on the effect of the Tol system compared to the period before its introduction, perhaps in the last one or two years, and what are the intentions, what will be the policies for increasing the revenue from fees according to the system? Because of no uniqueness, there is no point in talking about its technical perfection, in whatever direction your previous response was, if this system does not produce a result if this system does not contribute money to repair the roads. For years the discussion in society was held and there was a covenant sum of at least 1 billion. BGN, which would occur, which are very far from the existing result. We from Ataka and two hands have pleaded, voted and made speeches in this House and we very much wanted the system to be introduced in order to destroy the holes in the Bulgarian roads in order to build new roads, to expand the road network and finally enter into normal country mode with regard to road infrastructure. Therefore, we believe that from your answer from now on, once we take account of the system that has already been in place for almost two years, it will depend very much. This discussion must begin to correct...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u201	Get it over with, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u202	...this insane condition, in which it seems to have a negative effect...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u203	Get it over with, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u204	...as it appears that the fees for maintaining the toll system... [[The President turns off the microphones. The orator continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u205	Don't push. I've turned off your microphone. Mr. Shopov, put on your mask. Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u206	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Shopov, yes, as you noted in the exhibition of your question, the meaning of the new system of electronic toll system, electronic car bill and toll toll for toll vehicles has been introduced as a fairer model for charging and using the Republican road network. This electronic system, which is high-tech and provides accessibility to the service from all points of the world, facilitates consumers in different forms of pay and gradually integrates us into the pan-European electronic system. The starting point for analysis is the specific data on the performance of the system so far, given the scope and the established tariffs. Decision No 101 of the Council of Ministers of 20 February 2020 adopted the list of Republican roads for which a distance toll fee is charged. It includes motorways, first and second class roads, which have a total length of 6050 km. Of these, for 2935 km, the second class of roads was accepted zero rate with the modification of the charges charged for crossing and using the Republican road network. Apart from that, on the occasion of municipal proposals, sections of the Republican road network were exempted from an electronic winery and the respective municipalities took over the costs of maintaining these sections. The charging of road vehicles with a total technically permissible mass exceeding 3,5 tonnes shall apply from 1 March 2020. An objective indicator of the results of the system introduced shall be the reported revenue in the budget held for charging the road sections used, but subject to the conditions for their comparative analysis. The Road Infrastructure Agency as a person collecting tolls provides for a comprehensive analysis of whether the current prices and scope of the toll system, respectively the revenues from using these road sections, meet the expectations and planned revenue for the country to be made in the presence of a reference month, which is close to the respective month of last year. In the event of the occurrence of these circumstances, account will be taken of the results of the system in place and this comparative analysis will be carried out. At present, the statistics from the introduction of the toll system and the revenues we have in the budget, I said them in the previous answer to the question, should I repeat them as figures, Mr. Shopov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u207	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u208	The revenue from wine-making from 1 January 2019 to 8 December 2020 amounts to 650 million. 249 thousand. BGN 781. The revenue from winemakers from 1 January 2019 until the start of the toll system "1 March 2020" is 503 million. Two hundred and 590 BGN, of which electronic wineries for cars - 362 million. 304 thousand. BGN 899 for 942,000. BGN 691. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the 349 thousand. 629 BGN, from route maps they are 43 million. 283 thousand. £303. and from the declarations made by national service providers.. 60 million 66,000. £326. The data shows that the preferred means of charging are the route maps with which the Road Infrastructure Agency operates. Despite the state of emergency in the period 13 March 13 May 2020, data from carriers show that traffic is shrinking by one third, that most of the intensive heavy cargo traffic in the country is equipped with devices necessary for tolling on a toll basis, and drivers also choose the flexible charging method. In the introduction of the tol, the forecast of expected revenue was in order, as you yourself noted, a million and a half leva per day, or about 30 million per month. In the conditions of a pandemic because of the COVID-19 and in the shrinking business revenues were an average of 10.5 million per month, with only three months after the end of the emergency situation, June, July and August, the average monthly revenue rose to 11.9 million. The current decline in the expected revenue from tol on an annual basis is the result of the decrease by about one third and the average distance...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u209	Get it over with, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u210	... during the emergency situation related to the COVID-19, and the actual charging of only 3115 km road network, which are first-class roads and highways. The National Tol Government's forecast is to reach 129 million on an annual basis, which will be about 6% higher than last year's revenues.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u211	Madam Minister, your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u212	Thank you. I'll stop there.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u213	Two additional questions, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u214	Dear Minister, the government is wondering how to justify the collapse of the idea of the Tol system, because the legacy of at least 1 billion, of which 4 years ago was spoken, is infinitely far away. It's not the cause, of course, of the coronavirus crisis or reduced traffic. On the contrary, traffic has increased, Madam Minister. And I'll tell you before the Turkish trucks passed through northern Greece, where there were highways. They preferred that route because that's where it was being paid. Now in Bulgaria there are highways, passing through Bulgaria, but they continue to hardly pay. The passage of Turkish trucks through Bulgaria, and you know it perfectly well, is their armagan, spoken in their mother tongue. And the colleagues from BSP, Mr. Svilenski, should have a frank conversation in Bulgaria, a discussion on this. The money does not come because the Akkadash was apparently given another surrender by the Bulgarian side because they are so accustomed. The Bulgarian economy has lost dozens, hundreds, if you will, millions, billions for this reason, because Bulgaria is a country through which the Turkish squads that break the roads, break the roads, cause catastrophes for various reasons, we have talked about it a lot, going through a small village. And it's a Turkish multi-annual, decade-long policy. One of the things that is important to Bulgaria is to have a transit cheap passage, to have logistics in relation to Western Europe. That's the big reason. And in Bulgaria is doing everything possible...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u215	Your time, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u216	There were companies that registered at fake addresses that appealed the proceedings...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u217	Your time is up. Madam Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u218	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Shopov, eight months since the introduction of the Tol system is a very short period for which objective conclusions and assessments of the effect of the introduction of the Tol system are to be made. Furthermore, we must also bear in mind that immediately after the introduction of the electronic charging system, the emergency situation and the CoVID-19 pandemic were announced. You know that the original option. The 1st billion that you are quoting was to charge 10 800 km of Republican road network. The next option, which was tabled, is for highways, first and second class roads for 6050 km with certain tariffs. No, Mr. Shopov, no foreign country has any influence for Bulgaria. The Bulgarian carriers were the ones who asked for a smooth and gradual introduction of the tol system so that they could be prepared so that they could travel along the Republican road network equipped with onboard devices so that their smooth introduction could begin. You know that there was an agreement on June 1st three months after the introduction of the Tol system, to have an analysis and to have a repeat conversation with the representatives of the Bulgarian carriers. That didn't happen. It could not have happened, for the simple reason that the three months of emergency could not have been months in which to do an objective analysis and to assess the need to increase tariffs or the range of the toll system. This factor in this year's pandemic is unprecedented, so there is no way to do a comparative analysis. Our policy to increase the revenue from the Tol system will be aimed precisely at changing the scope of the paid road network, and more sections will be included gradually and those benefiting intensively from heavy traffic such as politics in other European countries when introducing the tol system. Of course, the fee rate in an objective analysis will also be examined and discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u219	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Answering attitude Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u220	Cost less, not increase prices! $120 million, you're gonna raise your prices.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u221	Silence in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u222	It is obvious that the government is simply squirming at this question, and the answers, Madam Minister, are absolutely untenable. I see your experience with a bon tone to turn things around, to calm down, and to pass a meter, to go quietly in terrilles. I was prepared for the fact that as an argument you will give me the protests of the Bulgarian carriers. Yes, there are Bulgarian carriers. I'm not about them paying higher prices. They could be compensated, and they could be compensated, let them hear me, at least a hundred and one ways. This is how it is done in Europe, and this is how it is done in Turkey itself in terms of fees. But here we are talking about Turkish trucks and vehicles that pass through Bulgaria almost free of charge and which continues as a policy, and no one takes measures for this. In Bulgaria, DPS is a pity that there is not a single representative here, as is known to many people in the hall and in the country, to a large extent Ahmed Dogan distributes portions through transport companies. This is a branch in which DPS has very powerful positions, and Turkish legal entities also operate through Bulgarian legal entities and companies in this field. Colleagues, it's no coincidence that the DPS is holding this committee...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u223	Answering attitude, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u224	... The Transport Committee. And if we don't realize all this, even here BSP colleagues say: by reducing system maintenance fees, yes, well, but this will not be decisive. By the most modest calculations, everyone should be aware that Turkish cars and trucks every year save between 300 and 400...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u225	Your time is up. [[The President turns off the microphones. The orator continues to speak with microphones off.]] Mr. Shopov, I warned you several times to wear a mask in the hall. Due to the demonstrable refusal to comply with the order in this Chamber, I am imposing a disciplinary measure against you. The next question to Minister Petya Avramova is from the MP Vasil Antonov about the possibility of immediate repair of Republican road III-305 Yasen At any cost, disinfecting the stands must be carried out! Don't come any closer, please! The people's representative Pavel Shopov has spoken to this tribune, who does not comply with the epidemic measures, so mandatory disinfection! [[People's representative Pavel Shopov asks for the word in the manner of conduct.]] Mr. Shopov, please come in before they disinfect. The tribune is still yours in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u226	Comrade Valenski, that's what I'll call you from now on, as you...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u227	Please treat the Members of the National Assembly with respect or I will impose another measure on you!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u228	It's not the meeting's business... Another question is that I have always considered you to be an absolutely untenable and illegitimate vice-president...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u229	I take your word for it! [[The President turns off the microphones. The orator talks when microphones are off.]] Mr. Shopov, I'm taking your word for indecent behavior. [[The speaker continues to speak with microphones off.]] Mr. Shopov, do not disturb the order of the sitting! Release the stands, please! Mr. Shopov, your word has been taken away. Release the stands, please! [[The speaker continues to speak with microphones off.]] Mr. Shopov, according to art. 161, para. One, you're suspended from the hearing. Please, the Quaestors, take the MP out of the room! Disinfecting the tribune must be done! Here you go, Mr. Antonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u230	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister! Republican Road III-305 Yasen After the introduction into operation of the highway. "Hemus" in the part between the track Pleven and Lovech it will become even more strategic for the two districts, especially for the municipalities of the western part of the Pleven region. Since the construction of the road III-305 for information, it was built in the late 1970s and early 1980s, complete rehabilitation has not been implemented and the road is in a miserable state especially at the end of km 16+900, to km 25. Defects and deformations are significant holes, subsidences, tracks and so on. Dear Minister, the operational state of the road cannot be improved with the methods and means of ongoing maintenance. Repair works need to be carried out urgently, including the complete laying of layers of non-solid and dense asphalt concrete, events to improve the drainage of the road and the like. In this regard, my question to you is also: what is the possibility of urgent and immediate repair of the section of Republican road 305 Yasen Thank you, I'm waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u231	Thank you, Mr. Antonov. Madam Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u232	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Antonov, along with the construction of key high-speed routes along the Republican Road Network, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the Road Infrastructure Agency, are working towards finding a solution to improve the technical and operational characteristics of all other roads, which are important for carrying out both international and internal. The Road Infrastructure Agency is looking at various options and opportunities for the implementation of a complete repair of road III-305 Yasen "Krushovitsa" "Sadovets" "Uglen "Dermantsi" "Toros" Glozhene, passing through the territory of Pleven region from km 0 to km 25 and Lovech district from km 25 to km 62+281. For the third-class section of the territory of Pleven, the relevant actions have been taken. The road infrastructure agency has been entrusted to the road-support company for Pleven District to develop a technology project for preventive repair 25 km from road III-305 Krushovitsa "Sadovets" border, Lovech district. From km 0 to km 25 the indicative value of the project is 119 thousand. BGN 132. with VAT. The deadline for implementation of the action shall be 28 February 2021. After the development and coordination of the technology project it will be valued according to the financial resources Agency "Travel Infrastructure" will commission the construction works. The repair will start in 2021 and falls within the scope of your question a segment of km 16+900 to km 25. The same section from km 16 to km 25 on route III-305, at km 19+700 at the end of the regulation of the village of Sadovets has a registered landslide which leads to deformities of the road pavement. For the sustainable strengthening and restoration of the failed section under the Treaty RD 33-14, research works related to the development of design materials at the first intermediate stage are currently being carried out, which includes a thorough view of the failed section, carrying out the necessary geodetic measurements, engineering geology, hydrogeological studies, studies of the engineering infrastructure located within the scope of the area under consideration. The aim is to develop a technical project on the basis of which strengthening and preventive activities are to be implemented. The permanent strengthening of the landslide and the realization of preventive repair activities will contribute to the overall improvement of the condition of the 25km section. The Lovech District division is included in the list of the proposed sections of the Republican Road Network for the design and repair of the area for which the Road Infrastructure Agency is currently looking for opportunities to secure the necessary financial resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u233	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Antonov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u234	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, thank you in part for your reply. I see you're working on it, but why is the road clear? First, because with the inclusion in service of the highway. "Hemus" in this section, a large part of the northwest and western part of the Pleven region can be relieved to take part in the movement through road III-305 so that they do not enter the road around the road and extend their route, and the inclusion in the section on the highway "Hemus". That's first. Secondly, at the moment we do not have a clear concept for the construction of the ring road around Pleven. Imagine what would happen if the whole movement were to be inserted again in both directions from these regions to the Hemus Highway. We accept positively the first part of the answer for the construction of road III-305 from km 0 to km 25. This is the part in Pleven region, but it is very important that this link continue to Boaz respectively and in the part of Lovech and Lovech region. The benefits of this are clear. Here we expect the development of the Western Industrial Zone in the Pleven Western Zone, we expect the construction of a terminal in the Air School in Lower Metropolitan and a number of other auxiliary sites that will use these routes along with all these municipalities. Separately, Romanian travelers use this part, this route as the shortest in the direction of the highway. And yet another addition I understand that my question is partly related to the toll system, as well as to the state's investment in this direction. I understand that the resource is strictly defined, limited, but the importance of this site is significant not only for Pleven region, it is significant for North and Central Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u235	Thank you, Mr. Antonov. Mrs. Secretary, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u236	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Antonov! Yes, we take into account the importance of this road section in both the territory of Pleven and the territory of Lovech district. In this regard, action has been taken for the 25km stretch of the territory of Pleven district. In 2021, it will start its repair. We are looking for opportunities and as you pointed out, within the financial resources available to the Ministry and the Road Infrastructure Agency. We really prioritize where it is most necessary to undertake ongoing repairs and maintenance activities. We continue to use all funding options, as well as European funds, so far we have repaired many sections of the third-class road network on projects with European funds and the state budget. We will look for opportunities for the remaining kilometers of Lovech district territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u237	Thank you, Madam Secretary. That concludes the questions to you. I wish you a pleasant work and rest. We move on to the next questions to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Desislava Taneva. The issue is from the MP Dimitar Danchev on the financial support for the measures of the Rural Development Programme for the next programming period. Mr. Danchev, please state your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u238	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Vasil Grudev, from the public appearances of the Executive Director of the State Fund, I have found that it is proposed to reduce the financial support of the measures of the Rural Development Programme for the next programming period 2021. It is clear that your ministry has made this proposal to the participants in the relevant thematic working group. In this regard, I ask you to respond: firstly, on what criteria have the proposals for the percentage of financial support under the Rural Development Programme for the next programming period been made? Secondly, on the basis of what criteria does the thematic working group develop a strategic plan for the development of agriculture and rural areas for the period 2021, 2027? Finally, on the basis of what criteria have participants been identified in the relevant thematic working group for the development of a strategic plan for the development of agriculture and rural areas for the period 2021, 2027? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u239	Thank you, Mr. Danchev. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u240	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Danchev, first of all I would like to say that what you have quoted from the announcement by Vasil Grudev, Executive Director of the Fund of Agriculture, was his proposal. It concerned only large farms and in no way was there a general reduction in funding as a proposal. Outside of this proposal of this kind, there is no proposal proposed within the scope of the debate of the thematic working group. The first question. In preparing the Agricultural and Rural Development Strategic Plan 2021, the Ministry shall be led by the draft regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing rules for supporting the strategic plans to be drawn up by Member States under the common agricultural policy and financing by the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund and by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development. The draft legislation states that on the basis of the SWOT analysis and the needs assessment in the Strategic Plan on the Common Agricultural Policy, the Member State concerned shall define an intervention strategy setting quantitative targets and intermediate targets in order to achieve specific objectives. The experience of implementing the Rural Development Programme for the current period has also had an impact on the Ministry of Agriculture's proposals for the first project of interventions. Following the draft legal framework that outlines the possibility under the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) Strategic Plan, future opportunities for support are being developed. I just want to say that on the website of the Ministry you can get acquainted with the three SWOT analyses, the needs and the setting of the goals on which to answer the questions about the proposals, as each of them addresses a specific need. The relevant discussions with the industry have been carried out on these topics. The second question. Decision No 196 of the Council of Ministers of 11 April 2019 approved a list of programmes and leading departments for development. The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests has been designated as the leading office for the development of the Strategic Plan for the Development of Agriculture and Rural Areas for the Programme Period 2021. The Order No 142 of the Council of Ministers of 7 June 2019 lays down the order for the development of the Strategic Plan for the Development of Agriculture and Rural Areas for the Programme Period 2021. In this regard, my Order No RD-09-216 of 26 February this year was established a thematic working group to develop this strategic plan. The functions and tasks of the thematic working group are defined in art. Art. 10 and art. 13 of PMS 142. According to the provisions of art. 7, para. 8 of the Decree TWGs shall adopt the internal rules for their activities drawn up by the relevant leading office. The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall prepare a draft of these rules to regulate TWG's organisation and activities to develop the Strategic Plan for the new programming period, which were adopted at the beginning of the first meeting. Today is another meeting of the thematic working group, which discusses various interventions.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u241	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Danchev, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u242	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, I am pleased to note that there is some distance between what Mr. Vasil Grudev said and what you have said now, but I would like to tell you that Mr. Grudev's statement was not only about the large farmers, but it was addressed to both the average and those of the processing industry, it was all about the different sectors for support in agriculture. Overall, we were impressed, and it seems to me that representatives of the industry are expected to reduce the percentage of financial aid. What is worse, in my opinion, is that lessons have not been learnt, as you have said, from this programming period, because it has not been taken into account that the huge share of the grant that is granted to farmers goes exactly to the hands of several large-scale farms and small and medium-sized farmers do not have practical access to European funds. In principle, the direction of the measures that you advise me to read, by the way, we have read them, is correct, good, but in no case is it clear from the written and published on the site in which area and how much the funds will be, or what the percentage of self-participation we are talking about right now. I am surprised why the problems in the implementation of the objectives of this Rural Development Programme have not been taken into account, where much of the projects are not financed because the project is being processed for years. The assessment of the projects under Measure 8.6 has been going on for two and a half years and has not even been assessed for compliance yet. Under Measure 6.4.1 you are still at the stage of technical and financial assessment. The support procedure for small farms s 4.1.2 lasted two years. I do not want to comment at all, for example, on the funds that were literally given to farmers under the exceptional temporary support measure for farmers CoVID-19...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u243	Your time!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u244	...where a beneficiary, I graduate, received an average of BGN 2344. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. It is also a bad impression to suggest that the State Fund of Agriculture under the Rural Development Programme be financed with a larger amount of non-agricultural aid, at the expense of, for example, the lower rate of financial support for the processing of agricultural products. It is not clear how the projects will be financed if there is greater interest in the defined financial resource. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u245	Thank you, Mr. Danchev. For the doppelganger, if you like. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u246	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Danchev, you contradict yourself in those you defend and the questions you ask. The proposal, which announced the Executive Director of the Fund and later the proposal, which the Ministry made in one of the meetings of the TWG, was not for 25%, but 30% support, but the other with a financial instrument for providing support, was precisely for large farms with over 500 thousand standard production volumes. This was a proposal, it is still subject to debate precisely because of the needs and weaknesses that have been drawn up in SWOT analyses. You contradict each other in these matters. Secondly, in terms of the final distribution of budgets. They will be when we have the final of European legislation. The trialogs are still running, there are still schedules for these trialogs, the expectation is the spring of next year, but everyone knows the common framework. Thirdly, with regard to the allocation of the general budget, the proposals that are still being discussed today regarding the opportunities that we can make use of as a Member in order to have an emphasis on support in small and medium-sized ones, this is proposed. Even for the reassignment payment, it's not every farmer's offer, it's just the little ones'. All this as suggestions is also uploaded to the site and you can inform yourself. Regarding the examples you gave with the measures. The two measures that you have cited are in a more advanced phase, and even Measure 6.4 is practically closed, but what is like new eligibility requirements, the Ministry has proposed in the course of the TWG meetings is accounted for and this part of these eligibility criteria is precisely because of these weaknesses and then by the Fund's analysis of how many approved projects are finalized and why we come to example older operators. So we need to read it thoroughly so that we can really draw conclusions, and you don't have to contradict yourself in these matters.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u247	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I wish you a pleasant job, no further questions for you. The next question is to the Minister of Justice "Mrs. Desislava Ahladova." The question is from the MP Hristo Gazhev on procedures for acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship. Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u248	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, one of the sustainable policies of the Republic of Bulgaria in the last 30 years is providing the opportunity to obtain Bulgarian citizenship from third-country nationals who have Bulgarian roots and Bulgarian self-consciousness. It is mainly born of two historical reasons, such as the formation of large Bulgarian diasporas outside the Ottoman Empire in the last few centuries, as well as as as a result of the wars of the 20th century, when huge Bulgarian communities remain outside the borders of Bulgaria. My question specifically concerns a country, a neighbor of ours, who, unfortunately, we all know, has been running a negative campaign for Bulgaria and people with Bulgarian self-consciousness for years in the Republic of Northern Macedonia. There have been many examples in recent decades in the direction of their discrimination by the official authorities, and even more than once officials in Skopje have declared that such people do not even exist. All of this, of course, is seen with very great concern from the Bulgarian side and we have reacted many times to these processes with the firm position that this must be stopped. This is also part of the unanimous declaration of the National Assembly of October 2019, namely to end any form of speech hatred with regard to Bulgaria and the citizens of the Republic of Northern Macedonia with Bulgarian self-awareness, including in media, inscriptions of monuments, memory plates and others. And I don't know why in Skopje anyone hopes that after the next election this national consensus would change. Worse, we have seen brutally unacceptable reactions from representatives of the Republic of Northern Macedonia. And after Bulgaria's justified position on the negotiating framework and the postponement of the first intergovernmental conference between the Republic of Northern Macedonia and the European Union. Even if a representative of the government were to declare himself extradition of all people with Bulgarian self-consciousness from Northern Macedonia. Madam Minister, I turn to you as it is from the competence of the Ministry of Justice to organise the process of examining and processing the received applications for the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship, I am still aware that because of the huge number of them they cannot be processed in due time and the Ministry is doing well according to its capacity, but still, Madam Minister, I ask you to provide me with information: how many applications for the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship have been submitted by citizens of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, on what grounds have they been submitted and how many of them have acquired Bulgarian citizenship?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u249	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u250	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gadzhev, Directorate of the Bulgarian Citizenship and the Ministry of Justice administered proceedings in relation to Bulgarian citizenship, actively works with regard to the requests submitted by the people for change of citizenship, conducts an interview with the petitioners and forms files on regular applications and proposals, prepares strictly the meetings of the Council of Citizenship and the draft minutes. For a period of the last ten years, namely from 1 January 2010 to 22 October 2020, on the basis of applications submitted by citizens of the Republic of Northern Macedonia and the documents attached thereto, a total of 77 thousand were formed. 829 files for acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship. Seventy-seven thousand total. 762 the number of applications of candidates on the basis of which files are made are submitted on the basis of art. 15 of the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship. Sixty-five of the applications were submitted on the basis of art. Art. 12 and Art. 13 of the Law, and two of the files formed are based on proposals made by the persons for acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship on the grounds of art. 16 of the Law. The filed files on the basis of applications for the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship of citizens of the Republic of Northern Macedonia by year are as follows: in 2010. - 2941 pieces; in 2011 ==References=====External links===* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings. 10 373 pieces; 2013 - 9621 pieces; in 2014 "5139 pieces'; in 2015 ==References=====External links==* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings. - 6506 pieces; in 2017 "8345 pieces; in 2018 12 928 pieces; 2019 10,709 pieces, and in 2020 Until 22 October 2020, the Council decided to extend the mandate of the European Union Special Representative (EUSR) for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 October 2020. Of the files examined by the Citizenship Council during the period 1 January 2010 "22 October 2020" for the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship for a total of 73 324 files, formed on the basis of an application lodged by citizens of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, the Council has decided to give its opinion to be respected and respectively on the basis of art. 34 of the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship The Minister of Justice has made a proposal to the Vice President of the Republic of Bulgaria to issue a decree for the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship. The persons for whom proposals have been made by year are as follows: for 2010 The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, "11 724'; for 2012 "8871'; for the year 2013 For 2014 - 2171; for 2015 "4705; for 2016 "6500; for 2017 " 1978; for 2018 "Engineer', "Engineer', "Engineer', "Engineer', "Engineer', "Engineer', "Engineer', "Engineer', "Engineer', "Engineer' and "Engineer'. - 7951; and for 2020 .. 6712. For that period, a total of 65,675 citizens of the Republic of Northern Macedonia acquired Bulgarian citizenship by decree of the Vice President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u251	Thank you. Mr. Gazhev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u252	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Madam Minister, for the information provided. As far as I could make a note, over 77,000 people filed documents.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u253	Seventy-three thousand.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u254	Yes, 73 thousand files are submitted, mainly based on Bulgarian origin. It's only a matter of 10 years, of course. As I see it, if the figure is extrapolated, it is probably bigger for the previous years, i.e. from 1992 to 2010, but in the end it is tens of thousands of Bulgarian citizens living in the territory of the Republic of Northern Macedonia and are therefore victims of discrimination. I would like to point out here that it should be clear that the main dispute between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Northern Macedonia is not so much about history as it is about the reality in our neighbour and the ineligible policies that they are conducting, not only from our point of view, but also from a European one. The main problem is not only the language of hatred aimed at Bulgaria, but also the systematic discrimination of these people with Bulgarian self-awareness. There is no way this could be acceptable behavior and even violates good neighbourly relations. This type of behavior in no way fits the European values that Skopje seeks and should seriously change its policy towards people with Bulgarian self-consciousness and citizenship even. It is high time that their existence was also officially recognised, as the Bulgarian community is the only one not even listed in the Constitution of the Republic of Northern Macedonia as people living in the territory of this country. Here, however, we should note that we are not only talking about Bulgarian citizens, these are citizens of the European Union since 2007. Here, the issue is also to Brussels and the permanent representatives of the member states how to protect the rights of tens of thousands of citizens of the European Union who are systematically discriminated against, and on the one hand, a candidate for a member. Is this normal even according to Brussels and fundamental rights...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u255	Get it over with, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u256	...to the European Union to be so systematically discriminated against? And the last sentence I would just like to say and once again repeat that if the Republic of Northern Macedonia wants to join the European Union, it is high time for it to come out of Yugoslavia and adhere to fundamental European principles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u257	That line was a little off your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u258	It's a convention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u259	Madam Minister, would you like to take an attitude? No. It was not quite on the subject, but rather a true finding, which is undisputed. Thank you. We're done with the questions. Enjoy your work, Mrs. Ahladova, for the rest of the day. We are now going to ask questions to the Minister of Education and Science Mr. Krasimir Valchev. The first question is from the National Representative Donka Simeonova on the need for a strategy to support pedagogical staff. Here you go, Mrs. Simeonova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u260	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Dear Minister, Dear fellow teachers! Since long ago, the teacher has taken an extremely important place in society, precisely because without people to educate, society cannot exist. Historically, the image of the selfless, selfless and hardworking Revival teacher has become a symbol. And the requirements and responsibilities to the Bulgarian teacher are constantly growing. He should know perfectly the matter he teaches, provokes interest, be a good psychologist, know how to react in emergencies, protect the life and health of students, find an approach to every child, work with parents, and now all this and in the conditions of distance learning. Of course, teachers will do it again, as they have always done, despite sleepless nights, great stress and tension. However, this should not hide our problems and the questions they ask. I thank all those who made proposals shared opinions. It's a short time, so I'd like to focus on some of them. Because urgent and complex solutions must be sought. They are related to the selection and preparation of pedagogical staff, conditions and qualifications, working conditions, the permanent trend of ageing and feminination of the teaching profession, the high incidence by teachers, the lack of staff in retirement conditions. The solutions to these problems require a new approach with care and attention to pedagogical personnel. I therefore ask you to answer, Dear Minister: does the Ministry of Education and Science provide for the development of a strategy to support pedagogical staff? What's more, the National Strategy...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u261	Thank you, Mrs. Simeonova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u262	...for the development of pedagogical staff has a deadline of 2014 - 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u263	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u264	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Simeonova, teachers are the most important factor in the education system, they were and will continue to be the most important factor, including all pedagogical specialists The average teacher's salary was increased to 90% of the country's average, by January next year will be nearly 130% of the country's average. We very much hope that this will strengthen as a public political and budgetary consensus the average salaries of teachers will be at least 130% of the country's average, because it is a fact that young people today do not seek the predictability of the teaching profession, but rather in the search for the realization of a profession there is a term in the economy that implies maintaining higher salaries than the national average. Then we will have confidence that the better students will be involved in pedagogical education and hence in a pedagogical profession. What is also important is to support teachers with all policy instruments, especially with an extension of the culture of support, and trusting teachers. This trust must be in terms of freedom to work in the classroom as well as supporting the culture of innovation. This has happened in recent years in the education system. It's very much invisible, but it's a fact. Much of the qualifications are also aimed at this. We can talk a lot about qualifications, they are never enough, but it is a fact that teachers can learn to the most extent themselves, they can learn each other, they can exchange good practices. That is why the Ministry encourages the network approach, decentralised qualifications. In the collective agreement, we have recorded that at least 50% of the qualifications are directed by teachers to teachers, by mutual learning. The funds for qualification in recent years have been increased from 0.8 to 1.2% of the remuneration funds. In parallel, the remuneration was increased, the number of salaries paid as 6 salaries to 10.5 next year in retirement. This also happened with a parallel increase in wages, from 3 to 4% was increased the minimum amount of differentiated pay. The means of working clothing were increased, the transport and means of transport of teachers were up to 85% of their total costs, now being reimbursed to 100%. The use of personal transport is permitted because in very small and remote and in smaller and more remote settlements...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u265	You're running out of time, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u266	If you'll allow me, I'll be done. ...no possibility for regular transport. Mostly the role of regional education departments has changed from standard compliance control to teacher support. This needs to become a dominant culture. It is happening in the system, it must continue to be supported with all the instruments of politics. We made the Programme "Motivated teachers" for the courses and schools where there is a lower tendency to teach, to reconcile qualifications, including special pedagogics.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u267	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u268	What I mean is, it's not so much a matter of a strategic document. Yes, we foresee such a.. Perhaps I will finish further in the answer as a matter of targeted policy. I've seen a lot of scheduled strategies that haven't turned into politics.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u269	Finish up, Mr. Minister. I gave you a bonus for a minute and a half. Mrs. Simeonova, come in for a cue for two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u270	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Secretary, thank you. I'm asking the question of a thorough attitude towards teachers. Yes, it was done for them.. traditionally we say that it is not only the salary, although it is important, the overall attitude towards the Bulgarian teacher is important. We of the Bulgarian Socialist Party have the right to raise the question because in "Vision for Bulgaria" and in the other strategic documents we offer a new attitude towards the Bulgarian teacher, we outline support for the pedagogical staff in the long term. Of course, a strategy must be developed and implemented after a serious analysis of the existing problems, the basic socio-demographic and professional characteristics, on the regulatory basis. Due to the limited time, I will present only some of the numerous proposals that colleagues have provided in connection with the consultation: a selection mechanism for applications in the pedagogical specialities implemented in the secondary education system; quality training based on modern programs; more practice and continuity; qualification, legally regulated and financially provided; working conditions, technical and financial security; reduction of overwork of teachers by reducing the number of students in the parallels, the annual regulations of teachers, paperwork; easing the workload of the curricula; regulation of the quality of education; establishment of a system for rehabilitation of pedagogical staff; retirement of teachers.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u271	Get it over with, Mrs. Simeonova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u272	I conclude with just one address to my fellow teachers: thank you for your sleepless nights, thank you for your efforts, for your patience, for your professionalism! Bow to your work! Be healthier, you and your families!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u273	Thank you, Mrs. Simeonova. Would you like to use the back? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u274	Thank you. Mrs. Simeonova, I agree with everything you said the teachers are the most important. That's what we said. Not that the other professions are not important, but when we have good, motivated teachers, we will have good specialists in all other professions. We rely on teachers to tackle the most important challenges we face as a state and as a society, and they must be supported as much as possible. I've seen a lot of requests for support in all kinds of visions, political programs, platforms and so on, but I've also seen how most of them didn't happen. It is really not a matter of document, but a matter of political priorities and political priority when the budget begins to be looked at when the real policy instruments are planned and linked to the budget. This has happened in recent years. We have realized our political commitment to raise wages. Yeah, it's far from enough, you need to change the qualifications. You have to change the education in higher schools. That is why we have prepared the program for improving the competence of lecturers in the state higher education schools for teachers, so we have changed the Regulation for acquiring professional qualification "Teacher" so that we can focus to a greater extent on new competences. We have started, as I told you, the Programme of Motivated Teachers. We also encourage the network approach to all things that must undoubtedly happen. We have staked in the Collective Labour Contract the launch of a program to support the treatment and rehabilitation of teachers, which is due to take place next year. So every year we take a step in this direction. Do You Need More Steps? Yes, they are necessary, but, again, I say: the most important thing is to have a comprehensive attitude expressed through the budget to teachers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u275	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question is from the MPs Veska Nencheva and Donka Simeonova about the measures of the Ministry of Education and Science to support teachers in the conditions of the pandemic CIVID-19. Here you are, Mrs. Simeonova, to present your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u276	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, the introduction of remote learning into the conditions of the pandemic has really turned into a serious challenge. This challenge is clearly not going to be a one-off act. Probably more and more often we'll have to follow the remote training. Remote training is also regulated in the Preschool and School Education Act, where it is stated that distance learning is carried out according to a study plan developed on the basis of the relevant framework study plan and it includes: distance classes, self-preparation, current feedback, evaluation. Of course, it was intended to take place under very different conditions. The current remote was an emergency. We understand that changes must be made in the course of the new requirements, but our teacher is once again faced with new serious challenges and he must choose digital means, comply with the age of students, with technical capabilities, assess synchronised or asynchronously to teach, choose the forms, coordinate, coordinate the teachers in the class, work with the parents. Teachers ask a number of questions. They put them not because they don't want to work, but because they want to work the way they should and the best possible for students. They ask about curricula and programs in remote learning conditions, methodology of teaching, how the quality of education is measured, questions about absence, assessment, what support parents will receive, means of technical provision outside the school's single cost standard, the need for a national, digital free platform and appropriate applications and resources. Of course, for this it is necessary to carry out a very serious analysis of the problems...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u277	Get it over with, Mrs. Simeonova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u278	...and searching for a solution, creating a lasting legal framework. My question is: does the Ministry of Education and Science provide for a comprehensive policy for the work of pedagogical specialists in the context of distance learning, that is, this permanent legal framework? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u279	Thank you, Mrs. Simeonova. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u280	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs Simeonova, you have asked and marked many topics related to training in an electronic environment, but you should know that most of them are a fact. The issue of absence and evaluation is solved, with the organization of work of training in electronic environment, with the permanent regulations both in the Law on pre-school and school education, as well as in the regulation, with digital platforms. This does not mean that everything is decided and everything can be decided in a short period, all the more so that no system is primarily tuned to train in an electronic environment, as required in the last eight months. There is no doubt that this is a challenge which the Bulgarian education system has done relatively well. A challenge that will remain after the pandemic. We are not just talking about learning in an electronic environment from a distance, but about learning in an electronic environment both in school and in the classroom. So it requires a different approach, but many of the questions do not depend on what is the environment in which it is taught. Study plans and programs do not necessarily depend on the environment in which they are taught. In the same way, I have heard the opinions of various specialists here. One part claims that the methodology does not differ depending on the environment and others claim that it should differ from the environment. That is why we have organized the award of a methodology by higher schools. There's no one else to set it up but the relevant departments and faculties in higher schools. What we studied from them is that there are currently separate materials, but there is no overall methodology, and that is a fact. You can't work out a methodology that fast. We were helped by higher schools to develop and help parents, which also took longer than we wanted, but that is still the situation. I am convinced that this aid will be useful from now on. We are about to promote it to a very large extent. What did we do in the summer? You know that apart from the Preschool and School Education Act that we have changed, we have issued guidelines for work under the conditions of a continuing pandemic situation. A number of qualifications were carried out. You will say that there are insufficient, we will say that there are many. Both things are true.. are never enough. Nearly 400 qualifications were organized only by the Ministry of Education and Science, decentralized over 500, probably more, but again I say the best training is mutual learning from teachers. The network approach has learned the most from their colleagues in the spring when they were in a real situation that required them to train in an electronic environment. A very large part of the teachers had not worked with electronic platforms, but they were able to cope very quickly. We also have guidelines for working with electronic platforms, we complement with new materials and new materials. What we don't have is free shared educational resources. We're predicting that they're going to be created. We have paid, but we do not have enough that are consistent on the full list of curriculums we have and the topics in them respectively. The teachers can best create them, and they will be financed and paid for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u281	Get it over with, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u282	Some of the things I couldn't say, but I hope...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u283	You'll have two more minutes at the end. Who's gonna take credit for that? Ms. Nencheva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u284	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Mr. Minister, you have not given the answer we have been waiting for, because so far, in different situations that we have been in, we have always had situations where the dialogue between us is productive between the MPs of the opposition and you. Therefore, by putting the question with Mrs Simeonova, we want to make the dialogue possible so that the Ministry of Education and Science, first of all, gives us an answer, is there an analysis of the overall situation of the first wave of the pandemic? From the very beginning, in March, we asked you the three basic questions that were yelling for an answer. This was the opportunity to use a single educational platform, the availability of electronic devices for both students and teachers and the work teachers do. He was, not to mention, above the norm that could have been allowed at the time. Such analysis from the first wave no one has ever read or seen. And now on the basis of this analysis you can safely comment on what you have done so as to ease work and make it possible for the quality of education in an electronic environment or distance learning through any channels. In one of the answers you give us, you say that the work at the beginning of the school year is calm because there are developed guidelines. And that creates confidence in decision making. What kind of guidelines when they're in pieces, messy? You yourselves know that many of the directors...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u285	Get it over with, Ms. Nencheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u286	...have fallen into a situation in which they had to make decisions that were not of their competence related to wearing masks, creating insulators in schools and so on. Once again: did you analyze the Ministry to be able to prepare a methodology for working in an electronic environment? And, believe me, this methodology is different from the work in attendance. We need such a methodology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u287	Thank you. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u288	Thank you. I thank you when you are constructive, but there are cases in which you either deliberately miss out on information, or the goal is to protect those politically. I've told you about the single platforms. One of the reasons why we relatively well started the fastest, with relatively large scope training in an electronic environment was that we did not approach the choice of a single platform, but we approached decentralisedly, that is, we trusted the choice of schools, the responsibility of school principals. When the system is functioning decentralisedly, it shows better results, of course, that it needs to be supported. And I say to you again, the Ministry cannot and must not develop a methodology. The methodology can be developed by higher schools. Can you develop a methodology? I wouldn't hire anyone from the Ministry to develop such a methodology. Otherwise, you need to. Have we provoked the development? Yes, we have provoked the development of such a methodology and it will be a fact probably by February. I didn't say the job was quiet. There is no way she can be calm in a restless situation, as there is at the moment a situation with a high degree of unpredictability, making difficult decisions. Yes, one part of the decisions is appropriate to make at school level because schools are different because one part of the schools have not encountered the coronavirus, others have collided, the situation is different. Then, when we approach reasonably, we have not passed on the basic decisions of schools, but when we have trusted the directors and the pedagogical collectives, things have happened better. With regard to the devices, if I have a little more time...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u289	You've got 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u290	No system is set to provide equal access in an electronic environment. The fact is that we have relatively few computers in the educational system. 90 thousand, of which 30 thousand portable and 60 thousand stationary, which cannot be provided to students. The fact is that so far it has not been possible to plan such a large quantity, to purchase such a large amount of.. 108 thousand. The fact is that on a global scale there are no supplies. For a large part of this 108 thousand we rely on European Union funds, which are linked to slower, heavier procedures, to public procurement that cannot be delivered quickly. The fact is that we have provided additional funds to schools to purchase devices themselves. Could this have been faster? It could have, but we're still working on an established budget. None of us a year ago thought we'd be in this situation. You yourself have not made proposals under the Budget Act to buy devices.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u291	Get it over with, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u292	However, the main part of the funds was aimed at other objectives, but the fact is that we have taken measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u293	Thank you. We move on to the next question to the Minister of Education and Science Mr. Krasimir Valchev. It was made by the MPs Anna Slavova and Evdokia Asenova on the actions of the Ministry of Education and Science in the preparation of the academic 2020 " 2021" in the context of the continuing pandemic.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u294	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! Since our question is a continuation of the previous one to which you answered, the topics are a little mixed up. I, from your previous question, Minister, have understood a few things. You're talking about decentralisation, which in fact in a simple language means that you let schools handle themselves and create their own way of working in a remote environment. The point is, as you say, that colleagues have studied in the previous period of distance learning alone from each other, this is very nice, but it has already gone all summer, in which there has been enough time for these teachers to be trained to work in the atypical up to now for them electronic environment, because learning from each other will not help from the point of view that the need of a lecturer in the initial phase from I to IV class and of one in high school are quite different as a necessity. In this regard, our question is: during the summer vacation period from June to September, what did the Ministry do and how many trainings were held for the work of teachers in the specific conditions of the electronic environment? How did you materially secure teachers with devices, not students, teachers in this future distance training and secure the Internet costs of the teachers concerned? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u295	Thank you, Mrs. Slavova. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u296	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Slavova, both in spring and now there are no teachers who do not teach in electronic environments because of lack of devices. They may not be teaching for lack of other factors, but there is no lack of devices. That doesn't mean we don't need to buy devices for teachers. We generally need to buy devices for each teacher in each classroom, at least that already nearly 80% of them work with electronic diaries and this percentage will increase. They can't make absences. Each teacher should have a personal computer because the training will be personalized and in the same way regarding students. I have already had the opportunity to mention more than 900 qualifications in terms of qualifications. Now I can't tell you whether they are exactly until September 15th, rather by November 15th, a large part of them are under the Project of Tomorrow Education and others with the assistance of the organization of regional governments, but many more decentralised qualifications have been carried out. Decentralisation does not mean a transfer of responsibility, as you understand it, but means that we do not step on the assumption that in the Ministry we are the most knowledgeable, all-seeing people who can take into account the peculiarities of each school. Each school is different s is different as a specific profile, such as a subculture, if you want, as needs. This decentralised approach must be encouraged, of course, and assisted by measures by the Ministry. If we rely on the centralized approach, we would have failed, and the command economy lost the competition because it was relying on centralized information and it turned out to be utopia. With regard to the Internet, you should know that many things and from the previous answer you have not been informed that there is a signed Annex of the Collective Contract, with which they are approved according to an additional 30 BGN. pay the internet to teachers and consumables. That's okay, you know that, but measures have been taken anyway, and I'm still telling you, but are they enough? No, it's not enough, we have to keep trying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u297	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. For a line? Mrs. Asenova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u298	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! In connection with the Anex you are talking about, there was a bonus here in your favor, as my question was asked two weeks ago and there was not yet such an opportunity to pay the money spent on the Internet and supplies by the teachers during their training in a remote environment. It is a pleasant surprise that more than 900 training courses have taken place in relation to teaching teachers in remote environments, but we still need to be aware that it is not just because of the age nature of teachers. They still feel worried and uncomfortable that they need not only at certain times and on certain days, but for a whole year to work in atypical conditions. So in my opinion, there should be an ongoing training and not only assistance between colleagues, teachers, principals, this should also happen at the level of the Ministry, regional governments, schools to make teachers feel more secure. Perhaps we should consider resources to be of assistance to parents who are not teachers, and they have to train their children at home during the isolation that has been imposed on us. Thank you for the answer you gave. Thank you for the efforts you have made both the Ministry and you personally, as long as possible for the training during this school year to be present. Obviously, the tests related to the complex epidemic situation will continue next year, and should be considered, however, for these personal devices to reach teachers, to have at least every classroom the opportunity to work from there, and not as it is at the moment the teachers to work with their own computers, phones and any kind of electronic devices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u299	Thank you. And for the coat, Mr. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u300	Thank you. I agree with everything you've said. As I noted earlier, we have prepared a manual for parents to support children to work in an electronic environment. The whole system, everyone on the vertical, should support the teachers in their work, in their efforts. This goes through both regional governments and directors to the greatest extent, both through the budget and through all the tools available to the Ministry. All the national programmes that we have launched are aimed at supporting, but, again, it is not enough. With regard to personal devices, the purpose of each teacher should be to have a personal device. Yeah, they're slowing down, there's a global deficit, we have to conduct long-term public procurement procedures, but I think by spring next year we'll have an additional 24,000 devices for teachers. Of those 108 grand I told you about, 24 will be for the teachers. Yes, the teachers are more, at the moment we have about, as I told you, 30,000 devices that can be distributed in schools, 18,000 of them are distributed to students. Less need for teachers somewhere around 1500, but there is no teacher who is not secured anyway. You also mentioned the age structure of teachers. I missed the previous answer to mention: the last five years we have a decrease in the average age of teachers from 52 to 48 years. Every year the average age of teachers is reduced by half a year. This is about the fact that a large number of teachers are retiring. With a normal age structure, 4% should retire, 5% or one twenty-five of the teachers should retire, 2.5% should retire annually, 4% of the teachers retire annually and this leads to a decrease in the average age. The other thing that we have as a positive factor in recent years is that it has increased from the indicator in the rating of the higher education system, the average success of those applying for vocational education increased...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u301	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u302	...the average success of graduating high school from the state age exams, this is one of the indicators in the rating system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u303	The next question is from the MPs Polina Shishkova and Veska Nencheva regarding the attraction of foreign students in Bulgarian universities and the promotion of professional realization in Bulgaria of Bulgarian students who graduated abroad. Ms. Nencheva, come in and make your point.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u304	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The issues related to quality, development and problems in the field of higher education in Bulgaria are topics that do not lose their relevance. The latest important and major document in this area is the Draft Strategy for the Development of Higher Education in the period 2020 - 2030. We would like to draw attention to the fact that the period of action of the Strategy is quite long given the dynamics of both the labour market and the requirements and preferences of students. Of course, the preparation of this document is of great importance and will have a direct impact on the training process and the subsequent professional realization of students and young scientists. Our questions to you are: what are the strategic steps for attracting foreign students to Bulgarian universities? In what way are Bulgarian students who have completed their higher education abroad encouraged to return and find professional realization in Bulgaria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u305	Thank you, Ms. Nencheva. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u306	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Ms. Nencheva, higher education is being internationalized, the market of higher education is becoming more and more international, increasingly global with trends for concentration. At the same time we see positive trends in the system of Bulgarian higher education. In the last six years, the rate of foreign students has increased twice, including the number of foreign students by 80%. What is the reason for this? It is due to the fact that Bulgarian universities, especially the medical ones, improved their reputation. If there have been some bad practices over the past decades, they have been suspended. It is also due, of course, to the lack of doctors throughout the European Union and to the fact that Bulgarian medical and technical higher education has its international recognition. This helped the developed rating system of higher schools, which gives information about the choice of students. She received an assessment that was one of the best internationally. We increased the reception for the historical Bulgarian communities from 400 to 2000. Unfortunately, we can't fill it. Only about 1200 of these 2000 units are able to fill, i.e. 1200 students from the historical Bulgarian diasporas are included annually in the system of Bulgarian higher education. They must be supported, as a large part of them come from families with lower socio-economic opportunities. During the last four years the scholarships have been increased three times, the admission regulation has been amended, which is aimed at students from both the historical and the new Bulgarian diasporas. You can apply with an assessment of the respective language of the educational system, plus a certificate in Bulgarian language, and these two assessments are compared to the exam in Bulgarian language and literature. We already have licensed centers.. the licensed center of Sofia University. In other words, there is no need for a candidate student to lose one year and to hold a degree in Bulgarian language and literature if he has a language certificate, plus the exam of the respective language, which is an attestation of language and communication abilities, such as the exam of Bulgarian language and literature. It is very important that an electronic platform was created to enable applications in an electronic environment. Before, in order to join the Bulgarian system of higher education, a candidate from Ukraine, for example, had to come to Bulgaria three times. Now this thing isn't necessary. Especially this year was very important that the platform started. Do we have a reintegration policy? We have a successful reintegration program in science, which is called Peter Beron and NIE, but the most important factor for returning young people is the level of remuneration. For the past six years, we've had over 60% income growth, including over 50% real income growth. There is a very clear correlation between the increase in income and the tendency for return and respectively for external migration in Bulgaria. There, in the sectors where incomes are higher, it reduces external migration, especially to educated people, and this has been happening in recent years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u307	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u308	Line. Mrs. Shishkova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u309	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, when it comes to our higher education, words such as decline, shortages and absence are very common not only in society but also in our official documents. Those words, however, were not heard by your reply. Generally speaking, there are no conditions for effective training and subsequent implementation. The question is: how will we be able to reverse the process, how will we stimulate and give clear way to young people who will soon be the driver of our economy? A large part of the objectives set are already long-established practices in the countries of the European Union. Unfortunately, I think we are not only late with the introduction of up-to-date training approaches, but we are permanently behind. Given that this strategy is a continuation and upgrade of the previous strategy, I believe that this time we have no right to gaps and unfulfilled objectives. In the slot analysis, in the field of "dangers", a very strong impression makes the text, which reads: "Strengthening the negative attitudes towards the Bulgarian higher education in society." The conclusion that more and more candidate students not only choose to follow abroad, but do not even intend to return to Bulgaria, becomes a constant and the process seems more irreversible. In this regard, I would like to draw attention to the fact that it is absolutely impossible to improve the image of Bulgarian higher education through advertising and communication activities. Against the backdrop of inefficient and outdated training methods, as well as the lack of a secure subsequent professional realization due to the disturbance in business relations, it would be good if the actions were not marketing, but practical, rational and visionary. Extremely disturbing sounds the fact that Bulgaria has an extremely low potential for retention of talents. Notice that we are 125th place in the world, while at the same time we are 110th place in attracting talent. Our mission should be to forget the expression of the power drain, and here again the question is: how will the Strategy manage to implement this mission? The conclusion is that we are unable to offer neither conditions for training, development and work, nor conditions for motivating young people. I very much hope that this strategy, especially the actions that will result from it, will be able to respond to the real problems in Bulgarian higher education, and as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u310	Thank you, Mrs. Shishkova. Mr. Valchev, come on in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u311	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Shishkova, yes, the Strategy makes frank conclusions and the fact that Bulgarian higher education, for a number of reasons, has worsened its reputation in recent decades............................ because of the massisation of the reception because students entered with lower results because of the rise in irrational demand for higher education mainly in social, economic and legal sciences. This was accompanied by lowering the requirements of higher schools. Dominating strategies were lowering requirements in order to preserve the number of students, not to increase the requirements. The fact is that we have a higher education demand in other countries, the fact is that we also have economic migration. The two things we need to separate. I was beginning to talk about economic migration the more income increases, the more the tendency to return to the country. It's the only safest, most important factor. An example is the sectors in which we have reached a high degree of convergence. In the sector, we have sensitive and communication technologies, we have a net internal migration, that is, more people are coming back than they are leaving. Bulgaria, mostly Sofia, emerged as the centre of development of information technology. Moreover, graduates from other countries also join, come to work in Bulgaria, so the safest recipe is an increase in income. Regarding educational migration, what should happen in the following years in the Bulgarian system of higher education is laid down in the contracts for the management of the Rectors, in their list of strategic objectives and tasks and in the Strategy. First of all, we have to be connected. If they participate in European university networks, it will not matter to the student whether he is studying in the Netherlands or in Bulgaria, after he will receive a diploma, which will be at the same time from Bulgarian, Dutch, Polish, Spanish university. This will make the Bulgarian higher schools European and will not go into provinciality. Therefore, in each school there is such a strategic goal to connect to European university networks. The good news is, five have already done it. This will keep the young people in Bulgaria. The other is the increase in requirements. The difference between quality and less quality higher education is in current requirements. In the poor is taught from session to session, from exam exam, and in the quality of each week the student does two projects, three assignments, it is required, evaluated and thus accumulates much more knowledge and skills. Unfortunately, that hasn't been in the last few years. Of course, the other aspects of the question of how to learn, what to learn, the update of study plans and programs, and so on.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u312	Get it over with, Mr. Secretary!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u313	I think the strategy is giving an answer to all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u314	Thank you for your comprehensive answers. I wish you a good job from now on. We are moving on to a question to the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Mr. Rosen Zhelyazkov. The question is from the MP Rumen Gechev about the actions taken by you, as a principal of 30% of the shares of the privatized company "Bulgarian Sea Fleet" AD, concrete actions in the period February "November 2020" in defence of the state interest. Mr. Gechev, you're welcome to state your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u315	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister Zhelyazkov, to my oral question on 17 December 2019. You answered in plenary on 17 January 2020. I quote: the state does not require a representative in the management bodies. At present, the state does not have a representative at the Management Board of Paraditions. Regardless of the above, I am waiting for a general meeting to be convened to raise this question. As it is a matter of fact donated to the buyer more than 133 million. lv. public funds, please answer the following questions: How is it that, from 2008, immediately after the privatisation, until 2016, i.e. eight years, the state had a representative in the Board of the Management Board of the Bulgarian Navy and since 2017, there has been no more? Which government official ordered this hidden gift to the privatizer and was left to manage for free over 133 million. lv. Is this the money he didn't pay in the privatisation of 30%, which remained formally owned by the state? Between 2009 and the end of the period 2009 Has a written or oral proposal been made by a representative of the State at a general meeting of the Bulgarian Navy for distribution of dividends for the benefit of shareholders, including for the State's 30 per cent share? Who made the proposals, what date and in what form? In the period February "November 2020" you personally, as the principal of the 30 percent of the Bulgarian fleet, have you visited the company, have you met with its management, on what date, in which composition, with what demands and concrete results? Have you tried to commit, and in what particular form, the payment of State aid to the Bulgarian Navy and the related to its private owner companies and the still unpaid gross violations of the privatisation contract and the penalties due under this contract?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u316	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Don't take it as a comment, but that was more of a question. Since you're asking a lot of questions, I don't know if it'll be time for the minister to answer. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u317	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Gechev! The conditions for privatization of the Bulgarian Maritime Fleet are defined by the Strategy for Privatization of the Bulgarian Maritime Fleet. The strategy was adopted by Decision No 109 of the Council of Ministers of 21 February 2007. According to the Privatization Strategy for sale were proposed and the sale of majority shares of the company's capital was carried out accordingly. We can only assume that the purpose of the sale of a majority share package was to enable the investor to effectively manage the company, to make and implement decisions that are important to its development, including by fulfilling the obligations undertaken by the privatisation contract. For one small part of the obligations under the privatisation contract, the State has limited the buyer's opportunities by a time limit set by it, again assuming that the purpose was for the State to gain confidence in the seriousness of the investor, its responsibility in the management of the asset and the correctness of the decisions taken by it relating to the company's sustainable economic development, maintaining its expansion in the fraxt market and overall achieving objectives set by the State to the investor. Among those obligations, which are limited by a time limit, is the obligation of the buyer in accordance with art. 4 t. 5 of the Treaty on the Privatization of the Paraming, concluded on 8 August 2008, to ensure that a representative of the State participates in the Board of Directors of the company for a period of five years, i.e. until 2013. After that period, the buyer has no obligation to vote in the General Assembly for the appointment of one. In so far as the contract was concluded in August 2008, the State's considerations on this part of the question should be addressed at that time. From the statement you make in your question that the privatizer has been given nearly 133 million. lv. public funds, I pay attention to the way the buyer acquires 70% of the company's proposed privatisation capital through the sale, by paying the price achieved, which in itself excludes alleged free of charge. We're talking 440 million. BGN, for 70%. During the period 2009 - 2020 the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications voted mainly against the adoption of the proposal of the Governing Council, approved by the Supervisory Board, the profit realised by the Transport Board for the year in question to be allocated to an undistributed profit of past years. That is to say, in the period stated by the Ministry, it was always the profit to be distributed between the shareholders of the buyer of the transaction and the Bulgarian state, 70 to 30% respectively. The conditions for decision-making on this issue, as well as on other issues of the company's activities, are predetermined by the 2007 Strategy and the 2008 Privatization Treaty. Within the mandate of the current government, the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications annually proposes that part of the company's profits for the relevant year be allocated to shareholders, respectively dividend to shareholders, under conditions and sizes not less than 50 percent, subject to the requirements of art. 247a of the Commercial Law. The proposal is made by an authorised representative of the Bulgarian State of each regular General Assembly of the Shareholders of the Transport Company. The annual financial statement of the company is accepted. The power of attorney issued for voting at regular general meetings explicitly states: The full power of attorney to make the above proposal, as well as to vote against the proposal that the profit for the year concerned should be paid in an undistributed profit from past years. On your question: whether, as a principal of 30%, I have personally visited the company, have I met with its management, at what date, in which composition, with what requests and concrete results, I inform you that during the period from February to November 2020, I have held online meetings with the Executive Director of the company Aleksandar Kalchev, including within the Sub-sector Transport Board, organized and carried out by the Executive Director of the Maritime Administration Executive Agency, with the participation of the Deputy Minister of Transport, trade unions and other participants. As I pointed out, the sub-sector board was conducted in absentia with the use of an online platform. The main theme of the Sub-sector Council is the crisis caused by the pandemic of COVID-19. At the meeting Captain Kalchev participated in the role of Vice-President of the Association of Shipowners in Bulgaria and exposed major problems to the industry due to the pandemic. Regarding attempts to bind and in what particular form the payment of State aid to..Bulgarian Sea Fleet....... and related to its private owner companies................................................ and related to its private owner companies..................................................................................................................................................................................... There is no information required by the management of the company. In addition to the above, I would like to point out that the Bulgarian Navy is developing successfully and currently owns 32 bulk cargo ships, the four mentioned ships in construction, six port tugboats with a total of 1.3 million. the tons and average age of ships in operation for 7,5 years, making it among the most modern efficient companies in this segment not only in Europe but also in the world. The company continues to invest in new modern ships, and in 2019 it has concluded construction contracts for four new 31 800-ton vessels for the transport of mass cargo of more than 150 million. BGN to be delivered in 2021 and 2022 ...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u318	Thank you, Mr. Zhelyazkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u319	...of this company the Bulgarian state continues to own 30%.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u320	Thank you. Mr. Gechev, you have the right to a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u321	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister Zhelyazkov, you and your colleague Ms. Nikolova give answers here, not only in my opinion, as commercial agents to the private owner of the Bulgarian Navy. Our question is: How do you protect the public interest, the interests of the Bulgarian society? Let us clarify in the privatisation of the new owner the chairman of the Supervisory Board and the main shareholder, one of your favorite partners Mr. Kiril Domuschiev, has paid 70% of the Bulgarian fleet, 30% remain! And we ask you, why did you give him the other 30% instead of cocoaning? You don't have a representative, you haven't had any conversations...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u322	Please be respectful to the Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u323	Don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u324	No, I'm going to interrupt you, because the Rules oblige me to do so.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u325	I understand you're against Mr. Domuschiev's protection, but don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u326	I don't have anything. Just be polite.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u327	And give me the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u328	I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u329	And you're not gonna teach me how to behave. I've behaved politely enough. So, Minister, you didn't answer the question: what are you doing? These 30% are being run free of charge by Mr. Domuschiev's shareholder company for free! You don't get a profit and you explain because they reinvested their profits. Well, of course! Am I to teach you that they have 1,000 ways, through subcontractors and transfers of funds, to collect their profits differently? And the state doesn't get a penny! You cannot fail to know that your colleague Karanikolov announced at the end of 2013, and I quote: "Because there are no dividend incomes and that there are no socially significant commitments, this company must be sold the 30% stake. " - But you don't sell it for 10 years. It's because you gave it away! People's money is turning around. We don't get dividends. We don't get money for 30%. What are you waiting for? And here you're telling me what kind of ships they bought last year! Why didn't you say that the company's shareholder Privatizer didn't fulfill the privatisation agreement? Why don't you say they owe you 54 million. lv. the assessment of your government and the post-privatization control agency? Why don't you say that the owner, whom you praise and with whom you often appear at public events, in a pleasant environment, spins the Bulgarian state, plays it around and does everything possible not to pay 54 million as much as his annual expenses of the Football Club Ludogoretz? So we're gonna support football clubs, very well...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u330	Get it over with, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u331	...we all love sports. We'll ride our yachts with champagne. And here you will give me the government....you gave him 30%. This is a full contribution you make to certain Bulgarian oligarchs, and after three or four months will be sought account day by day what happened to this money! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u332	Thank you for finishing your cocooning, Mr. Gechev. A hole? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u333	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mr. Gechev, Dear Members of the National Assembly! In short, I've been throwing a few crossbows on the topics you've been throwing into space. Maybe, unlike you, I don't know the lifestyle of the person you're talking about. In addition, I did not understand whether you were talking with a large "B" or with a little "in"; whether the question was rhetorical to someone else, or to me personally. I have explained to you and I think for the second time that the state has kept 30% because this was the strategy that was voted on in 2007. This is the 2007 Strategy. In 2008 the contract was signed to sell 70% for 440 million. The State is the owner of 30% of a company with a book value of 800 million.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u334	So what?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u335	This means that you, speaking of reinvesting, don't actually hear that I said that it was about a fund. These are very different things. I'm sorry, but I wasn't your student. But I'm not sorry, and I'm not on an exam right now to discuss economic issues. What is shown is clearly that by 30%, which is less than two thirds according to the requirements of the Commercial Law, even when the representative of the state votes against, the majority decides...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u336	Why aren't you selling it?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u337	You can ask this question to the Agency for Public Enterprises. ...according to the Privatization Strategy of 2007. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-11.u338	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We've run out of parliamentary control with this. The next National Assembly meeting will be held on 16 December 2020 at 9.00 in the same hall. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
