ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. I will introduce you to a few messages, honourable Members, then I will give the floor on behalf of a parliamentary group. Messages: 1. The Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that by his order he has authorised the passage through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria of the non-military nature of an airplane with its crew from the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Azerbaijan. The authorisation shall be valid for the period from 24 to 28 September 2020 for a total of two flights for the transport of aviation parts and property. The order issued is within the competence of the Minister of Defence, referring to the assessment of the military parameters of the country's transition to defence. On issues concerning export control and compliance with international plantation regimes mandatory for the Republic of Bulgaria, the country's airspace clearance should be granted to the State concerned following a positive opinion from the competent authorities in these areas, the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. 2. For the period from 25 to 26 September 2020, a joint Bulgarian-American preparation will be held in the area of the joint Bulgarian-American facility Training polygon The joint training will be attended by soldiers from the joint command of the special operations of the Bulgarian Army and soldiers from the US Special Forces Forces with the necessary weapons and equipment and military aircraft with crew, forces and means of service and provision. The preparation shall not be related to military operations, preparatory actions to conduct upcoming or alleged military operations, or to activities to prevent military action conducted by others, another State or organisation of armed forces. The notifications were received on 23 and 24 September 2020 with entry No 003-09-76 and No 003-09-77, and were submitted to the Defence Committee, Department of Plenary Activities. 3. On 18 September 2020, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 18 September 2020 to 25 September 2020 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 18 September 2020 to 25 September 2020. 1 of the National Assembly Decision of 18 June 2020, information was received from the Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov regarding the debate on the questions of the MPs Georgi Yordanov, Georgi Mihailov, Ilian Timchev, Desislav Taskov, Valentina Naydenova, Ivan Ibrishimov and Anna Slavova to the Minister of Health on the Strategy for improving the working conditions and financial compensation for the Bulgarian medics. The material is sent to the MPs at their e-mail addresses and is available at the Library of the National Assembly. Mr. Yordanov, come in for a statement on behalf of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u2	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! 80 years ago South Dobrudja was returned to Mother Bulgaria for eternity. On today's date exactly 80 years ago, the citizens of Dobrich solemnly welcome the Bulgarian Army's troops, represented by the front squad of His Majesty's Leybwardean Horse regiment. On September 25, 1940, a thousand people had filled the streets and squares of the city since morning. The buildings are surrounded by the Bulgarian tribagrenik, a triumphant arch of flowers is erected, the mood is lifted, but there are also many tears of joy tears gushing from the eyes of young and old Dobrudjani who waited so long for the longing freedom, this time forever. On this day 80 years ago, Dobrich waited for his freedom, won not on the battlefield, but in the depths of diplomacy. Although it came as a bloodless act, the freedom for dobrudjans is an apotheosis in the struggles and wars of national liberation, in which hundreds of thousands of our countrymen shed their blood and laid their bones all over our ethnic land. By signing the Treaty of Krajova in early September Bulgaria permanently received its last territorial acquisition. The Bulgarian South Dobrudja is again within the borders of our country. The return of South Dobrudja is among the most significant events not only in the new Bulgarian but also in our history according to historians. For the first time, a territorial issue in the Balkans has been resolved peacefully. This is how the modern borders of our country are outlined, which remained unchanged in peacetime. This is an undeniable success of the sometimes underestimated Bulgarian diplomacy, noted by the contemporaries of events. In confirmation I will also quote part of King Boris III's throne speech at the opening of the Second Session of the Twenty-Five Common People's Assembly: The Lord of Members, I am particularly pleased to find that the foreign policy followed so far has given happy results. On 7 September this year, the governments of Bulgaria and Romania signed in Krajova a treaty under which South Dobrudja returned to the Bulgarian Kingdom. This event was met by the entire Bulgarian people with a burst of deep joy, and you, gentlemen of the National Assembly, have unanimously approved this treaty. The actual implementation of the Krajovski Treaty begins two weeks later. Many Dobrudjani with bovine cars and wagons spend days on the road for the first time to meet Bulgarian troops and officials, and when parts of the Bulgarian army and administration solemnly enter Dobrich on the morning of the 25th, the enthusiasm is unspeakable. With the funds collected by the Women's Society, the production of 5000 silk handkerchiefs with the face of Stefan Karadzha and the inscription: The liberation host from the grateful Dobrudjanka was ordered on the memorable day with these handkerchiefs all Bulgarian soldiers, officers and official guests of the city. Similar enthusiasm among the local Bulgarians was also in the spring of next year when the Bulgarian troops met in Macedonia, but unfortunately the historical events there do not have the happy outcome of the Dobrudzha question. With the return of South Dobrudja a historical injustice has been corrected, albeit partially. Partially because under this treaty 67 000 North Dobrudzha Bulgarians are forced to leave their father's outbreaks as part of the exchange of population between Bulgaria and Romania. But how fair is the exchange of local peoples, such as the Bulgarians in North Dobrudja, with Romanian colonists, settled in Dobrichko and Silistrensko between the two world wars, remains as a question for the historians. For us remains the memories of the stories of our ancestors of the events of September 1940, and the lesson remains the lesson that should guide us today.... when we all give our hand in the name of Bulgaria, we will succeed. Happy Thanksgiving, Dobrich! Happy Thanksgiving, Dobrudjani! Long live Bulgaria! [[Applause from all parliamentary groups.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u3	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. We move on to the first item of today's agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE LAW FOR LEGISLATIONS. The Report at the second reading will introduce us to Mrs Daritkova. Here you are, Mrs. Daritkova. [[Presidents change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u4	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On 10 September 2020, submitted by Daniela Anastasova Dharitkova-Prodanova on the first vote on 18 September 2020, adopted by Daniela Anastasova Dharitkova-Prodanova on the first vote on 18 September 2020. The Law on Medical Institutions is amended as follows: "The Law on Medical Institutions is amended as follows: "The Law on Medical Institutions and the Law on The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u5	Go on.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u6	Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5. t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6, para. 1 sentence 2 the word "orders' is replaced by "orders'. According to § 1, there is a proposal of the MP Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 1 et c. 2. The proposal has been withdrawn under paragraph 1. 3. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1, which shall become § 2. ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 63 the 1. In para. The second sentence is amended as follows: The Board of Directors of state and municipal hospital care institutions consists of three members. 2. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: . (3) Members of the management and control bodies of state and municipal medical institutions and of medical establishments with public and/or municipal participation in capital which are public undertakings within the meaning of the Public Enterprises Act shall be selected and appointed after a competition under the Law on Public Enterprises.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u7	Thank you. I open the debate on the title, § 1 and § 2. You have the floor for speeches, colleagues. I don't see anyone who wants to. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Here you go. Sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u8	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Doctor Daritkova, as an importer, the proposed amendment to the bill on medical institutions raises a number of questions, the most important of which is a change of an important parameter in the management of the health system. What's this about? In the current practice, hospitals are registered as EOOD. They have a single-level management system such as the Municipal Council, which plays the role of the General Assembly elects a governor after a competition. In this way, the management of the medical establishments is structured, which are state-owned entirely, where the Minister of Health plays the role of a principal and a General Assembly and he elects a manager after a competition. The proposed bill proposes the Board of Directors and the municipal hospitals, where it should be called the Board of Governors, because, when it is an EOOD, it is not a director, but it is called a manager, to consist of three people, or we add two other people who are the managers of the health institution. The municipal hospitals and hospitals in Bulgaria are about 140, yet between 20 and 30 are state hospitals, which have a single-level system of management, so about 170 hospitals. With this bill, we add 340 more people in charge because we are imperatively saying that the board of directors of state and municipal hospital care institutions consists of three members. At an average salary of about BGN 1500. We're adding another 6 million. BGN, with which we have to pay the salaries of the new members of the boards of directors or managers, provided that the duties of municipal hospitals and hospitals are already over 140 million, almost chasing 150 million. lv. I don't think we can let that happen. And where are we going to find 300 new hospital managers that are pointless because experience shows that where we have three board members, they meet at most once a month. The practice is between three and four times a year. We appoint two new people who will have real working hours from three to four days a year, but who will receive salary as managers. I don't think this thing's being considered. So I suggest it be withdrawn. Our parliamentary group will definitely not support it and will look for all possible ways if you accept it, it will drop out. Three hundred new hospital managers in Bulgaria in this state, in which we have over 700 million debts of the hospital system people who will do nothing, this poor Bulgaria cannot afford it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u9	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. - What's the line? Mrs. Daritkova to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u10	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I regret that the speaker was not present at the meetings of the Committee on Health, and that is probably where his delusion comes from, but once again I will try to explain what the necessary amendments to the Law on Medical Institutions come from, which we are proposing and voting now. A year ago, October, we adopted the Law on Public Enterprises, which is necessary to make and unify the management and functioning of all public enterprises in a way that meets the requirements, and it is a necessary condition for the adoption of Bulgaria in the waiting room of the Eurozone and the Banking Union. Hospital care establishments, which have more than 50% state and municipal participation, also fall within the scope of this law. In this regard, and the need for one year after that, i.e. October of this year, for medical institutions to bring their activities into line with this law, I am making changes that allow the specifics of hospitals as public undertakings to be taken into account and to ease the ability to work in a way that they have already worked and to enable managers of large public enterprises and hospitals to do teaching work in the first place. That's what we do with changing art. 20, para. 3 of the Law on Public Enterprises, and here we allow teaching activities not only to the managers of medical institutions, but to all operating managers of public enterprises. On the other hand, what we do in the Law on Medical Institutions keeps the current order, namely, as so far we have three people in the Boards of Directors, which concerns joint stock companies rather than single commercial companies. This is linked to the Commercial Law by which medical establishments are registered. So in no case do we aggravate, and, on the contrary, we make an exception, because, under the Public Enterprises Act, eight large public enterprises, six hospitals and two structures at the Ministry of Health, will have to have a Board of Directors of five people. That is why we are making this reduction on board in order to save money that comes from carrying out medical activities. On the other hand, we thus allow four months to postpone the entry into force of the Law on Medical Institutions so that we can clarify and clear all the other details that we encountered when we really got acquainted with the ways in which the medical institutions would operate under the Law on Public Enterprises. So we have four months at our disposal to bring the activities of medical institutions into place and make these legal changes that allow us to be able to function in the same way. Only eight large public undertakings will be selected through competition the management, the Board of Directors and the Executive Directors under the mechanism laid down in the Public Enterprises Act, namely through the Public Enterprises Agency. All other medical institutions will be supported by a competition in such a way as to date this happens to major public hospitals through the Ministry of Health, municipal hospitals through municipal councils. I want to distract one more misunderstanding that members of the Board of Directors can't work on employment contracts. There's no such thing. The ban on employment contracts concerns only executive directors, operational managers. It is simply that the Public Enterprises Act uses different terms to sum up all public undertakings in which both forest enterprises and different types of banks enter. This concerns only the operational director of the medical establishment. So there are no concerns and none of what has been pointed out is in line with the legislative provision. I ask you to support this law because it is in the interests of medical institutions and allows it within the next four months, in which we will postpone its entry into force, to be able to make other legislative changes if they are required. At the same time, at the beginning of the school year, executive directors who have teaching activities can conclude contracts under the Academic Board Act with the relevant higher schools and continue to teach. That's the point of this bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. Are there lines? Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u12	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues, dear Dr. Daritkova! Essentially, fellow Members, this is a fact that 300 new people of state cribs! Maybe GERB wants to put them on and there are people. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Okay, but Dr. Daritkova told us that there is a paragraph in the Public Enterprises Act that says that these public undertakings, which are created under special law, have another order for their unification. I won't tell you now, let him bother Dr. Daritkova to read it. So the reason that, you see, we are in dissonance with the Public Enterprises Act is simply not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u13	Thank you. Second line, Mrs. Naydenova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u14	Dear Mr. Chairman, Members of the National Assembly! I'm making the line because the question is repeatedly raised from the heights of this tribune: how long has this not happened, how long has it not happened? And I ask: why have the government been unable to bring the medical institutions into line with the requirements of the Public Enterprises Act for a year? Is that enough for four months to do it, or are we gonna bring in new, our own, our own people where they're supposed to be?! Not to mention the money Dr. Yordanov talked about. Until when?! I personally doubt that in four months if they couldn't do that for a year now they will. After all, tell me who did not do their job during this time, say his name at the Ministry of Health, and now we will towel the Law and drag it out until the end of our term?!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Naydenova. Is there a third line? I can't see. Would you like to use the backrest right now, Mrs. Daritkova? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u16	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Medical facilities are not created by a special law. The law on medical institutions is a law that determines the functioning, structure and operation of medical institutions. As companies they are created under the Commercial Law. The only hospitals that are established under a special law are medical establishments under art. 5, i.e. state hospitals, so I cannot enter into the hypothesis of public undertakings established under special law and therefore these changes are imposed. Ladies and gentlemen, I have indeed been referred to for a long time by the managers of major university hospitals because they have been warned that they will have a problem with teaching. However, in connection with the entry into ERM II, which happened in the summer, we did not have the opportunity to make changes to the Public Enterprises Act. Once this process is completed successfully, we are making this change, but at the same time we must argue very carefully to the Monitoring Committee because the health sector is considered to be one of the risk sectors and you know why. We do not increase the board of directors in any way. On the contrary, do the math yourself. With the change I'm making, and with the exception of five, the requirement of the Public Enterprises Act, I'm leaving three, as so far, that is, there will be no the higher number of board of directors of medical institutions and they will function and be managed as ever. So I ask you to stop speculating, to broadcast ambiguities and inaccuracies, because this is more or less a reflection in public space and people are experiencing anxiety. I ask you to be responsible MPs, not to politicize every single topic and support these changes because they are in the interests of medical institutions. And the next four months, if there are any more discrepancies and inaccuracies, and we are able to protect them before the Monitoring Committee with regard to medical institutions, make sure that the functioning of medical institutions remains within the limits of the current parameters or in any more relaxed extent in relation to the adoption of the amendments to the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. Mr. Mikhailov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I feel more and more that we are in the situation of the Tower of Babel. Here at the first reading of the Law there were threatening, ridiculous and passionate statements about how the lawmaker did not understand what he was doing, and then there was an explosion of phone calls to everyone. There are colleagues in this House who even told the Commission that thing. Then it was that the terms that were in the bill were loaded, that they were incorrect, that they were not understood by the MPs and by the people who work in the field of health, but the texts and terms remained the same. Now you have spent four years as a ruling coalition trying to push medical facilities into public enterprises. Whatever we're talking about, the mess is getting bigger and bigger. I won't talk about what my colleagues have said so far. They were right. The answers and lines of Dr. Daritkova do not stand what they ask as opportunities that exist in the passing Law. But I'm asking you now, on top of everything we're doing right now, what we've been doing here lightly and it's just been mentioned, but it's been read as a list in the Commission, do you want me to tell you that the directors of the ten most strategic hospitals in Bulgaria will be elected by the Public Enterprises Agency! If this is not a scandal in Bulgaria, the leaders of these medical institutions should be elected by an institution that has nothing to do with health care, my God, I do not know what more we may look like than a Tower of Babel?! Mr. Chairman, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u19	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Are there any lines? Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u20	Dear Mr. Mihailov, I could also ask for a personal explanation because you are evaluating my speeches, which is not based on objective facts, but on subjective treatment. And objective facts suggest that the agency that will appoint the Board of Directors through a competition of these large public enterprises, large hospitals, including the National Complex of Rehabilitation Hospitals is Bull Bio. As such a national large company in the medical field, three representatives of the Ministry of Health will participate in it. That is, the Ministry of Health will lay down the rules for these large public enterprises under which the competitions will be held. Your speculation is again inappropriate, and I would like to assure you that in the Rules of Implementation of the Law, in the discussions that we will be having for the next four months, if you have appropriate proposals on how to really keep these hospitals in the possibility that the Minister of Health can fully define the policy regarding them, you can make them. At the same time, I assure you that, indeed, with three representatives on this council, which will appoint only eight large hospitals, the Board of Directors, the Ministry of Health will have the opportunity to exercise a dominant role. Honourable Members, do not seek any such definitions and explanations to justify your attitude towards the Bill, because all the managers of medical institutions and all active hospitals see that there is no constructiveness in this, but only the search for cheap political dividends.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. Are there any other lines? I can't see. Mr. Mihaylov, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear colleague Daritkova, last time I did not allow myself to explain myself to you when here, not to say the right word how you came to the stand to explain to me whether I am an opposition or not, remember this? And you evaluated my behavior, but I didn't comment on it. Now I want to tell you that what you do with the power of the majority, you will achieve it now. It is clear that you postpone the Bill by four months, it is even heard that more will be postponed because you are not aware of what will happen in the medical institutions. It is also clear that you speculate that the managers, the directors very well understood what it was about, and we are disturbing them. We are not disturbing you with this bill, as a result of which there has been an avalanche of calls. And now you have to explain how incorrect the terms in the Law are, how they are not understood by people and how the Law should be supported. Because, once again, this is our main thesis.. You are trying to push medical institutions, which is nowhere in Europe, in commercial companies, in the Law on Commercial and Public Enterprises and from then on trying to solve their problems. No problem has been solved in four years, debts remain the same, huge debts of medical institutions. So please don't talk about politicizing. Yes, there is a policy in this room and your health policy is completely, catastrophically unsuccessful! Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u23	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Are there any other statements? Here you are, Mrs. Naydenova. Are there others?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u24	Dear Mr. Chairman, Members of the National Assembly! I would like to draw your attention to the proposal in art. 6, para. 1 sentence two: the word "order" to be replaced by "orders." Only a week ago here at parliamentary control the Minister of Health on the same occasion replied that there would be a regulation that would unite all standards. I ask again: how much time do we need already..... because we are involved in all this work, to make medical standards for all kinds of specialties? So there's even some discrimination here because some have standards, some don't, but for the quality of medical care for those who don't, we can only guess. And one more thing, you will ask yourself: why did Naydenova take up these standards? Well, because, honourable Members, when something is gone, it cannot be controlled! Do you understand what a speech is about?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u25	Here's a line for you, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u26	Dear Mrs. Naydenova, medical standards are made by the expert advice on the relevant medical specialities with the opinion of the relevant medical companies. We cannot control them in any way from the position of parliamentarians, and at this stage only seven of these are prepared by the Ministry of Health. That is why there is no way in one regulation to record all medical standards, and the already finished ones must be published and therefore we replace them with plural, so that each individual standard can be issued as the relevant regulation can be published by starting to function. This is at the request of the Ministry of Health in view of the current situation
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. Are there any other lines? I can't see. Would you like to use the backrest right now, Mrs. Naydenova? No. Thank you. Are there any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. We are going to vote on the texts discussed so far. I put to the vote the name of the Law amending the Law on Medical Institutions. They voted 170 MPs: 99, against 22, abstention 49. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the proposed new § 1 by the MP Daniela Daritkova. They voted 167 MPs: for 98, against 44, abstention 25. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the version of § 1, which shall become § 2. They voted 165 MPs: 95, against 41, abstention 29. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u28	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2 which shall become § 3. "Concluding provisions" "Construction of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova." The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. According to § 3 there is a proposal of the MP Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u29	Please remain silent on the left side of the room!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u30	Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. 83, para 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 4. "4." In the Law on Public Enterprises (prom., SG No. 79, 2019, amend. No. 100 from 2019) the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 20 para. 3 is amended as follows: . (3) No managers and executive members of the Boards of Directors and of the Boards of Directors who work in the field of employment or employment, except as lecturers at a higher school. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22, para. The first sentence shall be added, with the exception of the Boards of Directors of State and Municipal Hospitals, to which the provision of art. 63, para. 2 sentence 2 of the Medical Services Act. 3. In the transitional and final provisions, in § 3, para. 4 shall be added at the end, with the exception of the compositions of the management and control bodies of the public undertakings. 63, para. 3 of the Law on Medical Institutions, which are subject to its requirements within a 16-month period. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4, which shall become § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. Statements under the old paragraphs from 2 to 4 new paragraphs from 3 to 5. You have the floor to speak. Mr. Yordanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u32	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I took the responsibility to make this statement to the Association of Municipal Hospitals on her behalf. The Association considers that with the proposed change in the Bill, i.e. executive directors and managers of municipal hospitals, who will not be able to practice as doctors in their hospitals, would severely disrupt the possibility of providing medical care. Because the managers of municipal hospitals in most cases are established medical specialists, some of them with specialties, which are rare and of which we do not have enough personnel in Bulgaria. We now assign them to be just governors, that is, they will not be able to practice the medical profession. I do not think that in Bulgaria there is a doctor who will give up being a doctor, practicing a medical profession, so that he can be a manager of a hospital, a health institution. That's why I'm proposing that this paragraph be dropped, and I'm still saying that this statement is what I'm doing, given to me by the Association of Municipal Hospitals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u33	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Are there lines? I can't see. Anyone else who wants to make a statement? Mrs. Daritkova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u34	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to reassure the Association of Municipal Hospitals that the four-month delay is precisely in the direction of making it possible for them to implement contracts with the Health Insurance Fund, to support the activities of the medical establishment and to be able to be part of the Treaty, and at the same time to meet the requirements of the Public Enterprises Act. Because these requirements, I repeat, were adopted a year ago, and they had to be brought into line now - the month of October - to the rules of this law. Therefore, some of the rules in the Health Insurance Act will have to be changed, and I expect you to support the proposal, too, with a four-month extension of the period within which medical institutions must bring their activities into line with the Public Enterprises Act. And that is why I think that I do not really understand your stubborn refusal to understand that we are helping medical institutions in this way and we want to take the time needed to ensure that the Public Enterprises Act within the framework of its functioning in the field of health is in line with the realities of the sector................................................................. In no way do we intend to prohibit the managers of municipal hospitals from performing medical activities. In any case, the governors of public health institutions are also not entitled to additional employment contracts except as teachers, because this has been accepted by the plenary, for which I thank you. At the same time, it is written in their management contracts that they can carry out medical activities and they work in the relevant medical establishments and perform the functions and activities for which they have the appropriate medical qualification. The same will apply to the managers of municipal medical institutions, only within the next four months we will clarify and convince the Monitoring Board, which sees how the Public Enterprises Act is implemented, that this is necessary for the sector.....................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. Are there any lines? I don't see anyone who wants to. Any other speeches? I don't see anyone either. We are going to vote on the texts discussed so far. I shall put to the vote the text on the Commission to § 2, which shall become § 3. Vote 148 MPs: 95, against 31, abstention 22. The motion is accepted. I shall put the name of the importing division to the vote. They voted 142 MPs: 94, against 30, abstention 18. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer by the version of the Commission for § 3 which shall become § 4. Vote 139 MPs: 92 against 35, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. I shall put the last § 4 to the text of the importer which shall become § 5. Vote 136 MPs: 96 against 28, abstention 12. The proposal has been adopted, with which we have concluded a second vote the bill amending the Law on Medical Institutions. Congratulations, Mrs. Daritkova! I felt sorry for you watching you run up and down like a squirrel. But congratulations! [[Radio.]] Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE CONNECTIONAL ORGANIZATIONS OF THE MEDICAL SISTERS, THE ACHES AND THE ASSOCIATED MEDICAL SPECIALISTS, THE EMPLOYERS AND THE EX-FARMACENTS. Importer (s) of the People's Representative Daniela Daritkova on 10 September 2020, adopted at the first vote on 18 September 2020. Mrs. Daritkova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u36	Report for the second vote. The Law on Word Organizations of Nurses, midwives and Associated Medical Professionals, Dentists and Assistant Pharmacists (prom., SG No. (growling) (grunting) (grunting) (grunting) (grunting) (grunting) (grunting) (grunting) (grunting) (grunting) (grunting) (grunting) (grunting) (grunting) (grunting) (grunting) (grunting) (grunting) (grunting) (grunting) (grunting) (grunting) (grunting) (grunting) (grunting) (grunting) (grunting) (grunting) (grunting) (grunting) (grunting) (grunting) The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. "Transitional and final provisions' The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4. Under § 5, there is a proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made in accordance with Article 5. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 5 be rejected. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6, which shall become § 5. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 6. Under § 8 there is a proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made in accordance with Article 8. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8, which shall become § 7: .................................................... The Law shall enter into force from 30 September 2020
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u37	I'm opening the debate on the entire bill. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the name of the Bill; § 1 by importer; § 2 by importer; § 3 by importer; the name of the Transitional and Final Provisions; § 4 by importer; the rejection of § 5; the text of § 6 which becomes § 5; the text of the importer of § 7 which becomes § 6 in the version of the Commission; the proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova; the text of § 8 in the version of the Commission to become § 7. You have the unique opportunity with one vote to accept the entire bill. Please vote regime. They voted 137 MPs: 98 against 17, abstention 22. The bill has been passed. Congratulations, Mrs. Daritkova. This time you saved yourself the running up and down, we accepted the Law at once. I interrupt this session until 11:00 when we continue with parliamentary control. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u38	Colleagues, we continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions for the period 18 September 2020: Asked by the MPs Georgi Mihaylov, Georgi Gokov, Georgi Yordanov, Desisslav Taskov, Ilian Timchev, Valentina Naydenova, Ivan Ibrishimov, Diana Slavova to Kostadin Angelov, Minister of Health, how are the activities and policies of the government in the field of health regarding the emergency epidemic situation related to COVID-19? The parliamentary meeting on 2 October 2020 should be answered. Written answers from: - Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov on a question from the MPs Krum Zarkov and Georgi Stoilov; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the MPs Errol Mehmed and Ihsan Halil; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the MPs Nikolai Ivanov and Evdokiya Asenova; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva on a question from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Nikolay Penev; - Minister of Interior Hristo Terziyski on a question from the MPs Stoyan Mirchev, Yavor Bojankov and Anton Kutev; - Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Stoilov; - Minister of Interior Hristo Terziyski on a question from the National Representative Yavor Bojankov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov on a question from the National Representative Krastina Taskova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u39	Declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u40	Declaration? You have the floor for a declaration on behalf of the Volya Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On behalf of the Volvo Parliamentary Group, I would like to congratulate and thank all my fellow Members who supported in the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports yesterday the two proposals of WOLI to ban the use of energy drinks and electronic cigarettes by children. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, yesterday you supported two extremely important measures for which we have long insisted and which can only benefit the health and life of the children of Bulgaria. We all know how dangerous energy drinks and e-cigarettes are to children, and their use is indisputable and scientifically proven to have a detrimental effect on their health. Colleagues, I sincerely hope that you will once again show concern for our children and participate actively in a constructive dialogue, as well as with proposals from all parliamentary groups between first and second readings, so that good intentions are not lost before the final vote on the bills. We must unite and show that the health and life of the young Bulgarians is a national priority. We of WOLF are consistent in our policies to protect children and their healthy development. As we have already announced, the ladies of the Volya are actively working on an important package of legislative initiatives, which we have called a path map of children's happiness. We put ideas not only for children, but for mothers and for families, because this is the foundation of a healthy and strong nation. Unfortunately, as shocking as it may sound, it turned out that in the Bulgarian Parliament there is a political party that placed its close party interests above the care for the health of the most valuable Bulgarian children. The only ones who did not vote on these important proposals yesterday were the MPs from BSP. Perhaps the BSP did not vote because the proposals are on the will. It's obviously more important to them than what the ideas are, but who's offering them, because they're obviously used to looking for enemies, not partners, and it's not the first time. How many valuable proposals of the will did not pass in this term just because we are the authors? However, the BSP group reaffirms the opinion of many Bulgarians that socialists cannot be an alternative, cannot unite the people, cannot be the faces of the change that the Bulgarians expect. Their attempt to ruin some good legislative ideas has actually reminded us again that the socialist governments during the transition are characterized by exactly this word............................................................................ It was during their time that in the mid-1990s, inflation was caused by 300%, which melted the savings of millions of Bulgarians, but it was helpfully reduced the debts of the credit millionaires, the average salary collapsed to five dollars and the pensions to three. The country was thrown into an unprecedented crisis and chaos. We know that these facts greatly disturb the BSP and make them ashamed when we remind them, but that is their management history. Surely no one in Bulgaria wants these days to be repeated. The more BSP rejects the proposals that are for the good of the people, the more we will remember these failures. The choice is in their hands and it's on their conscience. Thank you. [[Private applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Tsankova. We will continue by asking Mrs. Ekaterina Zaharieva, Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister for Foreign Affairs. She will respond to the asking of the MP Christian Vigenin about Bulgaria's position on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. You have the floor, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We started control with jokes, and now let's get to the serious stuff. Dear Minister, this year the United States launched a new peace plan for the Middle East, which did not receive the necessary support to become the basis for negotiations and a lasting settlement of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Later, however, the new government of Israel stated its intention to unilaterally implement part of the proposals in the plan, as part of the coalition agreement between the ruling parties is precisely annexed Palestinian territories on which Jewish settlements are built. Before I move on to specific questions, I would still like to clarify that the question is asked at the end of July, so in the meantime, some events have happened, but I suppose they are reflected in your response. But in particular, my question to you is: what is the Bulgarian position on the proposed peace plan of the United States for the Middle East and, respectively, on the intentions of the new Israeli Government for the annexation of part of the occupied Palestinian territories? Secondly, is there a change in Bulgaria's policy towards the region and if so, what are the reasons for this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u44	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. You have the floor, Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u45	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Vigenin, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you, Mr. Vigenin, for asking. This is indeed an important subject which, if we are talking about the peace plan, not less than a year before its announcement, is the subject of intense discussions on the international stage, including within the framework of the European Union's common foreign policy. On 28 January this year, the long-awaited peace plan of the United States of America for the Middle East was officially announced. It is about a large-scale initiative which aims to open a new page in the history of the region. It is true that it was adopted inconclusively on the international stage, and this is explained by the great polarisation of positions on this complex and decades-long issue. Although the Palestinian reaction was very negative, the governments of many countries, including many Arab countries, welcomed the initiative as an attempt to find a way out of the deadlock in which negotiations on the Middle East conflict have long been in place. In fact, neither is there a process nor there is peace in the region; this is the truth. Whatever controversial elements the American Peace Initiative contains, practically all objective assessments have united around the finding that the plan gives an impetus to revive the Middle East peace process and is a step towards removing it from its prolonged deadlock. The United States initiative provides a chance for the parties to sit back at the negotiating table. The fact that the plan provides for the possibility of creating a Palestinian state with a capital in the eastern part of Jerusalem can serve as the basis for a renewed dialogue. The specific parameters of the arrangements will be agreed between the parties in the course of direct negotiations, which unfortunately do not start anyway. The truth is that American diplomacy has played and will continue to play a key role in the Middle East peace process during its various stages. The fact that the new American peace initiative can be the basis for a renewed dialogue is evidenced by the events we have seen in recent weeks. As you have noted, your question is from the end of July and many things happened August and September. On 13 August this year, Israel and the United Arab Emirates reached an agreement on normalising their relations. In the framework of the arrangements, Israel has agreed to suspend its plans to pursue in Palestinian territory something that is a very important part of this agreement. Two weeks ago, the Kingdom of Bahrain announced that it would establish diplomatic relations with Israel, and on September 15th the two agreements were officially signed in Washington. We cannot fail to identify these developments as unprecedented, we cannot fail to recognise that it is a historic breakthrough that paves the way for a major change in the region's life. It is expected, on our information, that several other countries in the region will follow and conclude such agreements. What is most important at the moment, and it is the assessment of everyone, including the countries of the region, I have had the opportunity to speak to several ministers in the last two weeks, including the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the United Arab Emirates, of Saudi Arabia, these initiatives give both sides a chance to finally start talking. We all very much hope that this chance will not be missed again. Our country's principled position on the ways to resolve the Israeli-Palestinian conflict remains unchanged. We have no change in our position, and it is that the only way to find a fair and lasting solution to the conflict is through negotiations between Israelis and Palestinians to create an independent and democratic Palestinian state that exists in conditions of peace, security and mutual recognition for the state of Israel. There is no doubt that, as part of the Middle East quartet, the European Union should continue to contribute constructively to overcoming obstacles in the way of achieving a comprehensive peaceful settlement of the conflict. Despite the nuances in the positions of the state member states, something that is not a secret, the European Union retains its attachment to internationally recognised parameters for regulating the conflict. In this context, we strongly and consistently call on all stakeholders to refrain from unilateral action which could prevent efforts to resume the Middle East peace process and create a risk of further destabilising the region. You know that Bulgaria develops traditionally good relations and partnership with both Israel and the Palestinians. Our ties to the Arab world have a long history, although due to historical circumstances they have not been so intense. In recent years, we have been able to uncover three missions in the region - one Consulate General and two embassies. We do have a dynamic dialogue, with much of this dialogue being how we can help solve this long-standing issue. Within the European Union, it is very important that finally Israel's Foreign Minister Gabi Eshkenazi was at lunch this year at the informal council in Berlin. I can assure you that we have heard very strong messages from the Israeli Foreign Minister. I very much hope that the delay and cancellation of plans for unilateral annexation in the territory, and the fact that there is a new political reality in Israel, will move Palestinians not to lose and not to miss this chance. Of course, you have to wait and see what happens in the elections there. A very important message to the Palestinians is to have a unified position, i.e. to have Palestinian unity, so that they can be strong when they sit down at the negotiations. I will conclude that there is no change in our position, there is movement in the region, in the process and we hope it will lead to the positive development of this conflict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u46	Thank you. Declaring questions, dear Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u47	Thank you, dear Minister for the information. I am aware that within the framework of parliamentary control, it is impossible to say who knows how much on the subject and I would call on this subject to be discussed in the Committee on Foreign Policy. With regard to supplementary questions. I am glad that there is no official change in the Bulgarian position, but, on the other hand, the actions of Bulgarian diplomacy indicate at least, if not a substantial change, at least a change in nuances regarding our positions on these issues. What do I mean? In June, in the Human Rights Council, in voting on the traditional resolution on violations of international law in the occupied Palestinian territories, Bulgaria voted against this resolution for the first time. If you could clarify: based on what instructions this has been done, as Bulgaria has always abstained on this type of resolution in the Human Rights Council, an important position which Bulgaria was able to win a long time ago, to participate in, to be a member of this Council, provided that countries such as Denmark, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Slovakia, Spain, who are also members of this Council, voted again on the abstention? Secondly, on my information, and you will say that in the discussion of the Conference of Ministers of Foreign Affairs of the Middle East, Bulgaria was one of the parties who objected to having an official position of the European Union on the intentions announced in the declaration by the new Israeli Government and to unilaterally implement part of this plan. As you have noted, in the meantime, it has been a commitment not to do so, but at that point the situation assumed and it was logical for the European Union to express itself more firmly on this subject. Since no consensus has been reached, although the vast majority of the European Union member states have supported the idea of such an official position, such a position could not be accepted and made, and there was therefore a modest statement by the High Representative for Foreign Affairs Jose Borrell. I would like to emphasise that, despite the lack of formal change in position, such actions indicate such a change. That's one question...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u48	Dear Mr. Vigenin, please finish.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u49	I'm done, Mr. Chairman. To ask: how Bulgaria participates more actively in the actions of the European Union in the region, are there any new initiatives in which we could participate more actively, because traditionally, as you have noted, Bulgaria has a good relationship with both one and the other, has played a constructive role and could be a useful participant in these processes, all the more so that peace in the region is of direct interest to Bulgaria as well? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u50	Thank you. You have the floor to answer, Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u51	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Vigenin, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I need to see what was the reason Bulgaria voted against. I can't remember, but I can answer your second question as I attended the discussion in this council. You're a little misinformed. Not only Bulgaria, but several Member States of the European Union, we were against and threatening sanctions, because that was actually the dispute in the Council and not whether we should have a declaration. On the contrary, there were several European Union declarations, and not only from the High Representative, in which we called and condemned unilateral actions, but there were several nuances. The new government has not yet been formed for the first time, that is, there is no way to threaten with sanctions the action for which it had all the data that the political parties in Israel have differences and will not happen. We thought this would now be constructive. In fact, this was the position of at least five or six Member States of the European Union. With regard to unilateral annexation. Bulgaria's position has always been clear and therefore I tell you that there is no change. There were differences in terms of whether the state of Israel should be threatened with sanctions. To this day, I continue to believe that this was the correct reaction of Bulgaria, showed itself with the actions after that, that is to say, the opportunity was given for the Israeli government to form, to decide whether this reaction would be right, because it would not have met de facto support from anyone with this unilateral annexation. History has shown that the countries of the European Union, including Bulgaria, who wanted a more balanced position, were right because then really positive things happened in the region. As regards the European Union and the initiatives. I believe that the European Union must play a much more active role in the Middle East peace process. It is not a secret, unfortunately, that somehow the European Union is not so strongly recognized as a partner but is recognised by individual Member States. For a reason Bulgaria has been one of the countries calling for the convening of the Association Council with the state of Israel, which has not happened for at least five or six years. We are one of the most active countries and we believe that we must have a very intense dialogue with both Palestine and Israel. In order for the European Union to be seen and recognised as an honest mediator, it must not take either direction, but must follow the common policy that the states have expressed in the declaration concerning this conflict. And otherwise there are many declarations and many papers, and now one is preparing, in which Bulgaria is always actively involved. In my opinion, things are more important in practice and the convening of the Association Council is one of them. Regular contacts, the participation of the Union and the Commission of the High Representative as such shall be other specific initiatives and actions. I hope this will finally happen, because the voice for the convening of this Council is no longer only from 3 Member States, but from at least half. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u52	Thank you, dear Mrs. Zaharieva. Mr. Vigenin, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs, thank you for the information you have provided us. Of course, we will closely monitor the events because they are quite dynamic and it is really important for us that Bulgaria has a consistent and together with this constructive position. It is good to monitor the actions of our representatives in the different. Besides the foreign minister, to have synergies with the other formats in which Bulgaria participates and to have clear instructions in this regard. I use this case to say that I believe that the Bulgarian Parliament, but this also happens in partnership with the Minister of Foreign Affairs, should be more involved with the topics of foreign policy and especially with such sensitive issues. Unfortunately, I cannot fail to confirm the finding of the President of the Foreign Policy Committee of the Bulgarian Parliament.................. that almost two years after the Presidency the Bulgarian Parliament has not dealt with any major issues related to foreign policy and our participation in the European Union. I believe that this is the responsibility of both parliament and the government, which is broadcast by the majority here. I would suggest: if such initiatives cannot start from parliament, I think it would be nice on your initiative and on topics such as the Middle East and some others, which are key to Bulgaria's security and which are of particular interest, on your initiative to come and inform the Committee on Foreign Policy. Otherwise we will have to talk in the form of questions or questions, but the time is extremely short, and on some of these topics broad publicity is not necessary, as you cannot provide us with enough sensitive information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u54	Thank you. We continue with a question to Minister Zaharieva of the National Representative Anton Kutev, who is about the functions of the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs as coordinator of the fight against anti-Semitism and hate speech. You have the floor, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u55	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, colleagues! My question was challenged by a strange genre who introduced the Ministry of Foreign Affairs just over two weeks ago, and I think he managed to get into institutional history with a press conference on false news, which in itself is interesting how it happened. Let me remind you that BNT came out with a message that protesters were going to make People's Court, and maybe two hours later, he rejected it and said it was false news. To surprise everyone about an hour later in the face of your deputy, Georg Georgiev, the Ministry came out with a press conference, which condemned the fake news already made. If we leave the comic in the fact that an institution that is still burdened with diplomacy makes a definitely strange step to comment on false news in this official way, frankly, I would have asked myself the question: if you had come across not this news, but an international one, where you could cause a scandal much more serious than this one, what do we do? So I don't underestimate it at all, and I don't think it's even comical, but it's more like a very serious problem in the Ministry's communication. But to me, more importantly, the Deputy Minister in question, at the moment that he is holding this press conference on the false news of BNT, already denied by the television itself, is presented as coordinator of the fight against anti-Semitism and hate language. For me, this position remains insufficiently clarified because I tried on the Ministry's website to see exactly what this means and what its responsibilities in this regard are. I have two questions for you: what are the duties and functions of the Deputy Minister as coordinator of the fight against anti-Semitism and hate speech; what are the policies of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs regarding the fight against hate speech within your entrusted Ministry?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u56	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. You have the floor, Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u57	Dear Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Kutev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In recent years we have seen rising waves of anti-Semitism and hate speech in Europe and beyond, unfortunately very strongly during the period of COVID-19. Extremely strong! In just the last few months, we have sent and identified more than 20 or 30 signals with specific signals of the services on this issue from Bulgaria, i.e. Bulgaria is not an exception, unfortunately. It appears regularly on social networks, comments under various articles in online space. We also witness some acts of vandalism against religious, cultural and other objects that go beyond the limitations of anti-Semitism. Since the beginning of this government, in October 2017, the Council of Ministers first appointed a national coordinator for the fight against anti-Semitism with a decision. As you said, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Georg Georgiev was appointed to perform these functions. His responsibilities as a national coordinator under the Council of Ministers' decision cover: making connections and interaction with international organizations working on these issues, with the national coordinators of the countries with which Bulgaria partnered; maintaining regular institutional contacts and consultations with the Jewish community; coordinating national and international projects; interaction with the national media to raise awareness and sensitivity of the society on these issues. Another part of the responsibility of the Anti-Semitism Coordinator includes interaction with the competent ministries, state agencies, NGOs. It was for coordination of policies and action for prevention and countering anti-Semitism that a contact group was established, whose chair is the national coordinator, and members are representatives of the Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Education and Science, Ministry of Interior, representatives of the prosecution, Sofia Municipality, the organization of Jews in Bulgaria and other organizations. Special focus of the contact group is preparation of proposals for amendments to the Bulgarian legislation concerning hate crimes. A thorough analysis of the compliance of the provisions of the Penal Code relating to hate crimes and discrimination with international standards was carried out. Based on this analysis, concrete texts were proposed to increase penalties for hate crimes or those with anti-Semitic and xenophobic urges from three to five years. The change is to be examined in the National Assembly committees. The development of a national anti-Semitism plan is also planned. This will be done through a joint project between Bulgaria and Norway in support of our country's international commitments to fight anti-Semitism and preserve the Jewish heritage. I would draw attention to the fact that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and, in particular, the national coordinator worked on policies aimed precisely at anti-Semitism, xenophobia, hatred and intolerance. In the last three years alone, many campaigns have been held, including "Sofia" said "Negotiation of Hate", "Together for Bulgaria", "Together for Europe" and "Together against hate speech." The campaigns we implemented and participated in sent strong messages against the speech of hatred and anti-Semitism and in a clear way showed the intolerance of the Bulgarian society to such phenomena. Let me just point out that for the first time in February this year "Lukovmarsh" did not take place in its 17-year history "something which, as a matter of fact, was shameful for Bulgaria. I personally was ashamed that such a procession was held in Bulgaria, right in Bulgaria. The need for more systematic actions of the Bulgarian institutions and NGOs was made public. The principle position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is always to react to the defamation of historical monuments, regardless of the motives of the perpetrators. We react to any monument that is corrupted, not only with anti-Semitic focus. Coordination between institutions is very important. On the one hand, it is very important to cooperate with the departments of the Ministry of Interior for the prevention of xenophobia, as well as with municipalities. On the other hand, as I said, are the local authorities who must make efforts to protect and preserve these monuments. I believe that indeed a lot of work has been done during this period. This is also expressed in the assessment that Bulgaria was accepted in the International Anti-Semitism Alliance, that many times a number of Jewish organizations reacted and thanked not only the Ministry of Foreign Affairs but also the national coordinator. However, I am convinced that we are at the beginning of this road. Again, unfortunately, the anti-Semitic theme has grown very strongly in recent months. I don't remember in any other period that there were so many direct publications mainly on social networks. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u58	Thank you, dear Mrs. Zaharieva. Line, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u59	Dear Minister! I really think that fighting both anti-Semitism and hate speech is extremely important right now. That's why I took the liberty of asking that question. First of all, from what I was able to find on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs website, I couldn't figure out what the ratio was. In everything you have said, I see much more influence of anti-Semitism, and I think that at the moment the hate speech has much more serious dimensions in Bulgaria. I do not underestimate the efforts to combat anti-Semitism in any way, but I believe that we should aim in another way and expand the volume of action in terms of hate speech, because it is currently occurring in extremely problematic spheres. To be honest, unfortunately, it is not excluded at all, including from speaking inside Parliament, from representatives, and from the ruling majority. So it's very important to me what the volume is that it involves. What you have told me, I personally would extend it not only to anti-Semitism, which is very important, but to a much greater extent to other manifestations of hate speech, which are part of government including. I couldn't fully understand what the Deputy Minister's functions were. However, do not take it as a nagging, but I will return to the press conference he gave then. At the press conference that the man gave, there was so I asked him what his functions were, how he kept the speech from hatred, provided that I would quote only one sentence: "Democracy, peace, stability do not suggest that we should talk about a bloody quarrel, about a gallows and about killings. " - Even in the false news of BNT, it was not about a bloody quarrel, about a gallows and about killings. The only one who mentioned in this entire trial a bloody quarrel, a gallows and murder was your deputy minister in his response to the events. It is amazing to me how he struggles with hate speech and hatred in society through this rhetoric, yet I say, which was introduced by him and by no one else, neither by protesters, nor by BNT, which makes the false news, but by the Deputy Minister who does it in his response, while in charge of fighting hate language. So I asked you what his specific functions are, because in my opinion, this person cannot perform them after he can make such mistakes. Fighting hate language is a way of thinking. He should be living somewhere very deep inside of us. Unfortunately, and this small case, which, however, I'm telling you, could be much scarier if it wasn't for this topic, shows that the people who work and to whom you entrusted these things have no sense, no idea how to do this job. I think you should change the man.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u60	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. A hole, Mrs. Zaharieva? You don't want to. Thank you for your participation in control today. We continue with questions to Mrs. Desislava Taneva, Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests. It will respond to a question by the National Representative Christian Vigenin about the consequences of the measures taken by the government to deal with the alleged presence of small ruminants plague in Bulgaria. You have the floor, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, it has been two years since the government, respectively, the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency has committed mass slaughter of sheep and goats in Strandzha because of the alleged penetration of the disease of small ruminants in Bulgaria. Meanwhile, part of the actions of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency were identified as illegal by the Supreme Administrative Court. The strain of the virus was not isolated, it was not categorically proven that a single animal died from the plague on small ruminants. However, Bulgaria remains in the Register of the International Organisation for Animal Health as a country where there is an outbreak of small ruminants two years later. The case of suspected infection in Bulgaria should already be carefully analysed, relevant conclusions should be drawn, appropriate measures should be taken to prevent such action from taking place by the authorities in the future, as well as measures to prevent the causes which led to the prerequisites for such action. In addition, the necessary action should be taken to close this case at international level in order to restore Bulgaria's status as a country free of plague on small ruminants. In this regard, my questions to you are: has an analysis of the government's actions and, respectively, the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency and its related structures been carried out in relation to the eradication of suspected outbreaks of small ruminants in Bulgaria in the period 2018 - 2019? If yes, what are the main conclusions and recommendations? If not, is a full report planned to be prepared on the case to mark all errors in the assessment of the situation and measures to address the crisis? Has Bulgaria's status as a country free of plague on small ruminants been restored, and if not what action have been taken in this direction? Thirdly, have new measures been introduced following the case of small ruminants to reduce the risk of imports of disease into the most risky border regions, one of which is the municipality of Bolyarovo? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u62	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. You have the floor to answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u63	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Vigenin, dear Members of Parliament! Allow me to disagree with the preamble to your question, because there is no act to prove your findings of a lack of such a disease, of unlawful actions for everything you set out at the outset. In this regard, I will give some factology. During the period June, July 2018 a total of 7 outbreaks of small ruminants have been confirmed in the surveillance programme for control of cross-border diseases in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, 6 outbreaks in the municipality of Bolyarovo, Yambol and one outbreak in the village of Kosti, Tsarevo municipality, Bourgas district. The outbreaks are confirmed on the basis of a proven laboratory presence of the virus, subject to the reference methods specified in the Diagnostic Manual of the World Organisation for Animal Health by two independent laboratories: the European Union Reference Laboratory in Montpellier, France and the National Reference Laboratory for Exotic Animal Diseases at the National Diagnostic Research Veterinary Institute in Bulgaria. Final I.V. Report. No 7639 of 16 May 2019 by the European Union Reference Laboratory for Small Cattle Plague categorically confirms the occurrence of the disease in Bulgaria in 2018, which imposed the application of measures to eradicate it in accordance with the requirements of European Union legislation and standards of the World Organisation for Animal Health. As a probable cause for the occurrence of the disease, circulation of a weak strain of pest in small ruminants is indicated, which may have been introduced into the country by illegal movement of small ruminants from the Republic of Turkey where the disease is enzootic. This is the first penetration of the disease in Bulgaria and in the territory of the European Union. The veterinary authorities in the country have implemented all the mandatory measures required by international and national legislation in order to protect small ruminants in the region and guarantee free trade, namely: the Animal Health Act; Council Directive 92/119/EEC, Chapter 14, p. 7 of the Terrestrial Animal Health Code of the World Organisation for Animal Health (OIE) ; Commission Implementing Decision EU/2018/954 laying down certain protective measures to prevent the spread of small ruminants disease in the Republic of Bulgaria. The measures imposed by BABBH, the strategy and the results of supervision are communicated regularly with the European Commission and the Member States of the European Union, within the framework of the monthly meetings of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed to the European Commission and by official letters. A mission of the European Union veterinary emergency team (EUVET) regarding the disease in Bulgaria was carried out between 18 July and 20 July 2018. The conclusions of the mission are for extremely early detection of the disease and adequately taken measures by the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, which may however be compromised by the failure of the official veterinary authorities in the establishments. As a result of the development of the situation in 2018 within the European Commission, three decisions (EU) 2018/911, (EU) 2018/954 and (EU) 2018/1499 were voted on in order to establish certain protective measures in order to prevent the spread of the disease in Bulgaria. The restricted area has been extended three times by those decisions. First, in Yambol region, it subsequently covers only the affected border municipalities, lastly affecting the entire districts Yambol, Burgas and Haskovo. The areas covered by the decisions are prohibited from trading in live, susceptible animals and products thereof. The last outbreak found in an establishment with No 8720055, in the town of Bolyarovo is still not closed due to obstruction of the measures imposed. At present, the farm has the status of an establishment where the outbreak of small ruminants has been confirmed, which does not allow Bulgaria to fulfil the conditions laid down in the Terrestrial Animal Code of (OIE), and therefore to submit an official request for the restoration of its status as a country free of small ruminants plague, namely the presence of negative samples for the disease 24 months after the last outbreak has been eradicated. By Decision No 7606/17 June 2020, under Administrative Case No 13004/19, the Supreme Administrative Court was given the annulment only to the order issued No JA-3-702/10 October 2018 to the Director of the ODBH city of Yambol for deletion from the register of establishment No 87200355 located in the city of Bolyarovo, Yambol. The judicial act does not in any way contest the establishment of the entry of the disease into Bulgaria, namely order No RD 11-1349/18 July 2018 of the Executive Director of BABBH, which declared a secondary outbreak of small ruminants plague as well as measures taken under the Act. According to the court, the disease undoubtedly poses an immediate danger to other animals due to its highly contagious nature. On 18 June 2020, the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency notified the European Commission of the court's decision and the current situation in the country with regard to the pest of small ruminants, and the European Commission's position on the case is still expected. It remains unchanged at present and Bulgaria is not yet a country free of this disease and is listed in all relevant registers of the Commission and of the (OIE) with this status. At present there are bans and restrictions on imports of lambs from Bulgaria by the Republic of Northern Macedonia, the Republic of Turkey, the Republic of Kazakhstan, Ukraine and the Russian Federation. In the border regions of the country is implemented a precautionary programme against certain cross-border animal diseases in Bulgaria in 2019. The aim of this programme is to strengthen the supervisory activities and opportunities for the fastest response of veterinary services in Bulgaria, taking into account the country's strategic geographical location as an external border of the European Union. The programme includes the following diseases: lumpy skin disease, foot-and-mouth disease, small ruminants plague and sheep and goat pox. Pursuant to the Programme vaccination against lumpy skin disease shall be carried out. Up to now, 298 560 cattle have been vaccinated, which is 40% of the cattle intended for vaccination, clinical examinations for foot-and-mouth disease in cattle, clinical examinations for minor ruminants for the detection of ovine and caprine foot-and-mouth disease, small ruminants plague and serological virological testing samples. Our country also implements a THRACE programme, including 21 settlements in the border municipalities of Burgas, Yambol and Haskovo.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u64	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Vigenin, you have the floor for questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u65	Thank you, dear Lord President. Dear Minister, thank you for your information. Unfortunately, you are stubbornly on the path of Minister Porozhanov. Your answers must be prepared by the same experts who must justify, of course, their actions. However, for the first time in response to a minister, since I have collected all the questions I have asked about this topic since 2018, I have heard of a weak strain of the virus. From all the literature I've read in this period, I've never met the possibility of a weak strain of small ruminants plague anywhere. Conversely, all known strains of the virus are quite deadly, reaching 90% of the infected animals and the disease is therefore highly contagious. Where did these guesses come from for a weak strain, given that such a strain was not isolated? In fact, a virus is obviously not found, because if a virus was found, it would be able to isolate a strain of this virus, says the audience, which is not so deep in the subject. To say that several are possible strains and by what strain is it could easily be specified, to understand respectively where the infection might have penetrated. In fact, what was found not only in the municipality of Bolyarovo, but also in dozens of herds during the months of September, October, November and December in the districts of Haskovo, Burgas and Yambol, the suspicion is rather that it is about the use of a vaccine which obviously did not meet the requirements and for this reason, after these facts became clear, in the months of September, October, no more such animal slaughter orders were issued. But my specific questions to you: however, since this is the procedure, first, has the registration of Ana Petrova's flock been restored, as decided by the Supreme Administrative Court? If not when you intend to do so, given that you have stated that the Ministry will comply with the Court's judgment and this is perfectly logical. In relation to what is more important, the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court or the opinion of some officials in the European Commission so distant. By the way, since you also mentioned the mission that came from the European Commission to experts, this mission continues to be repeated, I would like to say that he refused all meetings, even though I am a member of Yambol and I was chairman of the Committee on European Affairs, they refused to meet with me, although Minister Porozhanov made such an attempt. I say this by reaching out to people clearly have their tasks, goals, and they do not care about other issues.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u66	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u67	And my second theme is: do you not intend to draw up a comprehensive report on the actions and consequences of what happened then, or all that is being done at the moment is to justify those actions, to cover up the tracks and the decision to seek out again a perfectly healthy herd two years later.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u68	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u69	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Vigenin, honourable Members of Parliament! Everything I have presented as factology is a result of all the documentation that is found in the case of the Food Agency, of laboratory tests received, reports from various bodies, so I have not added any nuance to what I have presented, and I have only cited documents. On your second question, regarding the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court, I said what the decision was, I quoted it and it was implemented. The decision is to revoke the order of the Executive Director for the deletion of the site and the establishment is currently being conducted This decision has been implemented in the system of BABBH "the object concerned." The solution says this: cancels the deletion of the establishment and it is currently with an active status. However, this decision does not affect, as I have repeatedly explained, in any way a change of the status of Bulgaria as being free from the plague of petty ruminants, as I informed you in my initial response. We have informed the Commission of this decision, but its consequences are to become an active object. In practice, this decision does not change the factology of everything that has happened and which has been obtained, such as research in both laboratories. So this decision has been implemented. Believe me, we are also looking for an option to get out of this status because we have letters from organizations, from traders who have stopped shipments for the export of lambs precisely because of this status, but we cannot change it. There is no opinion, as I informed you, following developments in the Court of Justice and the Commission, regarding this change With regard to possible meetings, so who can meet with whom, I can answer only for myself, in this capacity of my present mandate. I would never refuse a meeting with you, but what could have been done has been done, and that is the status at the time of the case. As you can see, no one has come to any measures that are not being perceived at the moment.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u70	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taneva. Mr. Vigenin, you have a say in how you respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Taneva, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I cannot say that I am satisfied with the answer because, as I said at the beginning, it repeats the same things that are inconsistent with reality. I cannot imagine that you continue to form your actions and policies based on some paper conclusions and reports from two years ago. I cannot imagine that the European Commission or the World Organisation for Animal Health will not be able to understand, given that two years after an outbreak has been declared, and if that is the only reason we are on the list of non-plague countries in small ruminants, it will continue to insist that the only way to resolve the problem is by eliminating Annie Petrova's flock, which is absolutely healthy two years later. Fortunately, it has already been restored to registration, although it has been made and a pathetic attempt is still being made by the regional directorate to ask for the annulment of this decision with arguments that I do not know who invented them, but evidence that there is a plague on this site is some sample from the website of countries that have banned imports, because we have informed them, respectively, the BABC and the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, of the presence of plague on small ruminants. I really urge you to come out of this bureaucratic approach, to step on reality and to make an effort for the European Commission and the World Organisation for Animal Health, to accept the fact that the herd, and if there has been a problem, is already healthy. You will find a way to prove it and to solve this issue, and not to continue the same for two years now two ministers talking to me about this does not seem serious to me. I guess another minister will have to come, another government, and then we'll figure it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u72	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. The next question to Minister Taneva is from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova on the sixth amendment of the Rural Development Programme 2014 - 2020. You have the floor, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u73	Dear Mr President, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen ministers! My question relates to the sixth amendment of the Rural Development Programme. I just want to put in a few explanatory ones relating to the program itself. The programme itself provides for a measure that improves risk management in farms with a budget of 20 million. EUR, taking into account the risk management of creating prerequisites for stabilizing incomes, for the sustainability of agricultural holdings at major risks such as drought, floods, hails, frostbite. And in all other cases, we have diseases, total destruction of the areas, and total destruction of the animals, compensation is carried out by the state budget. During the entire period of operation of the Programme, at least three times the indicative timetables announced the need to launch this measure in 2018, 2019, at the beginning of February 2020, it was promised that the measure would start. Perhaps I wouldn't have asked this question if the year was normal in terms of climate factors in Bulgaria and the risks that we are really facing in 2020. To my great amazement with the sixth amendment of the Rural Development Programme, which is the largest in terms of transferring financial resources, it is decided that these 20 million are not necessary, that is to say, there are no risks that affect agricultural holdings and are transferred to the Fund. From this point of view, the decision that has been taken and the consequences of it, my question is related to this: on the basis of what analyses and assessments has been decided to accumulate funds in the Fund of Funds, and do you believe that at present precisely 2020 as an example of extremely severe in the sector, the low interest credits that will possibly be provided for the next two years will solve the problems, especially in the areas that are most affected by land? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. You have the floor for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u75	Mr. Chairman, MPs! Dear Professor Bachvarova, in 2018, an ex ante evaluation of the financial instruments under the Rural Development Programme was carried out in 2018, which identifies unoptimal investment situations giving rise to their implementation, aimed at increasing the level of loans offered and promoting competitiveness in the sector. The preliminary assessment confirms the existence of a market failure and an optimal investment situation in rural areas which leads to a market shortage. The analysis carried out in the framework of the preliminary assessment shows that, in view of the sector's specific needs to support access to external financing, the opportunities of financial institutions and the financial instruments implemented so far, both in Bulgaria and in other Member States, the most appropriate financial product for implementation would be the risk sharing loan, with two options: a loan for co-financing of the beneficiary of a project financing with grants from the Agricultural and Non-Agricultural Investments Programme in Rural Areas, including investments and funding under the Leader Programme, a private loan granted to applicants eligible under the sub-measures 4.1, 4.2 and 6.4 under the Programme, but not necessarily being beneficiaries under the RDP. The Strategy to the RDP 2014 " 2020" states that "Season of pests and environmental incidents," which is planned to support financial contributions to funds for adverse climatic events, animal and plant diseases, pest invasions and environmental incidents, will be implemented after carrying out an analysis of the benefits and costs and applicability. As of mid-2019, the measure was not signed in the Programme, with even the indicative budget of 36.7 million. EUR is temporarily attached to the budget of other measures of the Programme. In relation to the advanced phase in which the Programme is implemented, the Managing Authority, without giving up entirely the possibility of launching such a fund in the future, has examined the decision that it is more appropriate at present to redirect funds to start quickly the Credit Fund and has proposed to redirect the amount to other measures, including the capitalisation of a new Financial Instrument, designed to address some of the specific challenges in the use of financial instruments in the It is precisely because of the possibility of real lending with lower interest rates that the credit plan will provide low interest rate loans in two directions: those that will be granted to eligible final recipients, such as co-financing to grants up to 50% of the funds from the Rural Programme, and private loans up to 70% of the funds from the Rural Development Programme. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. For the unstarted Measure 17, the public funds are provided precisely by the intended indicative resource for the unstarted Measure 17. In this regard, the Managing Authority of the Programme does rely on the loans provided in this way to ensure the necessary funding for a wide range of farmers and processors, or at least to improve it. The financial instrument has been introduced into the Programme with the sixth amendment and has been adopted by the European Commission services on 27 April 2020 by Decision 2796, which is the most comprehensive so far, including as the redistribution of funds, and is widely discussed by all interested parties prior to its submission for consideration and during the negotiation process. Following the approval of the sixth emergency amendment, an administrative procedure for signing and coordinating the financial agreement between the Fund and the Ministry was initiated. As of the beginning of September, the loan fund under the Rural Programme is a fact. Currently, there is a procedure for selecting banks and intermediaries, after which the selected ones will be able to issue loans. With regard to your second question, which is beyond this topic, do you think that low-interest loans will solve some of the problems in the areas concerned, no measure in general can solve any problem. This is a measure that would, of course, help in this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u76	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taneva. The line, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u77	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I begin by not agreeing with your thesis that no measure can solve the risks in agriculture. In general, there are risks because it's an outdoor factory. But all the other countries of the European Union are able and taking the necessary steps to protect at least the income of farmers who are affected in one form or another. I assume you have information that more than 20 countries in the European Union are working precisely in this area. They protect income precisely under adverse weather conditions. You know that this year around 3 million. Dekar autumns are affected by land in the eastern regions of the country. There is absolutely no possibility for them to be stabilized as farms at this stage and to continue to work accordingly. If this measure were adopted in the way it is described in the Programme, you would have the opportunity to react and create precisely such prerequisites, so that we are not currently looking for opportunities other than the state budget, but for the Rural Development Programme. You said that this measure would almost solve some of the agricultural issues. This measure will only address the issues of large farms because a ceiling of 1 million has been set. Euros. When you see that 20 million. EUR is the transferred funds, this means that around 20 farms, and these are the largest, will be able to benefit from the measure. And last but not least, in the first programming period we transferred 100 million. Euros in the Guarantee Fund that we didn't master them. We are now transferring 20 million to the Fund Fund through banks. What's the effect? Risk we do not want to manage, even though we understand that the country is risky in every respect, not only in terms of climate, but also in terms of disease. And I hope that when the Programme is being analysed, and 2018, when the Programme is being reviewed, those who are doing so will live in Bulgaria and analyze what has happened over the years so that they can at any given time have options and opportunities to support the incomes of the affected farms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u78	Thank you. You have the floor for the doppelganger, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u79	Dear Mr. Chairman! Professor Bachvarova, it is good to have a consistent relationship with the possibility of launching the Risk Management measure, because in order to start and apply it, there must be an eligible entity for this. You have always expressed a position on not accepting our ideas for creating a mutual fund where there is financial solidarity between farmers and a country. Without this, there is no way to start the measure at all.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u80	Thank you, dear Minister. This ended the questions to Minister Taneva. Thank you for participating in Parliamentary control today. We continue with a question to Mr. Krasimir Valchev, Minister of Education and Science. He will answer a question from the MP Smilyana Nieva about the problems of switching to e-learning. You have the floor, Ms. Niva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u81	Dear Minister, according to data from the Ministry of Education and Science from the beginning of e-learning during the past school year, children who do not have access to electronic means are about 35,000. Also, about 35,000 people don't have access to the Internet. So that's about 10% of the students in our country. The opening of the new school year has already registered the first cases of students and teachers infected with COVID-19. In view of the pandemic, many families remained unemployed and were unable to provide normal distance training for their children. I give the following example: on 19 September this year a positive sample of the COVID-19 was found of a student from the VI grade in the Primary School of Lyuben Karavelov in Haskovo. And the 22 students in this class have been quarantined. RZI Haskovo has given a prescription for disinfecting the entire building, which means that perhaps other students and classes will be placed in such quarantine mode. My questions are as follows: is the system ready to switch to distance learning if necessary, how many students have received electronic means and how many are left without access to training due to lack of them, or access to the Internet? What about students from Haskovo region, and how will the Ministry solve these problems?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u82	Thank you. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u83	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Nieva, the COVID-19 pandemic put the preschool and school education system in Bulgaria in force majeure circumstances where for a very short period of time all participants in the educational process needed to switch to a typical way of learning. The fact is that educational systems in all countries are built to ensure equal access to the physical classroom, equal access to the teacher, but not equal access to training in an electronic environment. More or less, the COVID-19 situation has faced all education systems with a serious challenge to ensure this equal access. By universal recognition it is a fact that Bulgaria is one of the countries that very quickly, in a very short period and relatively successfully started training in an electronic environment, including comparing it only among developed countries. And today we have multiple children, hundreds of millions worldwide, who are not effectively involved in e-learning. The data you released is close to what we collected. It's really our data. At the very first weeks of training in an electronic environment, nearly 5% of students declared that they were not trained because of lack of devices and nearly 5% because of lack of Internet connectivity, and with regard to this Internet connectivity, access can be easier to access, as it is a relatively lower cost. The Regulation on the financing of institutions was amended, the possibility was given to schools to finance internet costs for students, and contracts were also concluded with mobile operators for preferential offers for schools to help parents deliver the Internet at preferential prices. Of course, we have children in few settlements that do not have access to good Internet, but basically at least one of the operators in most cases has such an opportunity also through USB clubs, Internet, Wi-Fi devices, routers and so on access for most children was provided. There were kids who couldn't pay their bills, and the schools helped accordingly. In general, it is not about a large cost. We, together with two of the three mobile operators, although we invited the three, two responded to the invitation, built in 11 zones, in the so-called separate neighborhoods, Wi-Fi zones in the places with the highest concentration of unoccupied students. So with regard to access to the Internet, it is easier to overcome this circumstance, it is more difficult when it comes to devices. We purchased nearly 900 devices, most of them, by the way, were provided to the teachers, less to the students. We also have a small percentage of teachers who have a shortage of devices. Generally, schools have helped them to overcome this shortage is easier to overcome. With regard to the students, we have been donated further, we have helped to donate perhaps over 1000 devices, but decentralized, that is, without our logistical assistance, much more devices have been donated. Of course that's not enough. What are we predicting? We foresee the purchase of a minimum of 80 000 devices for teachers and a minimum of 60 000 for students, with the funds from the instrument of the European Union REACT-EU, but it is related to both budget procedures, so most of all the inability to buy immediately is related to the Public Procurement Act with the need to carry out procedures. We do not have such a procedure at this stage that has ended with a contract for the purchase of precisely such devices in such a large amount. There are problems with the production of devices worldwide. At the moment, many manufacturers declare that they can deliver them after the middle of next year, as we have an increased demand for devices around the world, we are talking about large quantities, although on the commercial network we will see that there are devices available. When we talk about large quantities, it takes more time. So in this direction, we have taken action. It is correct to note that children who did not participate in e-learning did not participate so much and only because of access to devices and the Internet, but because of the reluctance of some of them to participate. Yes, there are children who have obstacles inability to buy devices, but the fact is that we have nearly 20% children, where we have problems with their engagement, regular attendance in a normal situation, in attendance training. These children were not included in e-learning. On the other hand, we have families in which there are not enough devices, but parents did their best to provide temporary ones, although, you know, in the spring, a lot of parents didn't go to work either. The devices were less than needed in a family, but they made efforts. In other words, our main problem is not only poverty, but the lack of attitude, the responsibility of parents to education. Most of these families, including children, have smartphones. We saw that other things were going on the smartphones. It was sermons, it was business activity, but not training in an electronic environment. By making Wi-Fi points in separate areas, we limited them only to using educational resources, educational sites. Very quickly lost interest in a few hours, to these Wi-Fi points and now we are in front of the dilemma to leave them there, or to return them to schools. They will not be permanently left in their seats. These are routers that will be used in schools. We have undertaken a campaign to build local Wi-Fi networks in all schools, and in a small part of the schools must be rebuilt, so these routers will be used. By the way, the devices I mentioned to you will not only be used in e-learning.. they will be used for schools and teachers. In each classroom the teacher must have a device as it works with an electronic diary, with possible frontal training, must provide, connect with a multimedia display or with a projector this laptop. Respectfully, during the rest of the time, those who are for students will be used in school. We have also provided for the construction of the so-called STEM centres on average one third of their costs are related to the purchase of equipment. And at the moment, there are more than 60,000 devices in schools, but most of them are stationary computers, which does not allow them to be used during an emergency situation. I neglected to say that when these computers are purchased, their use will also be regulated, including the obligation of schools of mutual assistance to other schools, as we have those in which 2% of children do not have devices, and others where 20% do not have a mechanism for mutual assistance between schools is needed. In general, we should have at least 10% of students' devices in schools, and we are talking about laptops basically, as I have already said, much of the computers are currently stationary. There was such assistance during the state of emergency. Currently 0.4% of the classes are quarantined. Even if they become 1%, there is no problem if the current total level of the average daily number of infected with the available technique to ensure training in an electronic environment is maintained. It's a problem when the whole system comes out. Let us hope that this year will not happen, but it is very likely that if seasonal influenza viruses occur, you know, they have the opposite of the coronavirus, children are much more vulnerable than adults, of infection. The two viruses can increase each other. We hope to be ready when this happens most likely during the winter months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u84	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Nieva, in this comprehensive reply, a reply? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u85	Dear Minister, for the successful conduct of the distance training three elements are needed.. Internet connection, electronic device and single platform. Access to these three elements must have both students and teachers. As early as March this year, when the emergency situation with regard to COVID-19 was introduced, BSP put these important issues that excite not only students, but also parents, especially younger students in the first and second grade. Is the Ministry ready for successful remote learning, even when setting a second CIVID wave, whichever indications there are?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u86	Thank you, Ms. Niva. A hole, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u87	Yes, we are on standby. The system is much more prepared, including technical security, even taking into account that, as I told you, these large quantities will not be able to be purchased in a short period. In general, the system is ready. I have also confirmed changes in the regulation. Part of the training can be performed asynchronously, that is, it is not necessary at any time for the child to have an electronic device.. This is where in a family there is one device, but two children. The system is much more ready than in the spring to switch to training in an electronic environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u88	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. This was the last question for Minister Valchev. We continue with Mr. Kostadin Angelov, Minister of Health. He will answer a question from the National Representative Stefan Apostolov about the activities of the Center for Assisted Reproduction. You have the floor, Mr. Apostolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, between 10 and 15% of couples in Bulgaria have reproductive problems. Thanks to assisted reproduction methods, many of them managed to realize their dream to have a child. Increasing support for couples with reproductive problems was also an election promise of the political party GERB. At the beginning of 2019, I asked the same question to the Minister of Health. Almost two years later, I come back with questions on the same subject, the reason being explained the conditions in which we live at the moment, namely the pandemic of COVID-19. My questions to you, Minister, are the following: have higher criteria been introduced to in vitro clinics in order to improve the success of procedures? What is the period from the submission of an application for organizational and financial support from the Center for Assisted Reproduction until the delivery of the order? Are there difficulties in the success of in vitro processes and how many children were born as a result of the procedures carried out under the conditions of a pandemic by the CIVID-19?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u90	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u91	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Apostolov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The policy carried out by the Ministry of Health on priorities related to demographic health issues in the Republic of Bulgaria and, in particular, with the support of birth rates by extending assisted reproduction activities funded by the state is in line with the growing needs and expectations of couples with reproductive problems. In early 2018, regulatory changes came into force, which significantly extended the scope and indication of State-funded assisted reproduction activities, increased significantly their funding, access to couples with reproductive problems and the chance to achieve pregnancy. The annual budget of 12 million BGN, guaranteeing the financing of around 2500 procedures, was increased to 20 million. BGN, which allowed an increase in the number of couples financed by the Center for Assisted Reproduction. As regards the requirements for success by medical institutions carrying out assisted reproduction activities, I should point out that the changes in 2018 in the Rules on Organisation of Work and Activities of the Center for Assisted Reproduction introduced higher criteria for success, namely the requirement for the percentage of clinical pregnancies achieved increased from 20 to 25%. In this regard, a total of 30 hospitals, which were contractual partners of the CAR in 2017 at the beginning of 2018 of the increased requirements for success met 26 hospitals. Subsequently, after meeting the success criteria, contracts with three more hospitals were concluded. Regarding the period from the submission of the application for organizational and financial support by the Board until the service of the application for approval was settled permanently at one month at the end of 2018. This period was about 11 months for comparison in 2017. With the outbreak of the CoVID-19 pandemic, the anti-epidemic measures and guidelines taken by the government and the National Operations Headquarters have enabled the hospitals and the CAR to establish an organisation providing safe working conditions. In order to limit contacts in the most risky period of the pandemic in § 19 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law on Measures and Actions during the emergency situation and to address the consequences, the period of validity of the issued orders for organizational and financial support for carrying out assisted reproduction activities is extended and will continue six months after the emergency situation has been lifted. The dynamically changing epidemic situation and the measures taken promptly imposed maximum use of digitalised and other forms of communication, including for the provision of orders by electronic means, and limited the visits of applicants on-site to the CAR. The constantly maintained contact and feedback with them confirmed the correctness of the organisation of work. In the first six months of 2020, as a direct result of the epidemiological situation in the country, for the first time since the establishment of the CAR, the number of applications adopted decreased by 11%. The number of orders served in comparison to the same period of 2019. The preparation period for the procedure from issuing the order is also reduced by 26%. However, the permanent period of one month of the period from the submission of the application for organizational and financial support by means of the CAR shall be maintained until an order has been served, irrespective of the anti-epidemic measures and restrictions imposed. According to the clinics for the first half of 2020, the number of passed pairs of 2106 was reduced by only 2% compared to those passed in the same period of 2019. 2153 pieces. Temporary reduction in the volume of activities during the emergency situation on the occasion of COVID-19 should not affect the success of medical institutions, as it is a direct function of the professional skills of specialists working in them and not the number of couples passed. The established organisation of work, the expanded type and volume of activities financed by the Center for Assisted Reproduction, regular and timely payments of clinics demonstrate the successfully implemented commitment of the government to couples with reproductive problems and declared institutional and public support regardless of the exceptional circumstances associated with the pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u92	Thank you, dear Minister. The line, Mr. Apostolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u93	Thank you for your comprehensive answer, Mr. Minister. I want to wish all couples a greater success rate. After all, this is one of the methods that helps with the demographic crisis. I'd say 15% of couples is a pretty big percentage. That's about 140,000. Bulgarians who have reproductive problems.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u94	Thank you. Mr. Minister, the doppelganger? You don't. The next question to Minister Angelov is from the National Representative Georgi Mihaylov on the regime in educational institutions in the autumn half-season for the academic year 2020. You have the floor, Mr. Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister Angelov, Dear colleagues! After more than six months of interruption a few days ago, the new school year began presently. My question is: by what criteria was the access model for students and teachers in educational institutions developed; what is the diagnostic doctrine for patients - children and teachers who are questionable about infectious diseases; from whom was the model drawn up and whose experience is mutual? In my line, I will further develop my question. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u96	Thank you, Mr. Mihailov. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u97	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Professor Mihailov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! An Interdepartmental Working Group with experts from the Ministry of Education and Science and the Ministry of Health has been established in relation to the upcoming attendance launch of the school 2020 The guidelines contain mandatory recommended health measures that are based on the currently established and recommended by both the World Health Organisation and the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, namely: respect for physical distance, hand hygiene, wearing facial protective masks and disinfecting surfaces and objects. The measures should be applied according to the specifics of the collective and the material basis for achieving the so-called cocoon strategy, which provides the possibility of reducing non-essential contacts and the risk of occurrence and spread of infection. Those measures are also scheduled in all my orders concerning the organisation of the working process and visits to public places, i.e. spaces and places related to the accumulation of people, which increases the possibility of transmitting the virus to the COVID-19 in the presence of a sick or asymptomatic virus carrier. An open list of recommended solutions for ensuring distance between classes is attached to the Rules on movement and access to educational institutions in the guidelines drawn up, in accordance with the Strategy for non-interaction between students of different classes set out in the document. An organisation for one-way movement in the corridors and stairs, rules for regulating the entry and exit into the school building without crowding the entrance and keeping the distance, setting a maximum number of students who can enter according to capacity, opening up if possible more entrances so as not to allow clustering as far as and where applicable and where possible, with those primos aiming to reduce non-essential contacts between students from different classes. In relation to the issue of behaviour in the event of clinical complaints, I inform you that the clinical symptoms described are in line with the recommendations of the World Health Organisation for the designation of a person suspected of CIVID-19 based on the data currently accumulated on the clinical course of the disease in a number of countries. From the workshops and communications held in different formats between representatives of the Member States of the European Union and on the European continent with the participation of Bulgaria, it is found that the measures drawn up and implemented in the country are common, universal, introduced in a number of other countries. I believe that in view of the approaching flu season and the associated difficulties in differential-diagnostic plan with regard to seasonal influenza and COVID-19 with the introduced algorithm for behaviour, as well as with anti-epidemic measures, we will limit the possibility of importing the new coronavirus into student collectives and its subsequent transmission and distribution into families and households, where, together with the students, elderly people and people with chronic diseases who are at increased risk of severe movement and death. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u98	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The line, Mr. Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Professor Angelov, honourable colleagues! More than a month ago, the UN Secretary General turned to the whole world with a single call, with a warning that what is happening with the so-called educational locout in the world can cause Too many models have argued about the behavior of nations over the past six months in the management of the CIVID-19 pandemic. There are a lot of data that suggest that the branded Swedish model in the first months, especially if we look at the mortality of a million people, has proved far more successful than some models of solid population movement in certain regions and certain countries. And that is why, in the conditions of the continuing pandemic, in the conditions of already in-depth knowledge of clinical behavior, the biological features of COVID-19, we should develop a very flexible model, as I, as a physician, create a very worrying impression of the way many things are presented in the public space for an increasing concern in the nation of growing, undoubtedly....................................................... Moreover, it has changed sharply "I hope, with our assistance, the policy of the Ministry of Health for the number of already tested suspected carriers. I would like to draw your attention to two facts. And here one of them very kindly provided it to me only a moment ago in his commentary: in the first days it was announced, so to speak, I use a journalist's word in the press that France closes schools in general. I carefully introduced myself to the French mass media and immediately saw statements by the French Minister of Education, who said that they were practically closed less than zero and two of the classes in the Republic of France, that the Republic of France did not intend to make an educational locout, and even more so, that the French Pediatrics Association shared this with your predecessor months ago, came out with a very careful, serious study that children practically do not suffer from COVID-19, and they are not carriers as well. When creating this policy that I asked you about, one major factor of a viral infection should be considered, and this is its contagious index.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u100	Mr. Mikhailov, please navigate.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u101	Yeah. I have witnessed your tolerance to previous speakers who...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u102	To you, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u103	...they talked for ten minutes. I hope that the question we are discussing is important...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u104	It's important.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u105	...and let me finish my thought. There are many questions, we will also have the opportunity in the targeted questioning about next Friday to debate them with you. My wish, my request to you is as a doctor, a professional, as a person who has come to the Ministry from the real front of health care, to show your whole mind, all your restraint in such a tense environment, especially psychologically, as is in the country, in the families, of people who have children who are in school, in order not to get to the unpleasant psychological effect and eventually, God forbid, to management decisions that would violate the presence of the school year, as this would prove detrimental to the nation, detrimental to its future. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u106	Thank you. Mr. Minister's doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u107	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Professor Mihailov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Mihailov, I respect you very much as a doctor and professional I have said this many times. I understand your concern and your call from the stands of the National Assembly to show reason and concern. And I have another question: what reason and concern do we have in this room when half of the MPs stand without a mask in a closed space? This is an extremely important element with which we set an example to all those who watch us on television, including the students you speak of. If MPs who aren't doctors don't understand this professional, I'd say the risk that we all expose ourselves to, you as a doctor understand it perfectly because you always wore a mask when you were involved in transplanting bone marrow patients, and you know the mask protects. And I can't figure out what doctoral arguments at this point give us the right to go to the closed building. It's clear to everyone without a mask? You know most of the doctors who broke up with their lives. They were one of us like me, like you. Should we explain to them, too, to their families, that we do not think like doctors, as people who, as you say, need to exercise reason and concern? And what is not clear in the Minister of Health's order about closed spaces and about walking in a mask indoors and that we should use and read the Gospel in a different way than the godly, or that we should not give this example of which you speak? The whole of Bulgaria is watching us right now. I think that we, as reasonable people, as doctors, first of all, should be the people to imitate both students and people when they see us indoors. Thank you very much. [[Private applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u108	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. [[Reply from the National Representative Georgi Mihailov.]] You can't. No, you have no right, Mr. Mikhailov. I can't give you the floor under any circumstances. [[Reply from the National Representative Georgi Mihailov.]] The way you're holding it, here you go. However, please really in the manner of conduct, otherwise I will take away your word!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Professor Angelov, honourable colleagues! At the beginning of my procedure, I will also say that I respect you as a doctor and a colleague.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u110	Not Minister Angelov to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u111	Yes, I would like to say to you that I also respect the procedures in the National Assembly. But my procedure is as follows: a question has been asked here, an attitude has been taken to the problem. You should not allow us to enter into personal debates. I do not ask my questions as an MP personally to Professor Angelov. He is the holder of the Ministry and is therefore called to answer. If you want to have personal debates about whether there is, if there is no point in wearing masks, what is the effect of all this, then the whole structure of the debate in the parliamentary hall changes. I can answer Professor Angelov, but I don't want to abuse your patience. I have my arguments, they're very serious. But I ask you, by respecting him endlessly, not to allow another time to come to personal, so to speak, explanations, guidance. Neither do I allow myself to guide Professor Angelov, nor will I allow as a representative of the National Assembly to be guided by anyone who he is, no matter how much I respect him. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u112	I didn't accept Professor Angelov's duplicate as either personal or guidance, so I didn't intervene. We continue with the next question to Minister Angelov. The issue is from the MPs Kristian Vigenin and Nikolay Penev about the lack of progress on the completion of the new hospital complex of the Multi-profile Hospital for Active Treatment. You have the floor, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! In this parliament Minister Angelov is the third Minister of Health, we ask about the completion of the building of the new hospital complex of the Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment. So far, we have made four points on this subject only within this mandate. The commitment to the completion of the hospital is personally taken by the Prime Minister and has not yet been fulfilled. When I say in person in Yambol, in front of the Yambol citizens. At the beginning of this year, Mr. Angelov's predecessor, Kiril Ananiev, said that by a decision of the Council of Ministers of 27 December 2019 the state was given the consent to increase its participation in the capital of the hospital St. Panteleimon, the city of Yambol, and added that the government's commitment, respectively to the Ministry of Health, was confirmed to provide the necessary funding to complete the new hospital complex in Yambol by increasing the capital of the Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment. In this regard, we would like to ask the following: have the activities of completing the new hospital complex of the Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment started? If so, what stage have they reached? If not, what are the reasons and when is the implementation of the project planned? I use the case to address the Prime Minister Mr. Borisov: Mr. Borisov, Yambol is waiting for his promised hospital! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u114	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u115	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Vigenin, Mr. Penev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The budget of the Ministry of Health for 2020 provides for an amount of 13,5 million. lv. to increase the state's shareholding in the capital of the Hospital "St. Panteleimon" "Yambol." That amount represents the intended contribution for 2020 to Decision No 805 of 27 December 2019, to the Council of Ministers, amending Decision No 266 of the Council of Ministers of the same year to consent to make a financial contribution to the capital of the hospital. According to information from the company, the investment project has been updated and is declared ready to launch a public contract under the Public Procurement Act with the subject of the "Do build of a hospital complex at the Hospital "St. Panteleimon." The emerging pandemic of COVID-19 and the measures taken in this regard have placed the company in an unusual medical and adverse economic situation. The normal work of the medical establishment is very limited and difficult, given that the actions of the management team and the staff of the hospital are focused mainly on ensuring the normal functioning of the medical establishment as such and providing quality medical care to patients. I note that companies are independent legal entities and their management, including the management of their property, falls within the competence of their management bodies, which are obliged with the care of a good trader to manage their entrusted company and, in all their actions, to be guided to the greatest extent by the protection of its interests and to carry out the management activities and processes in compliance with the principles of legality, sound financial management and transparency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u116	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Penev, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u117	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, with the first part of your answer we are familiar. It is no different from the reply of your predecessor given in January this year. Thank you, however, for the answer you provided us, which makes it clear that despite the funding provided, despite the requests from the Ministry of Health for readiness and willingness to complete the new hospital complex in Yambol, the necessary finishing activities have not yet started. In my opinion, the lack of progress in the realization of the government of GERB as early as 2012 commitment to complete the new hospital complex in Yambol is an expression of neglecting the problem and delaying its solution in time and perhaps refusing to implement it at all. However, all this is at the expense of the quality of health services in the Yambol hospital, which is of the pavilion type. You know very well the situation of our hospital. It was built at the beginning of the last century, its wards are housed in different buildings, long distance from each other, which are currently far from the standards of modern medicine. Dear Minister, you are recently Minister of Health and we expect you to be responsible for the problem. In this regard, we believe that your responsible attitude should be expressed in engaging in specific actions and deadlines for the completion of the new hospital complex. In this regard, our specific question is: what will be your specific actions until the end of the mandate for the realization of this site? Thank you again for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u118	Thank you, Mr Penev. Mr. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u119	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Penev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Penev, my responsible attitude towards the problem has begun since the day of my oath in the National Assembly was Friday, on Saturday I was in Yambol. Personally, the director and the assistant director of the hospital have examined the entire hospital where they are currently working. She's a pavilion type. We visited a pulmonary ward, a surgical ward, vascular surgery, an emergency room. Then we visited the new corps you're talking about. The new corps you're talking about is an extremely large building outside Yambol, located on a meadow. According to hospital management, if this building is built and completed, it will not satisfy the needs of the hospital as they are at the moment. So they can neither fill it with hospital beds nor fill it with hospital staff nor fill it with equipment. According to hospital management data, the need for this building, if it is completed, must be done up to the sixth floor maximum. After examining this building, the hospital management said they had an idea to build a hospital building that could be located near the hospital in one of the parking lots next door to the hospital. The next idea that the hospital management shared was that there was a mall in town that wasn't inhabited, and this mall could be used to rebuild the hospital. After these conversations yesterday, I also saw the director of the hospital Dr. Rulkov. At the General Assembly of Regional Hospitals, which they held at Batak Dam, we spoke again. I'm waiting for the decision of the board of directors of the Yambol hospital in which of the three directions I told you about, we should go. I believe that the attitude is responsible and that we are taking the necessary care. Of course, I am open to all kinds of proposals and decisions, as long as they are in favor of the citizens of Yambol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u120	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Your answer was very sincere, but also painful. The next question to Minister Angelov is from the MP Dimitar Georgiev on PCR tests for COVID-19 in the country for the last three months. You have the floor, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u121	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable colleagues! My questions to Mr. Minister of Health are: how many tests have been carried out in the last three months and how many of the tests have been covered by the National Health Insurance Fund? How many of these tests are paid by citizens as individuals? Accordingly, I will continue with the question: at what price are the tests purchased by the National Health Insurance Fund or the Ministry of Health?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u122	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u123	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Georgiev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Georgiev, I will answer your question as asked. According to the National Information System for Combating COVID-19, which provides centralized management and storage of information for all diagnosed and quarantined persons, the total number of all carried out PF tests for the period from 25 June to 21 September 2020 is 370 thousand. 573 tests. According to information from the NHIF as of 18 September 2020, the medical institutions reported for payment from the NHIF 16 thousand. 673 directions for testing of a polymeric chain reaction for proving the COVID-19 carried out in the period 25 June 31 August 2020. Of them approved for payment are 15 thousand. 370 units and funds paid for these medical-diagnostic activities from the NHIF budget amount to 922 thousand. lv. According to the time limits in the National Framework Treaty on Medical Activities for 2020. 2022, those carried out in September and applied for payment by the NHIF tests are to be taken into account at the beginning of October 2020. In addition, I inform you that from the budget of the Ministry of Health for the period from the start of the state of emergency, funds of nearly 5 million have been made available to you. lv. to the RGIs for the purchase of tests and their provision to laboratories where necessary or for the award of this activity to existing laboratories for the examination of contact persons at discretion, persons from social services institutions, organised collectives, staff in kindergartens and kindergartens and others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u124	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The line, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u125	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! You replied to me that in the last quarter some 370 thousand tests were made, of which only 16 600 were approximately taken by the National Health Insurance Fund, and the other tests were paid personally by the citizens. There is a tension in civil society that at the moment the cost of the tests is very different. Part of my question and the proposal I want to make from the stands is to make a limit on the cost of the test, because for example citizens are currently paying tests of 80 to 160 BGN. In many European countries there is a limit on the cost of the test. Even in a neighbouring country outside the European Union, the maximum cost of the test is approximately BGN 60. Bulgarian money. There is a lot of speculation in this difference of tests because I have mentioned to you that in certain places, it is almost double. The request of civil society is if there is an opportunity to make a price that must be fixed and not exceed the price of a certain amount.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u126	Thank you. A hole, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u127	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Georgiev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Yes, the price is fixed. It's 60 leva. Such a price shall be paid by the State to all laboratories carrying out the PSUR tests when carried out by statement. This figure, which I told you, also includes the tests performed on Bulgarian citizens when they traveled during the summer to neighbouring countries and were carried out by private laboratories. They are included in this figure. With regard to the price of the PSR tests. It is different in different laboratories and is due precisely to the type of chain polymerizing reaction that is carried out, to the consumables that are for it, all sets that are necessary. So the cost of one test varies from 60 to 80 BGN. depending on the consumables. With regard to patients entering medical facilities, the tests are absolutely free. From 1 August they were taken over by the National Health Insurance Fund and the clinical trails were increased by 20 BGN. This allows for tests to be carried out in hospitals free of charge. All those in need who have been appointed by a doctor, the tests are also free. Only the tests of the Bulgarian citizens, which are carried out at will, are paid in private laboratories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u128	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The last question to Minister Angelov is from the National Representative Georgi Gokov concerning problems of people with disabilities when replacing a driving licence that occurs due to unacceptable huge delays in their certification by the Transport District Medical Expert Commission. You have the floor, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u129	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! My question is about problems for people with disabilities. Mr. Minister, you must know that the validity of the driving licence is limited to 10 years, and for some groups of people the restrictions are shorter. For example, for people with disabilities is a maximum of five years depending on disability. These people are given the opportunity to renew their licence after receiving an opinion from the Transport Regional Medical Expert Commission. There is an expert certification of the category of drivers of motor vehicles of disabled persons directed by the DMV and TELK, as well as cases of professional and physical fitness of railway employees and drivers. For all Southern Bulgaria, the only Transport District Medical Expert Commission is located in Plovdiv Multiprofile Hospital. There's one in Burgas, but it's further away. It is hardly a secret to you that people with disabilities from southern Bulgaria, including my electoral district, are waiting for an expert assessment unacceptable for a long time. According to the information of the victims at the moment, the mid-September hours shall be recorded for the end of February 2021. And for most of the people the validity of the driving licence expires long before that. This delay creates serious problems for those people who are already disadvantaged. Instead of helping them and facilitating their access to services, in this case, the opposite is actually the case. There must be some explanation for this unacceptable delay, but it is hardly logical and it is hardly considered reasonable by the people in a situation to be unable to renew their testimony. They appreciate this as screwing with people in their situation. In this regard follow the logical questions: do you know the nature of the problem, Minister? What will be the actions to solve the problem? What would you advise people who, as a result of these ineligible huge delays, are deprived of the ability to manage their motor vehicles? For most of them, you should know that driving is vital. Is it normal that in only four cities Sofia, Plovdiv, Varna and Burgas there will be established transport district medical expert committees in Bulgaria? Will the Ministry of Health take steps to refine depending on the disease and the degree of damage to who to testify from these transport district medical expert committees? A large number of disabled people can be witnessed in general order, the personal physician can decide, depending on TelK, whether it is necessary to send them to that committee or whether he prepares the relevant documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u130	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u131	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Gokov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The physical fitness requirements for motor vehicle drivers and applicants for the acquisition of motor vehicle driving licence, as well as the procedure for carrying out medical examinations, are laid down by Ordinance No 3 of 11 May 2011. The Regulation detailed the manner in which medical examinations are to be carried out to establish the health status of drivers and applicants for the acquisition of driving licence of the relevant categories defined under art. 105a, para. 2 of the Road Traffic Act. Illnesses and conditions where restrictions on obtaining a driving licence are required according to the category are detailed in Annex 1 to art. 4, para. 2 of the Ordinance. The diseases and conditions in which a driving licence is issued only after certification of the transport district medical expert committees tollek are detailed in Annex 2 to art. 5 of the Ordinance. The establishment and organisation of Tolek's activities is outside the competence of the Ministry of Health. The order of work of TOLEK is determined by order of the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications according to art. 10, para. 5 of Ordinance No 3 of 11 May 2011. TOLEK were established pursuant to art. 5, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Multiprofile Transport Hospitals of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, adopted by Decree of the Council of Ministers of 2001 and last amended and supplemented by April 2015. With regard to the clarification of the List of Diseases and Conditions, where restrictions on obtaining a driving licence are imposed, depending on the category of vehicle and in order to introduce the requirements of Commission Directive (EU) 2016/1106 of 7 July 2016 amending Directive 2006/126 of the European Parliament and of the Council on driving licences with the initiative of the Ministry of Health, Ordinance No 3 of 2011 has been amended and supplemented by 2 February 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u132	Thank you, dear Minister. Line, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, thank you for your reply, but I must tell you that if you read the transcript, you will see that it sounded extremely formal, administrative and boring and in no way gave any hope to those people who are waiting, as I was told, for more than six months to receive certification and there is no way to drive their cars during this time, and I told you that they are vital cars for some of them. It is clear that the issue concerns, besides the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Interior, but perhaps some synchronization should be done between the ministries. I'll do my best to ask the other two ministers as long as we can't solve it with you alone. The question to you was directed rather in his part the Ministry of Health to take steps to refine depending on the disease and the degree of damage to which to testify from TOLEK and which of the personal physician, because there is such an opportunity. You know that many TelK solutions do not suggest such extensive reviews by the Transport Medical Commission. You must also know that a huge number of people with disabilities with TelK solutions do not show them, but hide them in order not to go through this long procedure. I, by the way, can read you the whole procedure that I've described, how many documents they have to collect, how many things they have to go through. So these people are hiding the telk solutions. This raises a very serious question that we can get to some more serious problems, because an unwitting person who really needs certification of what he can and cannot do with his car can become serious road accidents. I see I'm running out of time, but I can't help but tell you two more things. There is a complaint that has come to the Committee on Interaction with NGOs and the complaints of citizens there is also a complaint to your Ministry of Health, I see from the complaint that has been sent to us, so you will have to decide there as well. And the last thing I'm saying, these people need an extension of the deadline, since you say or apologize at TOLEK that this is a result of the coronavirus, at least to extend the term of time, not you, but the Ministry of Interior, but we need some kind of interaction between the three ministries in order to solve people's problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u134	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. A hole, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u135	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Gokov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you for your further questions. I want to tell you that you don't have to create sync. It's my job. I will talk to the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Interior to create the necessary organization for these problems to be cleared. With regard to the complaint. Please send it to me in person so I can commit myself to it. Regarding what you are saying, whether we should reduce the requirements and transfer to personal physicians. I want to tell you that we are dealing with the necessary concerns regarding motor vehicle drivers, as these are people who go out on the roads and drive cars. We are all familiar with the number and figures that are unfavorable in Bulgaria regarding the so-called war on the roads and victims of it. We must approach all Bulgarian citizens responsibly, so we also care about those who are on the road. That's why I don't think we should ease this regime. On the contrary, we must be responsible for every single person we issue a certificate to drive a motor vehicle to be healthy in order to ensure the life and health of all road users. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u136	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Thank you for your participation in parliamentary control today. We continue with the Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev. He will answer a question from the National Representative Vesela Lecheva on the implementation of the Law on Physical Education and Sports adopted in 2018. You have the floor, Mrs. Lecheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u137	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the House! In 2018, the new Law on Physical Education and Sports was adopted, which entered into force from January 2019. It gave a period of one year in which all sports organizations had to be brought into line with the new legal requirements of the Law. For more than a year and a half we have seen that the Law is not implemented regarding the establishment of a National University Sports Organization under art. Art. 39 and Art. 43 of the adopted Law. The requirements are as follows: You know them very well, we need to know what the facts are and what the higher schools in the country have already started implementing this law, creating with a decision of their academic sports clubs to be members of the new National University Sports Organization. Unfortunately, we do not see either in the Rules of Application of the Law on Sports or any additional or regulatory document governing the way in which the new national sports organisation is to be established. At the same time, the University Sports Association, which, by the way, is a member of international sports organisations related to student sport, and in which they are members of independent sports clubs, which are legal entities, does not exist in the new Sports Act. My question to you is: why has nothing been done for the establishment of a National University Sports Organization and why is the Law not respected? What are you going to do about the normalization of the organization and management of the university sport in Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Lecheva. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u139	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Lecheva, according to art. 39 of the Law on Physical Education and Sports The National Organization for University Sports is a non-profit association for carrying out a common useful activity for the development and distribution of sport in higher schools. The legal framework of the association as a sports organization is in Chapter 4, Section 3 of the Law on Physical Education and Sports, where the requirements to be fulfilled are also the procedure for the entry of the National Organization for University Sports. In view of the nature of the organization, the initiative for its establishment should be of higher schools, sports clubs of higher schools and their members, students, lecturers and so on. At present, the Ministry of Youth and Sport has not applied for the entry of the National Organization for University Sports. When an application is made, the Minister for Youth and Sport will fulfil his statutory commitments relating to the examination and delivery of the application for registration of the organisation. The Law on Physical Education and Sports and its Rules of Implementation do not set any time limits within which this organisation is to be established. The period of one year, which you are quoting in your question, concerns bringing the activities of sports federations, sports clubs into line with the requirements of the new law. The role of the state is to create an appropriate legal framework and legal opportunities, and this was our main idea of the proposal in the new Sports Act to build such an organization. However, once again, the initiative must come from stakeholders. The creation of the new framework for student sports clubs, i.e. clubs created by a decision of the Academic Council of the Higher School, in the new Law on Physical Education and Sports came from the National Sports Academy and we accepted it. The promotion of sport for students, including students, and the support of sports organisations with the subject of activity in this area are one of the main priorities of the Ministry of Youth and Sports. Currently, the Association for University Sports is the organization that has brought its activities in accordance with the Law and has obtained a sport license as a multi-sporting federation, administering sports for students. The same is listed in the Register of Sports Organizations under art. 9, para. 1, t. 1 of the Law on Physical Education and Sports. The AUS has more than 23 years of experience in the field of university sport and is developing its activities, supported by the state, according to the statutory order. The organisation shall carry out its activities throughout the country. Annually, the activities of AUS "Academic" cover about 4,000 students, representatives of student sports clubs and universities. Currently its members are 16 sports clubs registered in public benefit for the development of sport among students in the country, and supporting the realization of its goals and tasks related to organizing and holding student sports competitions from the State Sports Calendar; development and support for the realization of a Programme for Student Sports Activities; holding seminars, discussions, conferences; various initiatives related to the promotion and promotion of student sport. These sports clubs have brought their activities into line with the new law. For this year, the AUS "Academic" has applied for financial support at the Ministry of Youth and Sports with a project under the programme for development of sport of students for 2020, approved by the order of the Minister of Youth and Sports and funded by a total of 165 thousand. lv. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u140	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Line, Mrs. Lecheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u141	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, it is obvious that your applications for student sport is a priority are only a declaration from the National Assembly's stand. And that you expect the initiative to come from stakeholders, precisely from higher education institutions, I believe that when you declare that this is a priority in your work, you could interact with rectors, with the Minister of Education, even more so that student sport is one of the most important units in sports systems in a number of countries, and you know it very well. Student championships are the most attractive, with the greatest prestige and the most seriously appreciated except among young people, but also among the entire sports community in a number of countries. What I dare say is that I don't mind and I know that the Association for University Sport is doing its duties conscientiously, but the order in the Law is different from what is currently happening in our sports system. The law is clear and clear that the only organization that has the functions to manage, organize and conduct competitions among students is the National University Sports Organization. She could also be the successor of the University Sports Association. If there is a good commitment on your part, it could very easily happen, and indeed after so many years university sport to take an important and significant place in the sport system in Bulgaria. So I think your next move... It's been 10 years since anything's been done in this direction. We were so good at participating in the signing of the new Sports Act and supported it in the Chamber. However, it is now a matter of your actions, adamant in this regard, to initiate these procedures, formal, I would say, to fulfill the Law and with content, not only formally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u142	Thank you. It's a hole, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u143	Dear Mrs. Lecheva, I will be very brief in my speech at the moment, as I had the opportunity to share earlier. However, this is a non-profit organisation and it should be an initiative of higher schools. So far, no one's called me for cooperation. If there is such intention, I am ready for a meeting and to provide any assistance to such an organization to be established. As you can see, the student sport is not at liberty. We have financed, we have secured funds that have been provided to the AUS in order to carry out all necessary student competitions, which are included in the calendar. In any case, I am ready for a meeting and my team will cooperate fully to register such an organization with the full awareness that student sport is really extremely important in the entire structure of the construction of the sports system in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u144	Thank you. The next question to Minister Kralev is from the National Representative Rumen Gechev on the difficult financial situation of the state enterprise..Bulgarian Sports Totalizer............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. You have the floor, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister! The Bulgarian Sports Totalizer is a legal entity created by the Law on Gambling to the Minister of Youth and Sports. In the published Audit Report No 0600200519 for the audit of the undertaking for the period 1 January 2017. The Court of Auditors, adopted by Decision No 99 of 4 June 2020, identified serious problems in its financial situation, in the implementation of legal provisions and in the absence of an effective legal basis, in the form of budget receipts for the benefit of the private gambling sector. With regard to the specific findings in that audit report, please respond to the following related questions. You, as the principal of the undertaking, when, in what form and with what results did you control its work, all the more so that, after each subsequent year of the period considered, the financial situation of the undertaking deteriorated? The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible 678 thousand. BGN, 2018 is 10 million. Two hundred and twenty-one Have you been informed by the company's management in writing or oral, including in the reporting annual reports of the State enterprise, a Bulgarian sports promoter, about the unequal position of the company in favour of its private competitors, and what specific measures have you taken to prevent the accumulation of losses in your entrusted state company and, consequently, profits in favour of private companies? Why did you not comply with the law on sugar, operating during this period, according to which the revenues of the State Enterprise are to be used for, I quote, "Support, repair, reconstruction, complete renovation or creation of new sports sites and/or sports facilities in state and municipal schools" I close the quote from the Law. The Court of Auditors of Bulgaria finds that not a penny has gone to the schools and that the funds you gave for awards to selected federations and athletes in the absence of rules and criteria. End of quote from the audit report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u146	Thank you. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u147	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gechev, as you point out in your question, the Audit Report of the State-owned enterprise, made by the Court of Auditors, covers a period from the beginning of 2017 to the end of 2018 and has been published nearly five months after changes in the Gambling Act initiated in January 2020, which completely alter the situation in the gambling sector. The deteriorating financial results of the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer by 2020 are no secret. The audit report quoted by you states that the reasons for this are.. I will quote only one:. During the period under review the activities of the state enterprise.................................. the activities of the state enterprise....................................................................................................................................................................................................... In this sense, the supported by GERB and the United Patriarchs (United Patriarchs) amendments to the Gambling Act, made this year, help solve the problem. On the basis of the legal changes adopted, I will quote data provided to me by the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer: The revenue of the state enterprise from the beginning of 2020 to 24 September, while under the conditions of pandemic and emergency, from the momentary lottery games is 59.2 million. BGN, which represents 141% growth compared to the same period last year. The proceeds from number games by September 24th are close to 104 million. BGN, or 24% of the same period of 2019. The revenue online is 4.3 million, or 68% more than the same period of 2019. The forecast of the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer for 2020 is to reach revenues of 235 million, which means that the enterprise will make profit for the first time since 2013 and the forecast of the revenues for 2021 is 400 million. BGN, in the case of total revenue for 2019 of 175,6 million lv. Regarding the control over the work of the State Enterprise, Bulgarian Sports Totalizer, since 2014 the Internal Audit Unit of the Ministry of Youth and Sport has carried out three audit checks in the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer in 2014, 2016, 2018 which are aimed at analysing and evaluating the management decisions related to the management of the financial resources in the enterprise. At the moment, by my order, a working group has been appointed to the Ministry of Youth and Sports to propose measures to implement the recommendations of the Court of Auditors' Audit Report. In the context of increased unfair competition in which the State-owned enterprise worked, it was necessary to take marketing measures to increase the interest in the products offered by the Totalizer in 2012. I cannot comment on the reasons why these measures were not taken earlier, but as a result of our joint work with the Board of the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer, changes were made in the way of presenting the momentary lottery games of the enterprise, new varieties of them were launched. According to the findings of the Court of Auditors' audit report, this step has led to an increase in revenue. Changes were made with regard to the advertising performance of the digital and momentary lottery games, which in the context of the legislation at the time, I believe were positive. The next step in this direction is the legal and regulatory changes that are already a fact and result in the company's revenue. The Ministry of Youth and Sport did not receive any official information from the management of the undertaking on an unequal market situation. In the annual financial statements, private companies are included as competitive, without an assessment of market conditions or a convergence. The Governing Council of the State Enterprise has addressed the Ministry of Youth and Sports with proposals for amendments to the Public Procurement Act, as the undertaking has the quality of a public entity and is obliged to apply the established regulatory order, including for the implementation of direct costs intended to ensure the implementation of gambling activities. In the context of strong competition from private companies, these requirements make it difficult to operate. This is a topic on which the Court of Auditors' report pays attention. In 2018, the Ministry of Youth and Sport offered the Ministry of Finance a supplement to the Public Procurement Act, which aims to free the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer from these requirements, but the proposal was not accepted. With regard to the means of repair and reconstruction of sports facilities in state and municipal schools, I would like to note that the already repealed text in the Gambling Act states: The Minister of Youth and Sports according to financial opportunities provides funds under an annual programme proposed by the Minister of Education and Science. The budget of the Ministry of Youth and Sports is formed by the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer and a subsidy from the central budget. It is a finality determined by the State Budget Act. In the case of declining incomes, the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer and correspondingly decreasing charges to the Ministry of Youth and Sports these funds are intended to support physical education and sport. For comparison, in 2014 the allocations to the Ministry of Youth and Sports were 31.7 million, in 2019. "Sixty-sixty-five million. Annual programs from the Ministry of Education and Science have not entered the Ministry of Youth and Sports. Also the collections of funds from the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer to the Ministry of Youth and Sports come as a total income and do not have the character of targeted funds that come under the relevant paragraph. After the recent amendments to the Gambling Act adopted in July this year, it was already regulated that 10% of the State enterprise's contributions to the Ministry of Youth and Sports will go to sports infrastructure in schools, while the other 10% will go to the Fund of Culture. In view of the increased expectations of revenue in the sports Totalizer, I believe that these requirements are feasible and the funds will contribute to improving sports infrastructure and to developing culture. The topic of sports infrastructure in public and municipal schools is extremely important. This year started the first of its kind program in Bulgaria to build gymnasiums in schools where there are none. The first stage of the programme is financed by 25 million. BGN granted by the government. A list of 51 schools, of which 40 are municipal, 11 are state-owned. The procedure has already started for the first 27 schools in which gyms will be built. At the same time, since 2014 the Ministry of Youth and Sport has allocated funds from its capital expenditure and under the Financial Assistance Ordinance for the construction and renewal of sports facilities, sports infrastructure in schools of over 400 thousand. lv. The Ministry of Youth and Sport also implements projects for nearly 7 million. lv. for the repair and reconstruction of three of the state sports schools financed under Operational Programme Your question also contains a statement that I can't help but comment on. The Court of Auditors' remark on the provision of funds for sponsorship and donation of sports events and athletes concerns money which the Governing Council of the State has decided to provide directly. These funds are not part of the allocation to the Ministry of Youth and Sports and no document states that the Ministry of Youth and Sport provides financial support under vague rules and criteria. On the contrary, the rules for financial support for sports federations and clubs that we have developed have reduced the subjective factor in funding sports organisations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u148	Come in, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u149	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleague Kralev! You have answered five percent of the questions and are asking us what the government has done after you bloomed with 700 million. lv. stolen from the Bulgarian Treasury, according to your calculations. The tragedy is that all this time, your entrusted firm has been making a full contribution to the robbery. Why? The Court of Auditors says that while the state firm for which you are responsible pays 15% of the bets recalculated by the Court of Auditors to the same bets, the companies of Mr. Bozhkov and other gambling companies paid between 8.43% and 9.93 percent. When you did three audits, who did these audits? What are these experts? Are they gymnastics?! Didn't they see that the state firm paid almost twice as much to the treasury as private gambling companies? And when there's no money in the state firm, of course she can't do business. With full support, you have left to rob for years private jets, cigars, works of art. And for the state firm, the Court of Auditors says: in 2014. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of 624 thousand. lv. losses; in 2015 The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the 788 thousand. lv. losses; 2016 losses are almost 8 million. lv.; 2017 is almost 11 million. lv.; 2018 The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. Two hundred and twenty-one Didn't you see the firm was going down? In 2017, the company's own capital was 4 million. $450,000. BGN, in 2018 it is now only 1 million. 754 thousand. lv. It's going on an empty gourd. 30 June 2019 The Court of Auditors says: Five hundred thousand. (BG) What kind of company will you leave behind now that the terrain has been cleared, which has been ripped from everywhere? In addition, you know that before your period the full support started from 2012. You are a minister from 7 November 2014. Did you know that in 2012 your predecessor signed a contract with companies related to Bozhkov for more than 14 million companies of Bozhkov to make you software of the state company? Did you know that?! Did you know that there is a software program for 2 1/2 million again with companies of Bozhkov full support? They made you a program for non-happy products. Did you know, Minister, that this system doesn't work? Put the money back in the budget! After that, there was no program of the Ministry of Science and Education. The Court of Auditors says, Mr. Minister, that you haven't paid a penny. What kind of money are we talking about? How you distributed $23 million. Nine hundred and ten thousand. lv. in 2017 The Court of Auditors? In 2018, you personally distributed 25 million. 398 thousand. lv. Colleague, look, the relevant authorities will come and ask you how you distributed them. No one has told you that a minister in a country can distribute 25 million as much as he wants. You didn't comply with the Gambling Act. I say again, whatever you are doing here for 2020, in the period under review the Court of Auditors wrote a penny has not been translated to our children, schools, universities, for repairs, for new buildings. I'll finish with this. It is noticed that after the scandal took place and blew up the state, and changed the management board of the company..................... a very interesting people in this company, and before the management board, and now people are related to a football club with which the prime minister has a weakness. Have a nice day.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u150	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Part of your line was for ministers who have long been out of executive power. Here you go, Mr. Kralev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u151	Thank you. Part of the doppelganger wasn't aimed at my activities as a minister because it affected other periods. However, some important details need to be made. You quote missed benefits for the state in the form of budget receipts in favour of the private gambling sector. The Ministry of Youth and Sports is neither related to the determination of gambling fees nor to their collection. We don't have the competence to respond to them. It is clear that the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer has complied with the Law by paying 15% state fee. We have conducted an audit of the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer, not an audit of private companies, so that the Ministry knows how much private companies pay. Separately, in your final comment, I see a statement that goes beyond reality. What do I mean? The calculations that come from the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer, the 25 or 26 million you quoted, are part of the Ministry's budget. That is, the budget of the Ministry is formed by two things: for example, if we have a budget of 80 million. BGN, one part of the budget is formed by the revenues from the State Sports Totalizer, and the other part from the central budget. So all costs, these costs are not spent single-handedly by the Minister of Sports. They are part of the budget which has been voted and approved by the National Assembly, so there is not a single lev that is spent outside the funds provided for in the budget of the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-25.u152	Thank you, Mr. Kralev. Due to the lack of questions in parliamentary control, we are closing today's session. The next meeting is on September 30th, Wednesday, at 9.00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
