ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u1	Good afternoon, fellow Members. Let's say hello to the colleagues who participate remotely in the meeting.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u2	REPLIES (through an Internet platform for video conference): Hello! Hello!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u3	Please, registration mode! Anna Alexandrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u4	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u5	Valentin Kasabov? I don't see him. Vejdi Rashidov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u6	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u7	Georgi Kolev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u8	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u9	Daniela Dimitrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u10	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u11	Ivelina Vassileva?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u12	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u13	Konstantin Popov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u14	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u15	Mladen Shishkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u16	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u17	Plamen Nunev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u18	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u19	Thanks, guys. Eight MPs, registered remote. Please declare the registration. Registered in Hall 116 MPs plus 8 registered remote The number of MPs required to take a decision in Hall 63. Colleagues, I will introduce you to the National Assembly Programme for 25 November 2020: "1." Draft Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and Draft Decision for the Production of Elections for the Grand National Assembly for the adoption of a new Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. The representatives of the parliamentary groups of PP GERB, "United Patriarchs" and "VOLYA" of the Bulgarian patriots and non-members of the parliamentary group, 2 September 2020. 2. Second vote on the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021. Importer on 29 October 2020. Adopted at first vote on 6 November 2020. - Continue. 3. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Execution of Punishments and Detention. Importers supplied by Krasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs, on 13 November 2020. 4. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Family Code. Importer supposed the Council of Ministers on 28 August 2020. Adopted in the first vote on 23 September 2020. 5. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Radio and Television. Importer of the Council of Ministers, on 30 October 2020 6. First vote on the Draft Law amending the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Non-Profit Legal Entities. Importer of the Council of Ministers, on 15 October 2020 7. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Maritime Spaces, Inland Waterways and the ports of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer of the Council of Ministers, on 15 May 2020. Adopted in the first vote on 3 June 2020. 8. Parliamentary control. Mrs. Daritkova, you have informed me that there will be a procedure before the vote. Mr. Ivanov, what will be your procedure? I don't know!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u20	Madam President, honourable Members! In view of the forthcoming vote, I am making a roll call vote procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. We're starting a roll call, this time backwards. [[Noise and lines.]] Yavor Rumenov Bojankov- absent Yavor Bozhilov Notev- here Yulian Mihailov Papasimov- here Julian Krastev Angelov- here Chavdar Yordanov Velinov- here Tsvetan Borisov Topchiev- absent Flower Valcheva Karayancheva- here Hristo Tanchev Prodanov- absent Hristo Georgiev Gajev-here Hristian Radev Mitev- here Hassan Ahmed Ademov - absent Hamid Barry Hamid-- absent. Halil Rexepov Letifov is absent Hayri Recepov Sadakov- absent Filip Stefanov Popov - absent Thomas Nikolov Tomov- absent Toma Lubomirov Bikov- here Todor Baychev - absent Teodora Radkova Georgieva- here Teodora Atanasova Halacheva- absent Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov- absent Tanya Todorova Petrova- here Tanner Mehmed Ali is missing. Stoyan Radkov Bojinov- here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev- absent Stay Mitev Stoynov- here Stefan Ivanov Burgeev - absent Stefan Apostolov - here Stanislava Krasimirova Stoyanova- here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov- absent Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov- here Stanislav Ivanov Stoyanov- here Stanislav Ivanov Popov- here Save Yanev Panchev- here Spas Georgiev Gurnevski- absent Smilyana Nikolova Niva-Krsteva- missing Slavcho Stoev Atanasov- here Slavi Dichev Netzov- absent Simeon Hristov Simeonov- absent Simeon Georgiev Naydenov- here Sergey Manushov Kichikov- absent Sevim Ismail Ali is absent Svetlana Angelova Naydenova- here Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova- missing Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev- here Rumen Petrov Genov- here Rumen Nikolov Georgiev- absent Rumen Vassilev Gechev- absent Rosen Malinov Malinov - absent Rosen Zhivkov Ivanov- here Ramadan Bajram Atali is absent Ralitsa Trilkova Dobreva- here Radostin Radoslavov Tanev- here Radoslava Plamen Chekanska- here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev- absent Polina Tsvetoslavova Tsankova-Hristova- here Polina Alexandrova Shishkova- absent Plamen Trifonov Hristov- absent Plamen Tachev Petrov- here Plamen Ivanov Manushev- here Plamen Dulchev Nunev (through the Internet) video conference platform)- here Peter Hristov Petrov- here Petar Georgiev Kanev- absent Pavel Dimitrov Shopov- absent Pavel Alexeyev Hristov- here Nona Krasteva Yotova- missing Nikolina Panayotova Angelkova- here Nikolay Tsvetanov Sirakov- here Nikolay Krastev Boshkov- absent Nikolay Ivanov Tsonkov- absent Nikolay Dimitrov Penev- absent Nikolay Georgiev Ivanov- here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov- absent Nikolay Asenov Tishev - absent Nikola Iliev Dinkov- absent Nigyar Sahlim Jaffer is absent Nelly Ruskova Petrova- here Nadia Spasova Klisurska-Zekova - absent Mustafa Sally Karadaye- absent Mladen Nikolov Shishkov(through the Internet) video conference platform)- here Mikhail Ivaylov Hristov- absent Mitko Kostadinov Polychronov- here Milko Nedyalkov Nedyalkov- absent Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova- here Milen Vassilev Mihov- here Menda Kirilova Stoyanova- here Martin Stefanov Obreshkov- absent Maria Shtereva Belova- here Maria Yordanova Tsvetkova- here Maria Yordanova Ilieva- here Margarita Nikolaeva Nikolova- here Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Manoil Minchev Manev- here Lyubomir Boykov Bonev- absent Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov- here Lilyana Drumeva Radeva- here Lalo Georgiev Kirilov- here Krastina Nikolova Takova- missing Krum Kostadinov Zarkov- absent Cristina Maximova Sidorova- absent Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Krasimir Hristov Jankov- here Krasimir Mitkov Subev- here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev- here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov- here Krasimir Georgiev Tzipov- here Krasen Georgiev Krastev- here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Konstantin Veselinov Popov (through the Internet) video conference platform) - here Kolyo Yordanov Milev - absent Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva- here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin here Kalin Nikolov Popovski- here Kalin Lubenov Velev- here Kalin Dimitrov Vassilev- here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev- absent Yordan Iliev Yordanov- here Yordan Apostolov (through the Internet) video conference platform)- here Ihsan Halil Hakke is absent Honest Vasilev Veselinov- here Irena Todorova Anastasova- absent Irena Metodieva Dimova- here Imren Ismetova Mehmedova- absent Ilian Angelov Timchev- absent Iglika Ivanova-Subeva- here Ivo Angelov Hristov- absent Ivelina Veselinova Vasileva (through the Internet) video conference platform) - here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov- absent Ivan Stefanov Valkov- here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski- here Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev- absent Ivan Dimov Ivanov- absent Ivan Valentinov Ivanov- absent Brought to you by Vassilev Iankov- here Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev- absent Errol Osman Mehmet-- absent. Erjan Sebytin Ebatin is absent. Emilia Veselinova Staneva-Milkova- here Emil Seraphimov Tonchev- here Emil Marinov Hristov- here Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov- absent Elena Stefanova Pesheva- here Elena Vladimirova Angelina- here Evdokia Slavchova Asenova- absent Evgenia Danielova Angelova- here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva- here Evgeni Genchev Budinov- here Dragomir Velkov Stoynev- absent Dora Stoyanova Hristova- here Dora Ilieva Yankova- absent Donka Dimova Simeonova- absent Dobrin Nenov Danev- absent Dimitar Stoyanov Stoyanov- here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov- here Dimitar Krumov Alexandrov- here Dimitar Ivanov Danchev- absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev- here Dimitar Ivanov Avramov- absent Dimitar Velichkov Georgiev - absent Dimitar Borisov Glauchev- here Dimitar Boychev Petrov- here Dilyan Stanimirov Dimitrov- here Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov is absent Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov is absent. Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva- here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova- here Desislava Angelova Todorova- here Desislaw Slavov Chukolov- absent Desislaw Petrov Taskov- absent Delyan Slavchev Peevski- absent Dean Stoyanov Stanchev- here Danka Evstatieva Zidarova-Lurtova- here Daniela Dobreva Dimitrova(through the Internet) video conference platform) - here Daniela Dimitrova Maleshkova- here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva- here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova- here Daniel Petkov Yordanov- absent Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova- here Georgi Yanchev Gokov- absent Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski- absent Georgi Tenev Stankov- here Georgi Stratilov Svilenski- absent Georgi Nikolov Vergiev- absent Georgi Kolev Kolev (through the Internet) video conference platform) - here Georgi Yordanov Yordanov- absent Georgi Zaprev Dinev- here Georgi Evdokiev Markov- absent Georgi Dimitrov Andreev- here Georgi Georgiev Stoilov- absent Georgi Georgiev Mihailov- absent Galya Stoyanova Zhelyazkova - here Galya Eneva Zaharieva- here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov- here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev- here Vladimir Slavchev Valev- here Violeta Ruseva Jeleva - absent Veska Marinova Nencheva- absent Veselin Naydenov Mareshki - absent Vesela Nikolaeva Lecheva- absent Venka Kostadinova Stoyanova- here Velislava Ivanova Krasteva- absent Eyebrows Letif Rashidov (through the Internet) video conference platform) - here Vasil Tsvetkov- here Vasil Milanov Antonov- absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov- here Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov- absent Valentina Alexandrova Naydenova- absent Valentin Mirchov Milushev- here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov(through the Internet) Videoconference platform) - absent Valentin Ivanov Radev- here Valentin Georgiev Lambev- absent Valentin Alexiev Nikolov- here Bürhan Ilyazov Abase - absent Boryana Lyubenova Georgieva- here Borislav Ivanov Borisov- here Boris Yankov Yachev- here Boris Petkov Kirchev- here Boris Vangelov Borisov- here Bogdan Emilov Botsev- absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov is absent. Atanas Petrov Kostadinov- absent Atanas Ivanov Tashkov- here Asya Atanasova Peeva- here Anton Konstantinov Kutev- absent Anna Nikolaeva Slavova- absent Anna Vasileva Alexandrova (through the Internet) video conference platform) - here Andrian Ivanov Raykov-- here. Angel Iliev Isaev- here Anastas Marinov Popdimitrov- absent Altimir Emilov Adamov- here Alexander Tihomirov Simov- absent Alexander Rumenov Nenkov- here Alexander Petrov Alexandrov- here Alexander Nikolaev Sabanov- here Aleksandar Mairov Siddi-here Alexander Koychev Ivanov- here Alexander Ivanov Matsurev- here Alexander Dimitrov Pawnov- absent Albena Vladimirova Naydenova- absent Adlen Shukri Shevked is absent. And Nikolai Alexandrov is here. There's a quorum. Colleagues, we're moving on. I put to the vote the agenda proposed by me. Once again, the required number of MPs to make a decision is 63 today. We start with the coworkers who are remote. Anna Alexandrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u22	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u23	Vejdi Rashidov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u24	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u25	Georgi Kolev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u26	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u27	Daniela Dimitrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u28	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u29	Ivelina Vassileva?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u30	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u31	Konstantin Popov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u32	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u33	Mladen Shishkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u34	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u35	Plamen Nunev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u36	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u37	Thank you. They voted 108 MPs in the hall and 8 remotes became 116, 103 plus 8 remotes became 111, against 5, no abstentions. They voted 116 MPs: 111 against 5, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u38	Messages: On 18 November 2020, the National Assembly received a copy of Decision No 15 of 17 November 2020 of the Constitutional Court in Constitutional Case No 4/2020. In its ruling, the Constitutional Court declared an unconstitutional article. 251b, para. Second sentence, third sentence, Art. 251, para. 2nd sentence, second sentence, Art. 251d, para. 5 concerning the words................................................................................................ 251b, para. Second sentence, third and third sentences, and Art. 2151, para. 1 sentence, 2nd, para. 3 and 4 concerning the words.................................................................................... 251c, para. 2 sentence 2 of the Law on Electronic Communications, and § 51 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly on 13 March 2020 and for overcoming the consequences. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria in implementation of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces informs the National Assembly that it has authorised by its own orders: the passage through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria of the non-military nature of: - a plane with its crew from the Air Force of Ukraine. The permit shall be valid for passage through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria on a flight from Ukraine route to Kosovo without landing on the Bulgarian territory from 7 to 10 December 2020, including for the purpose of carrying out rotation of a national Ukrainian contingent engaged in a mission in Kosovo; - a plane with its crew from the air force of Ukraine. The permit is valid for passing through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria on a Ukraine flight route.Afghanistan "Oman" Ukraine, without landing on the Bulgarian territory between 8 and 15 December 2020, including for the purpose of carrying out the rotation of a national Ukrainian contingent in a NATO mission. The orders issued are within the competence of the Minister of Defence, concerning the assessment of the military parameters for the country's transition to defence. On issues concerning export control and compliance with international and plantation regimes mandatory for the Republic of Bulgaria, the country's airspace clearances should be granted to the countries concerned following a positive opinion from the competent state authorities in these areas, the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The notifications were received on 24 November 2020, with entry No 003-09-96 and entry No 003-09-97, and were submitted to the Defence Committee. Information was received from the National Statistical Institute on: The main results of the labour force monitoring in the third quarter of 2020; Inflation and Consumer Price Indexes for October 2020. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Moving on to the first item of today's agenda: PROJECT OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND THE PROJECT OF A DECISION TO PROCREATE THE GRAND RESTRUCTURING FOR THE ACCEPTANCE OF A NEW CONSTITUTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. The representatives of the Parliamentary Groups of the Political Party GERB, the United Patriarchs, the Bulgarian Rhodolists and the non-members of the SG on 2 September 2020. I'll give the importers the floor to present the Project to us. Mrs. Atanasova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u39	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On 2 September, draft decisions were submitted. On the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to art. 160, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 158, p. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 88, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure submitted a draft decision to produce elections for the Grand National Assembly for the adoption of a new Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Project! DECISION for the production of elections for the Grand National Assembly adopting a new Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly on the basis of art. 160, para. 1 in relation to art. 158, p. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Elections for the Grand National Assembly for the adoption of a new Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. In addition, according to the requirements of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure and on the basis of art. 159, para. 1 in relation to art. 158, p. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 76, para. 1 of the Rules we introduced the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria with reasons for it. We propose that these two decisions be discussed and voted on today's agenda at the regular plenary session. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. In fact, we will only vote on the draft decision to hold elections for the Grand National Assembly, that is all I will put to the vote. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. Here you are, you have the floor to speak. Mr. Yankov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u41	And there's no Commission report?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u42	There is no committee, the Commission has not submitted a report. There are only motives for importing the proposal. Mr. Yankov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u43	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! For amendments to the Constitution. "For a new Constitution. " "Remove the Grand National Assembly." "Remove the number of Members of the National Assembly. " Change of the basic law for achieving reform in the judiciary and prosecution. " Where did these calls come from? These are part of the demands of almost every demonstration against the various rulers during the years of democracy. In the same way the current protests started with such calls, President Rumen Radev joined them. With the adoption of a new Constitution, there are prerequisites to create mechanisms that will actually destabilise the established sustainability of our state structure. What is the quality of being a Constitution flexible? It is absurd to remove the Grand National Assembly. It is a guarantor of the wide public representation in decision-making for changes to the Basic Law and may be an obstacle for changing to someone's party or personal whim....................................... the state structure of the Republic of Bulgaria. The current Constitution is sufficiently balanced and has been established under conditions of national agreement and secures the transition from totalitarian state to democracy. It guarantees the rights of Bulgarian citizens and defines the Republic of Bulgaria as a social state. Have we provided this to our countrymen? Do they have equal access to education, do they have the right to work? Are incomes sufficient for a decent life for both workers and pensioners according to the constitutional right of the citizens of the social state? Creating a new Constitution cannot be a self-inflicted act. It must arise from the need for changes that society has specifically formulated and there are clear political entities to make them into a basic law. With this low support for the current National Assembly, with exhausted confidence in the ruling majority and unexpressed opposition, it is impossible for us Members of this Parliament to attribute such a responsible mandate. We, the MPs, united with a common position and defining ourselves as progressive socialists, do not support the submitted draft Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria with the belief that the current Basic Law is not exhausted, our duty is strictly to respect it and the stable functioning of our state structure is at stake. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u44	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Zarkov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u45	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! When yesterday evening suddenly we found out that the first topic of today's meeting would be the drafts of a new Constitution and a solution for the convening of a Grand National Assembly, we were initially amazed: "Now where did this come from?! Didn't they give up this farce after the crystal clear and strong critical opinion of the Venice Commission, which they themselves sought? However, what makes more sense for a trial that began between two protests than ending between two budgets?! The Constitutional Koorfishek, which is essentially the two projects, was initially intended to confuse the protesters against corruption, at the end of it he was obviously looking to distract again this time the worried about the deepening health, social and economic crisis. Of course, neither the so-called restart has been able to cover up the traces of the corrupt actions of the institutions in relation to the rule of law, nor will the current foretold false start cover up the government's inability to organise an effective, lasting and predictable response to coronacrisis. On the contrary, they expose to the naked nature of power itself, power overpowering, powerless, power scared, but power willing to do anything to remain in power, even if it lays a hand on the country's Main Law. We could approach your ridiculous attempt at a new constitutional change, we could recall the weakly-literate first version of a constitutional text with his world-renowned prosecutorial and judicial initiative, with the wrong crest, with the forgotten Preamble... With great affection and immense talent Valeri Petrov sings the kind of flying people. Some people will deal with the Preamble, coming out from under its feather, as a flying leaf, that they will simply miss the desire to express the will of the Bulgarian people and their loyalty to the common human values, that they will not consider it necessary to proclaim their determination to create a democratic, rule of law and social state. Well, the poet left this world before seeing this country and it's still gone, but this country didn't take place because of the Constitution, but because of the governments that didn't respect that Constitution. And you, who have a direct responsibility for at least three of these governments, are well aware of that. We could have chosen another approach, we could have frankly mocked to turn to your pseudoconstitutional parliamentary effort, called a temporary committee, to discuss and analyse the project. Even leaving aside the high probability that the Constitutional Court would declare the decision to set up such a commission as unconstitutional, let us note, however, that there is no report of this committee among the documents at issue today, as could be expected, in a similar situation. And indeed, what would we read in such a report, what would have happened in the heads of their members, to try to imagine? We got together and they said, "We weren't much." We looked at each other. We wondered what we were doing here. We are ashamed of ourselves at least those of you who have understood the absurdity of this task, and we promised to see each other again! That last one didn't happen. There was no other meeting of the Commission and it was not because of the restrictions of COVID-19, but because no politician, outside GERB and associates, and no authority in the area of constitutional law wanted to associate his name with this project. We could also recall that today's discussion was only possible thanks to the MPs who signed the proposed project, admitting heartily that they did not read it and in whose conscience the We could, but we have chosen another approach because what is happening is too serious and we have to explain this precedent because it is and continues to be dangerous. Not that there was no criticism, protests, strikes, murmurs, browsings, proposals, even exoduss, was torn, was burned in the squares, but no one ever dared to throw it in one direction by the position of power, so that the people would follow it, while he was sneaking out into the other. No one has done it because all the political activists, with all their cutting splinters, have so far understood the importance of this document and the danger of such a play. This is the democratic Constitution of our country, the charter of our fundamental rights and freedoms, and they don't cheat, they don't rearrange, they don't edit, they're suffering, they're conquered, they're conquered, they're reached after a long, hard and often dramatic historical path of an entire people, and they can be lost just like that, for a moment, due to a derelict political bluff. You're gonna say: you're exaggerating. Perhaps you think that I will compare Borisov with the Belarusian President still uses an approach and words similar to that of the Bulgarian Prime Minister, but let us not deviate so much and look into our own history. In his poem, the Bulgarian chronicles "Stefan Tsanev recalls the proclamation of Prince Alexander Batenberg of 27 April 1881. I quote: "Today's state of affairs makes it impossible to carry out my task. Therefore, based on the rights that the Constitution gives me, I have decided to convene a Grand National Assembly to announce my final decision to him. Only if the Grand National Assembly legitimizes those necessary for the country's governance conditions can I stay. Otherwise, I am determined to give up the crown, Batenberg said in 1881. Do I remind you of anything? Isn't it the same thing that the Prime Minister reported to us live through his profile in a popular social network after he warmed up the audience with the mysterious:! Hegel claims history tends to repeat itself. Marx adds that this happens first as a tragedy, and then as a farce. Is it true I do not know, but now remember, before you vote that after the proclamation of Batenberg really called the Grand National Assembly and it suspended the Tarnovo Constitution, the regime of credentials began. I do not claim that the majority's desire here or that of Borisov is to organise a dictatorship, but I am convinced that they risk starting a process on which there is no control and which they deeply do not understand. In fact, even world-wide statesmen and historically important have made similar mistakes. When he went to power in France in 1958, Charles de Gaulle was accustomed to it: "Why do you think that at the age of 67 I would still become a dictator? "The French who chose him, and 11 years later, see what a coincidence, in 1969, on the occasion of a constitutional referendum of his brought him down. They took down their most revered hero to this day, who brought down the liberator of Paris and of all France, who took down the creator of the Fifth Republic, who took him down because, taking advantage of his enormous authority, the general began abusing his right, organizing plebiscites, bypassing the Constitution and the guarantees for separation and control of the authorities. So they took him down because he stopped respecting the Constitution, the Constitution, which he had previously inspired and accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what democratic constitutions are doing to protect the people from abuse of power, but also the power itself from the pathologies of power. This is what our 1991 Constitution, which you so legitimately questioned. Not that it can't be changed, not that it should be seen as a holy cow. But let's be honest, it is exactly the part that needs to be reconsidered that allows control of the Attorney General and all the other prosecutors and guarantees his actual privacy, in this part you offer nothing. A whole new Constitution supposedly, a Grand National Assembly, proposals from the number of MPs to the promotion of birth rates, but on this particular issue, a little bit. The Venice Commission euphemistically defines this fact as a missed opportunity, but rather it is a conscious reluctance. The lost preamble was still found on the way to the Office, and the question of the prosecution and its functioning remained hanging again. So, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Madam President, the fathers of today's Constitution have provided for a long procedure and a qualified majority to protect it, thank God, because if your proposal were to act, it would surely change at the speed of anti-epidemic measures. Let us take advantage of their wisdom and vote against this project and put an end to this madness. Please do not be fooled that all this may have bought you time, but it has also brought down your little residual authority. That, of course, is your problem. Ours is to defend the Constitution on which we swore, taking office, and on which I hope, very soon, the MPs of the next 45 ordinary folk assembly will swear. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u46	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? Yes, Mr. Jablyanov, come in. I saw you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u47	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Today's item on the agenda for the examination of our country's fundamental law was included as quickly and as illegally as the idea was stated, and the project for such a Constitution was also exposed, and it will suffer a complete fiasco in the same way. Why did that happen? Firstly, I would like to strongly point out that the Group of Progressive Socialists in Parliament will vote clearly, openly, arguing against this violation of the constitutional spirit and constitutionalism as a general principle of our state structure. Because the law can also break the law when the principles of its creation are violated, the principles of the law not only as human but also as natural creation, when the logic of the public and state devices is violated. That's what you suggested. The law is not just a set of written norms, the state's higher law is not just a set of prescriptions for citizens' rights. The higher law of the state is both the philosophy and logic of the state structure, mutual control between the authorities, protection of civil and later in the 20th century, as a result of social revolutions, and protection of the social rights of citizens. This is the philosophy of our public and state institutions. The 1991 Constitution is an apotheosis of the struggle for a republican state structure of the Bulgarian people after its liberation from Ottoman power. The legacy of the Bulgarian Revival Holy and Pure Republic in the Grand National Assembly of 1878, is not realized, but the bequeathed republic was swept away by the covenants of the Great Powers, which established the constitutional monarchy a monarchy, which for a long time ruled without a constitution and without a parliament. This is the reason of the 1947 referendum for the Bulgarian people to speak out in favour of the republic. This is why a new republican Constitution was adopted in 1971. This is the reason why the Constitution was adopted in 1991, which proclaimed parliamentary democracy the highest form of sovereignty. Which of these do you object to, honourable importers of this comic constitutional project? What of today's parliamentary republic and the shortcomings of its functioning do you think can be removed through the proposals you have made? Nothing, dear colleagues! I also appeal to the self-named opposition: the criticism of the submitted project cannot only think about the place, functions and figure of the Prosecutor General, honourable fellow parties and colleagues! This is the narrowest possible interpretation of criticism against the submitted project you are proposing, this is a close understanding of why this bill should be rejected because it is the first organised attempt to review the 1991 Constitution in a conservative direction. I was hoping that the Socialist Group would understand this and highlight it from the stands, unfortunately, something has not reached, I cannot say what. This project is an attempt to limit civil and social rights in Bulgaria for the first time since the beginning of democratic changes and behind it are hidden many attempts to revise our basic law, including from other institutions. The idea of revision of the Constitution is not just the idea of the parliamentary majority of GERB, as my colleague Krum Zarkov noted, but it is floating in the squares. This was also noted by my colleague Krasimir Yankov, she is discussed in close and different formats in the presidential institution, from which we did not understand what came out. What constitutional option were they discussing with Mr. President? What don't they like about our parliamentary republic? What is the position of the esteemed leadership of the BSP parliamentary group on these issues - silence, honourable Bulgarian citizens, respected socialists! The main flaw was the attorney general's competence and who would control it. The main disadvantage is that the hinted social rights in the preamble are not fully developed in the texts and in the content part of the Constitution that specific texts do not guarantee the right to rest, the working time of the Bulgarian citizens is not guaranteed the free higher education in the country, which is supposedly written in the Constitution...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u48	Get it over with, Mr. Jablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u49	Excuse me, ma'am?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u50	Get it over with, your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u51	Your advice is extremely valuable.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u52	I hope so, but it's not advice, it's urging you to end it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u53	That's a recommendation, thank you. You play the role of the device that is not in the new parliament. Put on a device.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u54	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u55	Please turn off my time. We cut off the thought, see?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u56	Your time is up, so I interrupted your thought. Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u57	You can't do this, give me a minute to graduate.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u58	One minute.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u59	If the 1991 Constitution is to be supplemented, it is for the social rights of Bulgarian citizens, who are constantly violated by various additions to the legislation to increase working hours, to reduce wages, to actually paid higher education with various semi-legal and illegal methods.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u60	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u61	I'm done. The Bulgarian Constitution must be developed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u62	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Bojankov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u63	Madam President, honourable Members! It is no secret to the MPs and to the Bulgarian society how this project was born and for what purpose. Your men have requested your resignation. They asked you to leave, and you gave them the Constitutional Project. This political maneuver has succeeded. Here we are now. It bought you time at what price is a very separate topic. The BSP colleagues and I have been thinking a lot about what you did these eight months from the first wave of the coronavirus to the second?! Obviously you haven't prepared the health system, apparently people are dying on the hospital stairs, obviously the economy hasn't been prepared, and obviously you've been working on this project in quotes in these eight months. This eight months later, not to use the final word is a crime against the Bulgarian people, because if the conditions were at the time of political crisis, Bulgaria is now in one of the most difficult moments in the last 30 years and you give this to the Bulgarian National Assembly. In these eight months, every respected constitutionalist expert, non-governmental organisation, lawyer, guild, told you that this project, to put it mildly, does not become the Venice Commission that you want, no one, not one, supported this project. [[GERB lines.]] Why, colleagues, did none of you take responsibility or actually take pride in the authorship of this project? Who is the father, who is the mother of this Constitution? Does none of you want to remain in history as the mind that created the draft of the latest Constitution in the history of Bulgaria?! And since none of you wants to admit who wrote this, we accept that it is the product of your collective efforts, of your legal capacity, of your collective mind. If we could describe GERB's ten-year governance in words, if we could, with a short text, liken and briefly tell people what was going on for those ten years, this would be this Constitutional project. He's your business card. With that, you may remain in history, with that you will be remembered by people. I don't know if you realize how unacceptable this is at the moment and how the executive is using it again to divert attention from itself to take public anger away from its own incompetent decisions. Today they burden you at this difficult time for Bulgaria to do this. But the names of the ministers will not stand under this project, they will not vote on it, they will not bear the historical responsibility, they will not bear any responsibility. Your names and your voices will stand under this shameful act. And if now from a position of power, from a position of power and from the false comfort that this gives you, you have reached new degrees of insolence and arrogance, think about tomorrow, when all this will pass and when the time will come to be held accountable. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u64	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. - What's the line? I can't see. We continue with the speeches. Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u65	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! From what has been said by colleagues from the left, it is clear that the constitutional debate in Bulgaria would be extremely difficult because it is difficult to find the focus and the topic of conversation. This is generally a serious problem for the Bulgarian society, because it will still be looking for a place to have a serious conversation. Today you are discussing the Constitutional project, which is only part of the procedure for convening the Grand National Assembly and this is the procedure we are continuing today. I can see from your mood that it will rather not take place, but I will try to explain our motives why we want and propose to convene a Grand National Assembly. We've explained this before. First of all, we have not declared war on the current Constitution. We take into account its advantages, we take into account its merits for carrying out the peaceful transition to democracy. We made this proposal in a situation of intense social tension, with the desire to define a place where political parties, civil society and Bulgarian citizens can hold a debate about the future of Bulgaria. I don't think that's a bad idea, and I don't think that's a bad initiative. Certainly in the coming months and years we will look for such a place because it does not exist in Bulgaria at the moment. We fail to reach consensus on basic problems, with some small exceptions, thank God, and this problem will probably deepen because political opposition passes through red lines that should not be crossed. Colleagues, we will support today's proposal to convene a Grand National Assembly. Perhaps soon the current Constitution will not be able to be changed because such attempts are exhausting public energy for changes and it becomes impossible for this debate to be held for a long period of time. Regarding our project, I would say that he gathered mostly the demands of protesters from the summer. One of these requests was the convening of a Grand National Assembly. Today we continue not to accept the argument that the present National Assembly does not have the legitimacy to initiate a procedure for convening a Grand National Assembly. Both the present National Assembly and all the national meetings since the last Grand National Assembly have been legitimate political bodies that have been elected in fair and democratic elections. And if we do not have consensus on this, it means that we are contesting both the Constitution and the rule of law of the state. I don't think any of us would afford that. We therefore believe that the present National Assembly not only has the legitimacy to convene a Grand National Assembly, but it is far more legitimate than the 35th National Assembly, which was elected with only one ballot and nevertheless called a Grand National Assembly, which laid the foundations for modern Bulgarian democracy. Constitutional conversation is a political conversation and it is not taboo for any society. It cannot be censored by one political force or another. It can be held legitimately, including in the Chamber of the National Assembly, where it is, by the way, its place. That's why I don't accept your accusations that we're almost breaking the Constitution just because we started a debate on it. The debate is the foundation of the democratic state, and it has a place in this Chamber, and not only does it have a place, but this room is the place where it should be held, not in the square, not on the street, but here in Parliament. Because parliament, colleagues, is still here, he is not in the square, as Mr. Radev said a few months ago. We have made a commitment to push through this procedure and to try to enter into dialogue with those who have protested against us. We passed the insults that were thrown against the ruling majority, personal attacks and launched the ideas of the protest. These ideas are the ideas that you today call an attempt at dictatorship and violation of democratic principles. We do not think, and as a matter of fact we do not support all these ideas. On the contrary, we also have comments on many of them. But our goal was also for this room to enter the conversation that was previously being held on the street because this conversation is about parliament. He's not for the square. Because the current Constitution was adopted in the National Assembly, not in the squares, and you know this very well as the successor of the party that was liding this process at that time. I will therefore call on you to be a little more open to debate, to differing opinions. The Constitution is not a Bible so it can't change. Any Constitution can be changed. The Bulgarian constitutional tradition is not long. In fact, today's Constitution is the first constitution to endure for 30 years without being suspended without being tainted by any government. We are committed to continuing this tradition. However, we are not convinced of your motivation to do so. Revolutionaryizing the opposition's position and radicalising your ideas will sooner or later clash with the current constitution, which is moderate. You're going down that road, and you'll probably get to what you didn't expect. Bulgaria will have other parliaments, and perhaps you will also experience the need to achieve political consensus, and political consensus will not be possible without us. In politics, the mastery is to work with those you don't like. [[(Applause and lines from GERB:]] And we know that very well. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u66	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u67	The masterpiece is to work with those you don't like, not just with those you like, and that is the basis of both the current Constitution and should be on a possible next, if ever accepted. In a democratic state, everyone has the right to vote and everyone has the right to talk, and we will stand for this right of ours. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u68	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u69	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! At the beginning of this session at the Forty-fourth National Assembly, we at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and stated clearly and categorically that we will not sign under the introduction of a new Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and that we will not vote for the convening of a Grand National Assembly, as is the point we are discussing. In our view, the proposed draft of a new Constitution by GERB is another blow to democracy and statehood. The original version of the New Constitution Project, written in haste, had given up universal values such as freedom, peace, humanism, equality, justice, tolerance and again so quickly they found some place in the proposed project. Dear ladies and gentlemen, in the Constitution, the rights of the person, its dignity and security must be raised in a supreme principle and not just like that, by the way, missed or included in any text. The Constitution as a basic law directly affects the rights and freedoms of all Bulgarian citizens. That is why all political forces must approach with the necessary responsibility. The constitution or the new Constitution must be adopted as a new public contract after serious debates in calm, normal and creative political time. The proposed new Constitution clearly does not meet public attitudes and expectations. When GERB speaks and proposes a new Constitution, he should at least prove by his actions that he is now following the current one, including here in the National Assembly, including in the legislation, including the President of the National Assembly. Alas, we are witnessing the violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and the laws of the country and the President of the National Assembly, and GERB in the National Assembly and in the legislation. The new Constitution or changes in the existing one must remove identified shortcomings in the existing one and be aimed at achieving the rule of law and strengthening democratic values, bringing the Bulgarian constitutional model closer to the best international and European models. However, we have also seen the evaluation of the Venice Commission, which was clear and clear that this project is not working, and we are explaining with this and so hastily submitting today for consideration. Your shame is so great and now you are trying to quickly get rid of the subject. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Members of GERB, I call on you to respect the existing Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and the laws of the country. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u70	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Baichev. Mr. Christov, did you raise your hand? Now after Mr. Baichev I'll give you the floor. Then Mrs. Niva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u71	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I must tell you that I was surprised to learn that a proposal to change the Constitution could also be made by 117 MPs. At least this was the initial request of you, colleagues from GERB, and if you were not ruling, it followed the administration of the National Assembly to throw away this project for a new Constitution and now let us not waste our time. Instead, however, Mr. Mareshki signed his signature without reading the project, as he himself said. And here I would like to tell you that we cannot support this project by joining my colleague Krum Zarkov's words and adding to your very motives which contradict the content of the project, namely: in your motives, colleagues, you concern and say that the subject of the Constitution is leading to many citizens and public organisations. Which citizens and which public organisations, colleagues, are we talking about? As far as I know, the mothers of disabled children don't want a new Constitution, they want new legislation and an increase in funds. The police, who are currently guarding us from popular love, are also on strike, but do not want a new Constitution, they want an increase in wages. The farmers are those farmers who want to level the subsidies. The tourist industry maybe? I don't think so. I doubt that the tourism industry especially at this very moment wants a new Constitution. Next, you say again that it is a Constitutional Project to protect the fundamental principles and foundations of our time. What time? What is characterized by globalism, migration, is that what we're going to protect? The ecological problems or what you are trying to do right now is the liquidation of the social state. I don't think these things have a place in our Constitution. Another thing that strikes me is that the basic law should be built in such a way that it is in line with European rules. I apologise very much, fellow Members, but it is with this current Constitution that we have been adopted as members of the European Union. If she hadn't answered, we wouldn't have been accepted. This is some kind of motive that only serves as a basis to push into some kind of conversation, but you are not saying anything essential about what you want to harmonise with European legislation. You want to convene a Grand National Assembly and adopt a new Constitution in order to strengthen the trust of citizens in the institutions. Well, the taxi drivers are on strike right now. Can you explain to me how, when you change the Constitution, you will strengthen confidence in the Ministry of Transport? Well, there's no way this thing's gonna happen, guys! And since your votes have not reached, colleagues, I would like and address the President Mrs. Karayancheva to search and call Mr. Mareshki, who will give us his informed opinion on what he thinks about the Constitution or at least about concessions, if the two things do not confuse them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u72	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. - What's the line? Mr. Hristov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u73	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! During all these years after the establishment of the current Constitution, many politicians and candidate political leaders promoted and declared themselves to change the model, to change the political system, to restart the political system, that even the state and this, of course, offered it to happen through amendments to the Constitution. In recent years, this talk has increased particularly, and even President Radev announced that there are ready proposals to change the Constitution, different types of showmen and showmen in quotes, which have been riding fair protests until recently, have been declared a change of political model, a reboot of the state and, naturally, again through a change in the Constitution. Colleagues from BSP have also repeatedly declared themselves amendments to the Constitution. It is interesting, however, that when all these political speakers, to put it mildly, were given a chance to come up with their constructive proposals, if they do, somehow this did not happen. They did not come up with any proposals and the President with his ready Constitution did not show it, and the riding protests did not show it, and the BSP colleagues did not make their proposal. This comes to show, ladies and gentlemen, only one thing that all this talk here was for political purposes only. There was no debate that we all expected to have, and no public controversy arose. This, ladies and gentlemen, there is no way that all normal thinking people in this country cannot be regarded as hypocrisy. A hypocrisy involving only politicians does not involve society. We at WOLV are banal sounds and surely all of you are tired of repeating it, but we will not stop repeating it, that for us by WOLV, pragmatic actions are the most important. That is why we have participated in giving politicians and all who claim to change the Constitution and our society to launch such a policy, to launch such a procedure, to start the end of this political hypocrisy. But that didn't happen. We hoped that after all, it would rain good, bad, and any other proposals for changes..................and populist, all kinds of things. We were hoping that Volya would finally have the opportunity to read n number of proposals..good, bad, repeat, all kinds of things. They didn't do any... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u74	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u75	...of all of you, ladies and gentlemen, who have been talking over the years about amendments to the Constitution. It became clear that this was another political manifestation of each one, at some point used for some political purposes. There is no way, since this is not the agenda of society, it is not in the priorities of society, but is used only for speech-deception. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, so, honourable Bulgarians, we are putting an end to this debate and from now on, it is right that the whole Bulgarian people are not politicians, because they do not interest me particularly, but that the whole Bulgarian people know that a conversation about a change in the Constitution, a conversation about a change in the political model, a reduction of the number of MPs and all such initiatives, which go through a change in the Constitution alone, is not in the priorities of politicians and if society wants it, it will have to show it in some other way. So, since society is not showing it in any definite way at the moment, we at WOL will not support such a change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u76	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. [[Applause from the Bulgarian Rhodolists.]] - What's the line? Mr. Mirchev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u77	Honourable Members, Madam President! Dear Mr. Hristov, I have a very simple question to ask you, given that Mr. Mareshki is explained to him because he is a pragmatic person, signed the pseudoconstitution project based on the receipt of the corresponding concessions of the sea. On this finding, my question to you is as follows: You want to read proposals, and before that, have you at least bothered to read the pseudoconstitution project? Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u78	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev. Second line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u79	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mirchev, it is very convenient for you to use some suggestions, which are first of all what to call them, I will soften a little: I also supported by signing this bill. What did I get? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] What did I get, Mr. Mirchev? [[Noise and lines.]] Can one of you all here, can anyone...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u80	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u81	...from the Bulgarian people, can anyone come out and tell us what we all received from the will? Look at the back of them all. What did we get?! [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] With what we've done...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u82	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u83	Dear Mr. Mirchev, with what we have done, we have given you a chance to give an alternative to the incompetent proposal, as you call it, to the colleagues who proposed it. Did you give it up? Do you have enough capacity, fellow Members of the BSP, to make a sensible proposal that we can read and support? Do you? So when you make such suggestions, be prepared to be able to protect them. Which one of the Bulgarian citizens believes that Veselin Mareshki can be bought with something like this?! It's ridiculous, Mr. Mirchev!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u84	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Mrs. Nieva, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u85	Madam President, please extend the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u86	Okay. Please extend the group time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u87	Dear fellow importers of this draft decision, have you come to know the opinion and recommendations of the Venice Commission, which, diplomatically speaking, are devastating in this direction? And they are: there is no public debate, there is no dialogue with experts and representatives of civil society and it is not clear what are the reasons behind any constitutional change that you are proposing. The Venice Commission gives an objective reading of what is happening in the country. And civil society and experts agree that the current Constitution corresponds to the needs of society and the public contract. So far you haven't given a clear sign why now, why so quickly, on firefighters, you put this draft decision in place and to tell you that it does not fit the agenda of society. Open your eyes and see: people die in front of hospitals, the economy dies, and we can say that the state is already dying. This is the agenda of society. But I must admit, you have achieved your political goal. It is clear to everyone that you want to squeeze power until regular elections and hold elections as you know it. But citizens have been protesting for 138 days, and rightly so. Do not throw dust in their eyes that you want to and make reforms.. they do not meet the agenda of society. Therefore, we will not support this draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u88	Thank you, dear Mrs. Niva. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u89	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I think some of our colleagues here have tried to have a debate on a rather high level, trying to talk about statehood, about the Constitution, about traditions. But I think that today's debate should be held with a sense of humor, because from the whole road that was walked with this so-called Constitution or Constitutional Project, it became clear that GERB does not actually expect anything serious to happen. By the way, I would suggest that you ask where the Prime Minister is, as we are talking about a Grand National Assembly. In fact, today, colleagues from GERB are voting for or against Boyko Borisov's resignation, as he said that the moment it is decided that there will be a Grand National Assembly, he will resign. I don't know how it is possible to have such a serious discussion and topic without the presence of the Prime Minister, who wants to restart politics, the political system, the state, and at the same time is somewhere else?! Since technology allows, I suggest, if he can't come, put it on the screen maybe from the SUV or from somewhere else, but we should also hear his opinion on these issues. The other reason why we should have more humor to comment on today's item on the agenda is that usually when we need to fill the time and not say anything, the GERB send here to talk Toma Bikov I caught nine minutes and 50 seconds in which nothing came out that should convince us that what GERB is doing today is serious. And the other question, which I think is quite indicative of your attitude towards this draft decision, is that you are pushing it most unexpectedly within the framework of the discussion of the Budget under art. One that started yesterday and will continue shortly. So, by the way, let's push this discussion over the convening of a Grand National Assembly that somehow not understand the back of the measures that the government is taking today to close the state. The idea today is to talk about the measures, not about the shame you brought on yourself by doing Boyko Borisov's will to remain in power. In fact, we can say that in general the path that your project has come is so pathetic that it is a pity that it comes to today's National Assembly meeting at all. It will be rejected, of course, because there is no way to bring this majority together. In just a few words, let me remind you that it first began with confirmation of the Bulgarian proverb that the quick bitch blind gave them birth. You introduced a Constitutional Project, that is, you announced a project that looked like the coursework of an eighth grader rewritten here and there, more dislocated, opposite, which was a definite shame for the author. And the author is neither among us nor in the Council of Ministers, but the facts are facts anyway. Then you introduced a different version, which is also pointless to discuss in substance. Some colleagues have tried, but excuse me, colleagues, there is simply no point in essentially discussing something that is not presented with the idea of discussing essentially it with the idea of beating the ball. Then you submitted this project with signatures to people who haven't even read it. You created a dead-born committee that didn't do anything at all, and good thing it didn't, because it was going to produce a result that we were going to laugh at today. At all, an untenable policy and untenable actions that have led us to this point. I'm done with the fact that, first of all, you have to apologize to the Venice Commission because you have put it into your domestic political and party goals, you have made them discuss a project that has been clear from the very beginning that it was not created in order to see the light of day, you have wasted their time to come up with some criticisms that had actually come out of all the basic people who are dealing with constitutionalism and who said that this project just sucks. You should finally apologize to the Bulgarian citizens because you lost months of Bulgaria. If instead of the Constitutional Project you had submitted the resignation of Boyko Borisov, today there would be another government to cope much more adequately with the challenges faced by both the people and the state today. So we will not support this decision. I suppose you won't support it either, or perhaps from the best man's shame, as they say, you will support it, but you have wasted a lot of time on Bulgaria, you have wasted a lot of time on pointless exercises. But the citizens see it, and very soon they will rule in the elections. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u90	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Mr. Ivanov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u91	Madam President, honourable Members! To me, it was a big surprise when I saw on the agenda the item with the loud title: Draft Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and Draft Decision for the Production of Elections for the Grand National Assembly. Dear colleagues, do you understand what a farce we are looking at today when the state has fallen to its knees as a result of an incompetent government?! Let me just remind you of the genies of this decision and how it came to be. When the state was in a situation where we didn't know how we were going to get out in the event of this virus, the National Assembly voted on a state of emergency. We supported him for one purpose only that you know what to do. Turns out you don't know what to do. Bulgarian citizens gave you an assessment, and since June they have been on the street, including last night. [[GERB lines.]] This thing has appeared to be a lifeline for you. A safety belt which, unfortunately, or fortunately, may have lived just as much as moving a minister from the front seat to the back seat of Mr. Borisov's SUV, transmitted on Today you found a new lifeline, it burst accordingly and became redundant. Dear colleagues, perhaps you didn't need to bring him into the Chamber, to engage today and to have debates on a stillborn project which, unfortunately, made us laugh not only in Bulgaria but throughout Europe. The decision of the Venice Commission made it very clear. This project ate the head of a minister. I don't know how many more people are going to have to die because of a ridiculous story that had only one purpose to secure what the situation of this majority could last until March, as you wish. And whether it happens or not, it's a separate matter. I'm really sorry, Mr. Bikov, who came out here and tried, the rock-man. explain why this project won't work. Mr. Bikov knew it very well from the beginning when this project was submitted. He tried here with half a mouth, at least he tried to explain to us that this thing was wrong at the very beginning. Dear colleagues, this is not a project, this is not a Grand National Assembly you want to do. This is dust in the eyes of Bulgarian citizens to try to explain to them that what lies ahead is joy compared to what could have happened. Yes, but no, dear colleagues! The next rescue belt that comes into place of this one will also burst, and it will very quickly.................................................................................... the bankruptcy of all these measures you are taking. Because the violation of the Constitution in this form, in which here you have tried to do and today for joy will be rejected, is not the only case. You're constantly violating this Constitution that's operating right now, and you don't care. The regime of credentials was introduced 10 years ago, honourable Members. The adoption of this state budget, which lies ahead in the next item, is another proof of the suspension of the current Constitution. And thank God this thing is going to be rejected today. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u92	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President! Today we are discussing not the Constitutional Project, but the Project for the convening of the Grand National Assembly. I see that colleagues have tried very hard to read the Constitutional Project and look for its imperfections. What they had to read was whether it contained grounds for a Grand National Assembly to be called. From then on, this project does not bind the next Grand National Assembly in any way. I'm tired of hearing here how many statements how the current Constitution is some holy cow, and we shouldn't touch it, but just kneel down, beat our foreheads in the ground and exalt it. Let's just say, when was this Constitution created? It was created at the beginning of the democratic transition. Who took it? She was practically accepted by BSP, DPS and some debris from... [[DPS lines: You haven't read.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u94	Colleagues, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u95	... The SDS, which then all of their leaders, the rubble, turned out to be at one point members of the BSP. [[Heckling]] Why did she take it? They accepted it to ensure the long-term survival of the BCP, to make a system that has been preserved and which cannot change radically, which by a third of the vote, even as much as it relied on at that time, at least BSP, will be able to reproduce itself, and a small formation such as the DPS will be able to be a long balance sheeter and participate in various forms of power. [[(DPS lines:) You haven't read! Let's read a little!]] How did they do that? How did they give this power? This partocracy, how did they create it? In fact, the political process through this Constitution has been turned into a political bargaining chip. I'll mention it to my colleagues at the DPS because they resent it and I apologize if I made a factual error. [[Displays from DPS: "Very important error. "]] I will remind the government of Lyuben Berov, created with their mandate.. the government, which created the groups and which practically mobilized the state. This has become possible precisely thanks to the constitutional mechanisms in this Constitution. It was the same with Stanishev's government. The will of the people and the first political power was replaced by political bargaining. It's the truth! What have we achieved as a result of the operation of this Constitution, because for every law there must still be some analysis of its impact? We achieved two million Bulgarians less, the lowest standard of living in the country. [[Heckling]] Of course, from the governance mechanisms laid down in this Constitution, from the impossibility of normal reform. [[Displays from the DPS: "From your management. "]] Our rule lasts a little less than four years. And the government of Vitenov, of Berov, the government of Lukanov, who, if you remember, imposed a moratorium on foreign debt and deprived Bulgaria of funding. The funding from the groups...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u96	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u97	...who were created by BSP and DPS, all this bet, as well as the bankruptcy of the state at Videnov, of course, bet today's low income levels because we just had to catch up too much. And the more democratic constitutions of Poland and the Czech Republic, according to previous speakers, have made these countries a much more prosperous oasis in the heart of Europe. This Constitution also achieved this because I feel that the DPS lacks the theme to marginalise entire ethnic groups in order to be politically used by the DPS and the BSP. [[(Replys from DPS:]] Then other players went in that direction. This Constitution creates unsolvable conflicts between institutions, and we are witnessing such an unsolvable conflict. We have a president who thinks it's more important for him to overthrow the government than fulfill his constitutional obligations. There is no mechanism to resolve the conflict between a government and a president. This Constitution gives no opportunity for reform or at least gives an extremely small opportunity for reform. All attempts to respond to people's wishes for change collide with the status quo built by BSP and DPS. In fact, the only successful attempt at judicial reform took place in 2014, when BSP was about 40 people, and the DPS were willing to support a albeit mutilated version of judicial reform. It's like a story. Why did we from the United People's Assembly support this draft decision to convene a Grand National Assembly? We supported him with many remarks, some of which found reflections in the Project. Firstly, because we must guarantee reform because we believe that society is ripe for change. In fact, we supported this project because thousands of people in the squares wanted a new Constitution and a new public contract. Perhaps the only flaw in this project is that it was proposed by the majority. If it were proposed and the idea was launched by the opposition, it would probably become a flag of both the protests and the opposition here in the Chamber. However, we have set a set of conditions. First of all, for a clear preamble and for a clear place of the unilateral character of the state in it. More than that! We believe that, given the challenges of modern times, as the motives say, given the invading gender ideology and a number of other threats to our national identity, that the state, and through this preamble, are creating an obligation of the state to uphold the national character of our country, our national traditions and values, something that we believe is an upgrade of the preamble written in 1990. We have asked and believe that an important part of the reform must be dealing with the main vice, namely the lack of legitimacy of power because of the huge amount of corporate and bought vote. We believe that the decisions that the new Constitution should give are a mandatory vote and an educational cent. People who can't write their name can't decide the future of the nation against 50 levs, of course. [[(Replying from the DPS:) By voting for you. This is your electorate.]] I know the DPS resents that idea. I know they prefer illiterate people to be well cared for by them, but that's the way it is. That's why we're political opponents with you. [[Heckling]] We want to ensure that the family as an alliance between the man and the woman is even more uniform than it is in the current Constitution precisely because of the efforts of the liberal left to change such natural concepts. Last but not least, we wanted a return to the recruitment service. And one specific request for IMRO was an increase in presidential powers. We're abstracting from the current president. It's a principled position for over 10 years. The President cannot directly elect a figure in the state, be with such maimed powers and not even have the right to challenge, by referendum or by any other means, a vote of no confidence to the government! In fact, we are not just about increasing the presidential powers. We believe that the Presidential Republic is a good form for a country in crisis. Moreover, France, which was said negatively here, managed to emerge from the political crisis, thanks to the constitutional reform of De Gaulle and a large part of the constitutional arrangements he set up after a small reform then continued to act and France is a semi-president republic with strong leadership. Where's our leadership? In order for anything to pass through parliament or be created by the government, there must be political bargaining. That is, political bargaining replaces the will of the people. This is yet another reason to ask for a Grand National Assembly to be convened, not to be satisfied with any palliative amendments to the Constitution. In fact, there is obviously no majority in this House to convene a Grand National Assembly, but the demands in this direction will continue.... will continue because people are dissatisfied with the political class and the mechanisms of interaction between the institutions. In this regard, we of the United patriots continue to stand behind the request to convene a Grand National Assembly and for an entirely new Constitution, which will be a function not of the debate in this Chamber, but of the debate in that Chamber, which will be entrusted with powers and with the legitimate trust of the Bulgarian voters. Thank you. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u98	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u99	Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u100	A line? You don't have time, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u101	You can extend it. You have the opportunity.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u102	We extended it. You have two more minutes. Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u103	Dear Mrs. Karayancheva! Dear Mr. Veselinov, I have heard with interest that one of the proposals you support is an educational center in the Bulgarian Constitution. The project, which is proposed, does not contain such things. This is most likely to be interpreted as IMRO's ideas for a future constitutional structure of the state, but it is not bad to systematize them in some way. Bring them in as a project, if that's your intention. The other is some other kind of debate that I don't want to comment on. Regarding the proposal for an educational price, I would like to tell you that the current Constitution categorically describes compulsory education as a primary one. And instead of becoming an average, you offer an educational center. If education in the Bulgarian state, in the Bulgarian society and in the Bulgarian school is mandatory, the question arises: where do the illiterates come from, Mr. Veselinov? They come from education policy and from the full weakness of the Ministry of Education in this direction. So your ideas are misdirected. Instead of trying to ensure the full attraction of Bulgarian children and their literacy, you place a requirement for the vote of literacy and illiterate. You are doing the opposite at the moment, returning to the 19th century ideas.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u104	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. Second line, Mr. Mitev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u105	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague Veselinov, thank you for perhaps the only meaningful and meaningful speech in this debate that brought the debate back on the subject. Thank you for not listening to fairyton attempts from the National Assembly on the issue of convening the Grand National Assembly. I will not agree with the thesis that you have expressed, of course, correctly on behalf of IMRO. We at NFSB do not believe that it is necessary to move on to a form of a presidential republic. We believe that the republic with parliamentary rule is the right form of governance at this time. Of course, this issue could be discussed if we came to the convening of a Grand National Assembly. However, I believe that in your speech you should emphasise that, in fact, the main question today is whether such a Grand National Assembly should be convened or not. The Constitutional project is only an occasion and practically all requests not from the protest this year, but from the protests in the last 30 years, the issues concerned in many studios of all constitutionalists in Bulgaria, which have published in the specialized editions various issues on which it was proposed to convene a Grand National Assembly in order to allow imperfections of the existing Constitution, can only happen with a change in the basic law, namely by the main founding body, as is the Grand National Assembly. I think you should have been more clear in your speech to pay attention to these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u106	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Is there gonna be a third line? Here you are, Mrs. Niva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u107	Dear Mr. Veselinov, you told us why you would support this draft decision, but you did not say why now. I'd like to remind you of a statistic. We are successfully moving from third to first in mortality in Europe. [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u108	What does that have to do with anything?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u109	It's got something to do We're now 27.3 deaths per 1,000. This is the agenda of society.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u110	What does this have to do with the Constitution?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u111	This is the most important thing right now to preserve the health and life of citizens. [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u112	Thank you, Ms. Niva. Mr. Veselinov, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u113	On the subject of education, it is not true that we have compulsory primary education. A quick reference to the Constitution can make it available to your knowledge that we have compulsory education up to 16 years of age. This, unfortunately, does not lead to any negative consequences. We intend to bind this constitutional obligation to the use of constitutional voting rights. Moreover, we are inclined, within a debate, to agree to the admission to vote after proving literacy and after proving that the person who has failed to fulfil his constitutional obligation to train within 16 years can understand the meaning of the political process and make a normal choice. Forty thousand children have been returned within this management in school because this is a priority of both the United Patriarchs and GERB. Moreover, something that you had created as a door in the field, as they say, social assistance, everyone to get what they want, to turn child benefits into a source of income and to produce children in order to exist, we took the first steps to overcome this process. At the moment, all social benefits are tied to attending school. So yes, we understand the problem and work on its solution. The Parliamentary Republic, Mr. Mitev, is a very nice form for Germany, for countries where there are traditions, responsible political class. Tell me: how can the parliamentary republic work when, for example, the aim of the largest opposition parliamentary group at the moment, in this National Assembly, is to ruin its work, not to register, just to boycott? How could such a parliamentary republic exist? Apparently, he needs more leadership. That's our view. You have, of course, the right to see. Why now? Well, because now people have been found, a large parliamentary group of 121 signatures are needed to submit a project. We would've imported it 15 years ago, but we only had the votes of our 5.6 or as many MPs as they were, so that's why now. A very ugly play with today's situation, very bad, because you were the people who didn't wear masks. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u114	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Any other speeches? Mrs. Atanasova. [[Reply by National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] Oh, not like that, Mr. Svilensky, please! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u115	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I was a little surprised by the parliamentary debate for several reasons. First of all, because you claim that what is this procedure and why now? I would like to point out, and you are probably aware that this is the way for a parliamentary debate and we are not outside parliamentary procedures. When there is a bill, in this case there is a proposal and a draft Decision to convene a Grand National Assembly and a Draft Constitution in accordance with the requirements of the current Constitution, which you are defending and which we stick to and believe we should all abide by because we have sworn in its provisions, this is the way to discuss such a draft decision. Why now? The provisions of the Constitution are also clear, not earlier than two months, not later than five months. That is to say, I also believe that any suggestion should not be made that we are running from a debate that we are trying to save the government, because now the measures to deal with the coronacrisis are on the agenda. Yes, on the agenda are the measures to deal with the coronacrisis and the government is doing its job, and so is the National Operations Headquarters. They're sitting, they've already made decisions, they'll probably announce them if they haven't done it yet. We're different institutions. We have no dispute about this.. that the Council of Ministers and the National Assembly are different institutions and each of these institutions has an agenda? There's an agenda and the presidential institution. And now I would like to remind you, exactly one year ago and one day President Rumen Radev, after signing the Decree for the appointment of Prosecutor General Geshev, called a round table at which he introduced all European ambassadors to his idea of amendments to the Constitution. Then, my dear, we heard no reaction either essentially to the idea or essentially to the changes that were announced a little later at a briefing by the President. Do you remember those ideas that President Radev stood for? Much of these ideas are the demands of civil society, much of these ideas are the demands of protesters. These ideas are also part of the project, which brought GERB, the United patriots, the colleagues independent MPs, colleagues from Volya, and never until now we have found a way, time, resource in a normal parliamentary debate to discuss all these ideas. These ideas are also part of the opinion of the Venice Commission, and contrary to all the views expressed that it is killing out of criticism the project, the Venice Commission expressed a positive opinion on the changes in Chapter Six concerning the judiciary. This must be said if we are to be correct not only to all importers, but also to the Bulgarian citizens, and you know this very well. I'm surprised at one more thing. Today, dear, you have a chance to receive the resignation of Prime Minister Borisov, and very strangely, that it is you who opposes this chance. Do you remember August 14th? It wasn't that long ago. Prime Minister Borisov announced: I propose a new public contract. I suggest a reboot. I propose a debate to convene a Grand National Assembly, I propose a debate and such a solution. And then, when the National Assembly makes such a decision and disbands, I resign at the same time. [[Noise and lines.]] [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u116	Colleagues, can you behave differently? [[(Noise and shouts:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u117	Is it not a precedent, honourable Members, namely you, who insisted for months that Borisov resign, the President insisted that even the National Assembly loosen itself, that today you support the status quo, that you support Borisov's rule?! That's weird. As strange is the statement that today we are looking at the Constitutional Project, that today this majority will also take a decision. Well, let's finally reaffirm once again that the only decision that this National Assembly will make, eventually, is the decision to hold or oppose elections for a Grand National Assembly. You wanted an election, didn't you?! I thought you wanted early elections.! Come on, there's a chance you'll make that decision today. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] This Parliament must be clear that there is no discussion about the draft Constitution that has been proposed. Isn't that what we agree on? That he would discuss Project a future Grand National Assembly. And now maybe a little bit to the point. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Some of you have argued that this project finds none of the answers to public expectations and finds the right moment. Others claim that this project is the existing Constitution with switched seats. If you're so critical of the project, and it's actually a copy of a draft of the current Constitution, how do we respect the current Constitution if it's so bad in your opinion? Those arguments are somehow missing. Otherwise, let us also say a few words about the positive aspects of this project, which perhaps we should have discussed, and not in our view, as importers, but according to the Venice Commission, which you are quoting, but perhaps not in fullness as well. Were we to discuss the subject of the total division of the Supreme Judicial Council of the Judges and the Prosecution College? A step which the Venice Commission considers to be a step forward, so defines it and admires the proposal to continue. Should the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council be removed? So far, we haven't heard about or opposed you since you want to discuss the Constitutional Project and not just the decision to convene a Grand National Assembly. Have these been part of the recommendations of the Venice Commission over the years to remove the plenary of the Supreme Judicial Council? Yeah, and we've got it covered. Are these part of the demands of various civil associations, non-governmental organizations? Yeah, and we've got it covered. Has the Venice Commission given a positive assessment of the creation of new texts in terms of the powers and functions of the two colleagues, the judges and prosecutors? Yeah, and he thinks it's the right step and the right step forward. Does the Venice Commission also give a positive assessment of the proposal regarding the Minister of Justice not to chair the plenary sessions of the Supreme Judicial Council? Yeah, and all the other proposals that are part of the judiciary. Of course, there are also criticisms regarding the Attorney General and we are also ready for this debate, but where are you fellow Members of the opposition? We have not heard your opinion and opinion on all these issues that the project is discussing. [[Noise in the hall. A line from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] I believe that nothing today is beyond the parliamentary debate. This debate was necessary. Whether it was timely or not, everyone can make their own judgment, but it belongs here in plenary, among the parliamentarians, not elsewhere, not outside, not in the square, but here in the Chamber. Unfortunately, your absence from this debate, I think it is detrimental to parliamentaryism, not just to the government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. - What's the line? Mr. Prodanov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u119	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Madam President of the unconventional Commission for a new Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria! Somewhere in your speech you saw correctly that the Council of Ministers and Parliament are different institutions. According to the current Constitution, Madam President of the undisputed Commission, you know what Bulgaria is like? Parliamentary Republic with a clear distinction of authorities. What are the authorities like? Legislative, executive, judicial. Now I will ask you a few questions and if you answer your own questions, you will understand that the troubles of today's Bulgaria are not in the current Constitution. The executive power, the independent executive power, by whom are the decisions taken in this power? From a guy. Unfortunately, in the legislative power, decisions are made by one person - the same person who makes the decisions in the executive power. If we take the judiciary...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u120	Your time, Mr. Prodanov, is over.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u121	...she's similarly influenced by this man. [[The President turns off the microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u122	Thank you, your time is up. [[The speaker speaks with microphones off.]] Thank you, Mr. Prodanov. [[The speaker continues to speak with microphones off.]] Please leave the stands, Mr. Prodanov! Time's up. Thank you. Second line?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u123	You're being very strict today. I could have finished my sentence in ten seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u124	I'm strict today, yeah. [[Noise and lines.]] A hole? There's not gonna be a duvet. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Tzipov, the stands are yours.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u125	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! The current Bulgarian Constitution was adopted at the beginning of the democratic changes, after which six times was amended, honourable MPs. More than half of these amendments relate to the chapter governing the status of the judiciary. In the last 15 years, when constitutional changes have been debated, the focus of attention has always been on proposals for amending and supplementing the Constitution. In fact, the main proposals in the New Constitution Project, which are significantly different from the provisions in force in this chapter, are also related to a serious reform of the judiciary. We propose a division of the Supreme Judicial Council into two councils of judges and the Council of prosecutors and investigators, as we propose two inspectors to these higher councils. This is the debate we've been having for over five years. Five years ago, when amendments to the Constitution were adopted in this part and the Supreme Judicial Council was divided into two colleges, we also received the relevant recommendations from our partners from the European Commission, from the Venice Commission to the Council of Europe. This is what we have heard all these years from all those willing to reform the judiciary, but we did not actually hear what the BSP thinks about Bulgaria. Let us recall how they voted on changes in 2015 to divide the Supreme Judicial Council into two colleges. However, we do not hear BSP's opinion on other significant changes proposed in this project. We hear one thing: this project is not working, this project will be examined by this National Assembly, as Mrs. Atanasova said. Given that you do not state a clear opinion on these important issues, which are put in the focus of public attention, but are only making criticism, what is your opinion really? We're not gonna hear it. We have not heard your opinion on the President's proposal, which, honourable Members, we have never seen. I guess we'll never see it, because it doesn't seem to exist. After more than a year of discussions were held, the Presidential institution could say: we foresee changes in the judiciary chapter or in some other chapters of the current Constitution in order to understand what Bulgarian citizens should expect. Why did we actually propose a draft of a new Constitution? The reason is very simple. To enable the Grand National Assembly to make all important decisions on all matters. The current Constitution is clear "The Grand National Assembly is taking decisions on the issues for which it is addressed. It is because of this current provision that we have proposed to the attention of this National Assembly a decision to convene a Grand National Assembly and a draft new Constitution so that all issues raised and in the focus of public attention can be clearly resolved. We can't help but realize that social and economic relations have changed significantly over the past fifteen years. At the end of the past decade, we were faced with an unprecedented financial and economic crisis from which some of the major sectors in both ours and the European economy cannot say that they have fully recovered. In the middle of this new decade, we were faced with a radically changed security environment -- a terrorist threat and acts, a migrant crisis. Today we are facing an unprecedented health crisis caused by a pandemic. Why do you think that we do not have the right to propose a Draft Constitution to see how to respond to all these challenges we face?! I can't agree to such an opinion. It is for this reason that we are looking at today to follow the procedure in the Constitution, the draft decision to convene a Grand National Assembly. It is for this reason that we are debating this project today. Yeah, a few months ago it became clear that he wouldn't get support. However, honourable Members, we are therefore Members of Parliament, so in this House we must have this debate and meet the expectations that our voters have. [[Noise and lines.]] Perhaps the result of this vote is well known. Surely, in all likelihood, the required constitutional majority will not be gathered, but we will continue, honourable MPs, to owe an answer, because only in such a debate can we respond to all the challenges facing our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u126	Thank you, dear Mr. Tzipov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Please, the Quaestors, invite the Members of the National Assembly to the Chamber to vote on the draft decision to convene the Grand National Assembly. Please also get those colleagues who are remotely involved. Colleagues, I am voting on a draft decision to produce elections for the Grand National Assembly for the adoption of a new Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. The draft decision was read by Mrs. Atanasova. Please, voting mode. Colleagues who vote remotely! Mrs. Alexandrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u127	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u128	Mr. Rashidov? I don't see him. Mr. Kolev!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u129	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u130	Mrs. Dimitrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u131	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u132	Mrs. Vassileva?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u133	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u134	Mr. Popov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u135	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u136	Mr. Shishkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u137	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u138	Mr. Nunev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u139	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u140	Thank you. They voted remotely, seven colleagues. Vote 205 MPs in the hall plus 7 remote-controlled rooms - 212 voted 104 in the hall plus 7 remote-controlled rooms - 111 voted against 93 abstentions 8. Vote 212 MPs: 111, against 93, abstention 8. The project has not been adopted, as it must be voted on at least two thirds of all Members of the National Assembly. Negative vote. After the negative vote, I will give 30 minutes of rest and continue with the State Budget Bill. Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u141	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I voted negatively above all else because, honourable rulers, you have not read La Fontaine. I will remind you of one of his thoughts: When you start something, the end of his thoughts! I voted negatively because this National Assembly is not that it is not legitimate to convene a Grand National Assembly, but there is no minimum credit of confidence needed in society to be able to afford such a responsible act. I voted against it, because what people expect today and are at the centre of public attention is not a new Constitution, but your resignation, the ruling gentlemen! And it will be received. Don't worry, people will ask for it and you have no place to go even if you spend this term to the end, in the next term you will be punished! One more thought of Lafonten will remind you: "And the craftsmanship is best designed, cruelly able to take revenge! " But the most important thing I voted against is the impertinentness and arrogance of the Prime Minister to link his resignation with the adoption of a new Constitution. It's like a wolf putting on sheep's skin and starting to blur. The fact that he is a blunderer, but it is not his amplity and I must tell you that such insolence Bulgarian history does not know! [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u142	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Second negative vote please, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u143	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I guess now I'm just gonna do my negative vote in front of the left side of the room.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u144	And there are also colleagues from GERB in the right part, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u145	There's very little. As you say, the majority is visible sometimes. There was no way I could support such a stillborn project under pressure that people wanted you to leave, and you stuck to power through it. Even a moment ago, however, you have come into your absurdities to this point and in your insolence, and I have said it in the past from this tribune, to say, see that almost today if we support what you have so thought up prematurely, we hardly participate in supporting the status quo. It's a delusion of the entire room, first of all, because there wasn't a single minister here. This is where the entire government was supposed to be. If it were sincere, if the Prime Minister were sincere, he would have come here to carry his resignation, and if he had collected 160 votes, he would have deposited it here with you and then we would have voted on it. So we didn't keep the status quo, the Prime Minister lied! And let this be made clear to the Bulgarian citizens. He was supposed to be here with all of his ministers on string dolls, and then his resignation with you deposited and voted out, but it wouldn't have gone away. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u146	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Will there be a third negative vote? I can't see. Colleagues, take a 30-minute break. At 11:55, we continue our budget. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u147	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. We continue working on the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance with: SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW PROJECT FOR THE STATE BUDGET OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA FOR 2021 I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. We have statements under art. 1. Mrs. Yankova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u148	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take the floor to motivate our group's proposal under art. 1, para. 2, Section II - Costs, row 5. We propose in row 5 "Reservation for unforeseen or urgent costs" the number of.81 100,0 "to be replaced by..881 100,0 "or by 800 million." lv. more. The distribution we offer is as follows: for municipal roads" "100 million. lv.; for the Fund - Sustainable development of the backward regions" "500 million BGN, and for the Fund of VC infrastructure in the small populated areas lv. Why are we making this proposal as our consistent policy in the past four years and for this fourth budget for 2021? Because, honourable colleagues and Mr. Minister, we believe that there are critical disproportions in the country's regional development and it is appropriate that, when a budget is adopted, it solves certain problems. Perhaps all MPs, looking around and walking in their constituencies, know and want to have a targeted sustainable program for the development of the Northwestern, Rhodopes and the backward regions. In his first and second government Borisov wanted one, in the third edition of the government quietly this policy dropped out of sight of the government itself. All this time, BSP believes that political will is needed to conduct a regional policy in full. Here, too, I will quote a Minister and Deputy Minister of Regional Development, who, in the mix with EU funds for the second planning period and with the funds from the budget, adopting the Regional Development Act, said that we in the country have huge regional disproportions. Moreover, in support of this proposal, I would like to share that the funds under the European Union's recovery plan will not come sooner than the middle of next year. The agreement on the third planning period with the European Union is delayed. And it's always in these years that first year governments look for financial instruments to fill out this financial window, this hole with funds. Our proposal is extremely sensible, it is in the context of this: small businesses will be supported, many demographic problems will be solved, opportunities in these parts to create conditions and environment to go investors. You know that most of the questions are such is it a good road, is there water available, is the environment where we can invest? And with the very fund for the development of the backward regions, I believe that there will be opportunities to make a targeted impact on the regions. This is a new European policy that is taking place in many European countries. That is why I think and appeal to you, Members of Parliament, these three proposals that are in one, in a common policy that concern municipal roads, the sustainable development of backward areas, the water infrastructure in small towns, to support them. Here I will share another understanding of myself, which I have proposed and proposed at two national meetings. It is in art. 1, para. 2, Section II - Expenditure under row 5.1 - the means to address the consequences of the disasters - 80 million lv. Once again, I ask you to add 50 million. lv. and it should be for riverbeds in cities and settlements, respectively the Ministry of Finance with the Association of Municipalities to make a standard. You know that all rivers are a building factor and we fall behind in understanding that when the potential of a river flows through a populated area, we have good infrastructure, good quality of the environment. [[GERB's reply: "Search! "]] Yes, I understand that time is running out.. Maybe other people are running out of time, as a whole and our collective body, so it will be a good deed, if you support these proposals, they are for the good of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u149	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Are there any lines? I can't see. We continue with the speeches. Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u150	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! Our proposals in art. 1 were made in the higher education and science sector. We understand that there are many problems in the science sector again. The mantra, that there is no money not only in the last four years, but also from the first management of GERB, concerns a very important direction of activity in the country, which is assessed in words as necessary, especially during crises, but in practice it is destroyed annually. The fact is that the science funds are a hidden picture. Why? Because all expenditure on science is put into the consolidated fiscal programme, i.e. in addition to budget funds, own revenues are calculated, as well as funds from European funds. Despite this magic of numbers, which is done accordingly to show how much money is allocated in this direction, however, the truth is quite different and the conclusion is that research and research in science are at the bottom of state care. The fact is that from 2017 to 2020 the state subsidy for science is 0.12% of gross domestic product. In budget 2021 the funds are 0,14%, and here comes the subsidy to the Bulgarian Academy of Agriculture, the Fund of Science and the funds for science for higher schools. It is available for research in the budget for the amount of 8 million. BGN, which has stood for several years without any change. It's a means of scientific activity in higher schools. Research Fund "Science research" "Science research" "Science research" "Science research" "Science research" "Science research" "Science research" "Science research" "Science research" "Science research" "Science research" "Science research" "Science research" For BAS and the Agricultural Academy, the increase in budget is 10%, respectively 12.2 million. lv. and 3.5 million. BGN 15,7 million in total lv. For higher schools, 65,9 million. BGN, with an increase in salary, for which the government committed the assistant salaries to become BGN 1300. After the calculations of the accounts so made, it is evident that in higher education the additional funds are 17.7 million. BGN, but they include the maintenance and development of the rating system of higher schools, on which the additional payment for the quality of education depends respectively. What do we suggest? For higher schools we offer an increase in the subsidy by 22.6 million. lv. In the science sector "Science" "BAS" and Agricultural Academy, we offer an additional approximately 15 million. lv. Why? In our opinion, no elementary calculations have been made for the fact that in 2021 the minimum wage is increased, that in BAS and Agricultural Academy at this time have an average salary of less than 1000 BGN, with payments for the assistants being of the order of 790 BGN. In what way could assistant salaries become BGN 1300 so that there would be no distribution between higher schools and science in the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and in the Agricultural Academy? As a result, the non-implemented accounts lead us to the conclusion that the funds will be insufficient, the shortage will deepen and, accordingly, the crisis in science, which I dare say is a fact, given the situation in the country, especially with pay, will deepen. This should have been the minimum activity in the Ministry of Finance in the calculation of these costs, but, unfortunately, this has not been done. That is why we propose this correction. But there's another serious problem. A research development strategy was adopted in 2018. The document says that in 2020 the funds for science should be 1,5% of gross domestic product and in 2025. 2 percent. Consider: 1.5% commitment against 0.12%! What are we writing these strategies about, what are we reporting to Brussels that we have a strategy without implementing it? Secondly, the European Union allocates 2,07% of its science budget. Representatives, especially GERB, argue that this budget should not be reduced.. should not be reduced because science and innovation are important.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u151	Time's up. Please complete your statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u152	I'm done, last sentence. I would like to ask: when are you sincere when at European level you defend science and innovation and in Bulgaria you do not finance the system? And therefore the results are clear. The crisis will continue because without science there are no solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u153	Thank you. - What's the line? Mr. Dinkov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u154	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! The total increase in the budget of municipalities for 2021 compared to 2020 is 731 million. lv. more. However, this increase is mainly for the activities delegated by the State, namely education, health and social services and minor to culture and sport. Until now, municipalities have managed to cope with the additional costs of managing the crisis mainly with their own financial resources. As a result, their budgets are in a difficult financial situation. They face significant losses from tax revenue and other forms of income, which are at the same time, and there are substantial increases in costs. At the same time, the increase in municipalities for local activities is negligible. In the budgetary relations between the central budget and the municipalities' budgets, the amount of local activities for 2021 is only 10% of the total amount of 490 million. lv. of 4 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question Non-financing continues for the municipal road network and capital expenditure. Why do we propose to create a fund of Municipal Roads with 100 million. lv.? By the way, the National Association of Municipalities also offers a national programme. The municipal road network is about 19,500 km, as is Republican. Sixty percent of it is in poor condition and in unsatisfactory condition and this is an attestation for the work done so far. The lack of lasting state funding, renewal and rehabilitation is one of the main reasons for the poor condition. Now the activities of the municipal road network are financed mainly by the vehicle tax, but this revenue also supports about 50 000 km of street network in cities and villages, and for the municipal road network.. Unlike the Republican road network, there is also no targeted European funding. In discussing the Tol system, there was a proposal that 20% of the revenues should be allocated to the municipal road network, but this was not realised as funds would be provided by the state budget. We see that such a policy does not happen, and the system does not work in the volume that was envisaged in the government's forecast. The good road connectivity between settlements in a municipality with the municipal center is extremely important because it provides better health care, social services, administrative services and so on. In this regard, the funds for the sustainable development of the backward regions in connection with the demographic crisis are also of particular importance, so the small settlements which were excluded for funding from the European rural development programme. I hope that the proposals we make for the creation of the three funds will be accepted by you. It is essential to create conditions for development and strengthening of financial decentralisation, including by effective use and implementation of the strategy for decentralisation of government and by developing models for reforming the current budgetary and tax system in Bulgaria. It is necessary to update the Law on Local Taxes and Fees, as well as to adopt additional measures to extend the municipal revenue base so that they can successfully and qualitatively fulfil the responsibilities for improving the quality and scope of public services provided at local level and also in emergency situations. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u155	Thank you, Mr. Dinkov. - What's the line? We continue with the speeches. Mrs. Lecheva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u156	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Just an hour ago, the meeting of the Council of Ministers ended, at which were announced the new economic measures to support all those affected by the closure of the business and all those affected inoperative parents who will stay home to watch their children. And because we are in a procedure to discuss the state budget of the country, etc. 1, where expenses are discussed, this is the Minister of Finance. He knows very well and correctly the procedure under which such costs are being made, and since there is a dynamic going on, I would say, an environment, I think it is appropriate to meet today and discuss precisely these specific measures that you propose for all affected Bulgarian citizens by the new anti-epidemic emergency measures. Here is the place to debate these measures in order to protect the Bulgarian citizens, to be sure that they will receive this support in due time and that it will not be received three or four months later, as happened with the first measures that you announced at the first closing of the business. Since we are also a parliamentary republic, where we know, and we are all in favour of these procedures, I think it is appropriate that you now go out, Mr Minister, and declare as a spending part of the budget of the 400 million that will cost so much the measures that you have announced, in that regard. 1. Most of all, explain also the mechanism by which these funds will be received, so that the Bulgarian citizens will be aware by tomorrow how and when they will be helped by what you say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u157	Thank you, Mrs. Lecheva. - What's the line? Line, Mrs. Yankova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u158	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! Dear Mrs. Lecheva, my reply to you is: as we are discussing budget 2021, in the budget for 2021 I have nowhere been able to find that buffer or those funds that will be necessary for what is defined as a view of the government And rather, the question now is: does this financial resource of 400 million mean that we will be updating the budget by the end of December? I tried here to look for it in the budget, I couldn't find it. I suppose you've been doing some thorough reading on these issues, have you found these figures anywhere?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u159	Thank you. Another line? I won't. Mrs. Lecheva?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u160	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Yankova, I think that here the Minister of Finance can best tell us where these funds are and how they are intended to be spent, again, I say again, to be sure, in addition to Bulgarian citizens, to make sure that the procedure is followed with regard to the way the funds of Bulgarian taxpayers are spent.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u161	Thank you. We continue with the speeches. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u162	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! We from the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria will not support our proposed budget because it is a budget that increases the deficit and debt and violates financial stability in the country, it is a budget that puts us in a debt spiral. The draft budget proposes spending not intentionally, chaoticly, a huge amount of money from our taxes, and making debts to pay in the future for things that are either controversial or not solving any long-term problem. The 2021 draft budget has set a huge deficit of almost 5 billion. BGN, at the same time 10% more income is foreseen, that is, we predict that there will be no new closure and a new quarantine. What if there's a new wave of cod and a new lockdown is needed, then what about the deficit? He would really be huge. It is obvious that the large spending is linked to the upcoming elections. Much of the social payments are also temporary and temporary. It is for these reasons that we from BSP for Bulgaria have prepared and tabled our proposals from our alternative budget in every field of economy, social policy, health, education, defence and security, culture and sport. We offer in the field of economy and municipalities grants to small and medium-sized enterprises from all economic sectors ranging from 5 to 10 thousand. lv. The total amount is 300 million. lv.; increase the value of vouchers for food from 60 to 100 BGN; tourist vouchers of a total value of 30 million lv.; capital investments in tourism development at 32 million lv.; targeted financing of the small settlement water infrastructure from 2 to 10 thousand, amounting to a total of 200 million. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. lv. Also a program for development of the Northwestern region; planning, Strandzha-Sakar, Rhodopes and poorly developed mountain and border regions. The amount invested in the budget is 500 million. lv. In the field of social and demographic policy we propose an increase in the one-time aid for mothers students from 2880 to 6500 BGN.; the provision of one-off assistance at the amount of BGN 6500 for each second and third child of parents insured for 24 months back; families with low income will receive assistance of 250 BGN. at the beginning of the school year except for the I and VIII class, which you offer, also for the II, III and IV class. By the age of 14 the medicines for children will be free, for the entire period from I to XII grade, the textbooks will also be free. We have concrete proposals in each of the areas of the budget that colleagues will later explain in detail. Thus, the proposed by BSP budget alternatives offer a more sustainable socio-economic model and not only do they not increase the deficit, but also reduce it by almost 500 million. lv. by removing certain populist budget expenditures of the government. We hope that you will support at least some of our proposals this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u163	Thank you, Mr. Botsev. - What's the line? Any other speeches? Mrs. Nino, here's a statement on behalf of a group.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u164	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! While MPs from the majority diverted attention from the morning with a stillborn and sadly completed attempt to convene a Grand National Assembly, change and adoption of a new Constitution, Borisov's government closed the state without providing care for the people. [[(Comments from GERB: Ae! Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, ……]] Schools, kindergartens, universities, shopping malls, restaurants, people's gatherings are limited to 15 people. Of course, people's health is most important, but this closure had to be accompanied by an economic and social plan. The government has made this closure unprepared for new economic measures to enter into force immediately, at the same time as the closure. Economic entities close on Friday, but no one knows when state aid will come into force for the economy, households and families. In the coming days, this would be discussed with employers, said Prime Minister Borisov today. In the first wave, support for companies was provided after three months. In the words of the employers of the measure 60/40, 8% of the companies in Bulgaria benefited. Today Borisov speaks loudly and promises the help of workers, parents on unpaid leave on a minimum salary, but, honourable MPs Bulgarian citizens, these promises are bare words. Why? They are not in the budget of the current 2020 and in the budget that you are voting for 2021 today, there is neither a lev for the new aid that you are promising generously. That is, the government's promised measures are not provided in the government's budget. So you're fooling people, that means it's still chaos in chaos so far. Yesterday we called, today I will do it for the second time: the ruling majority, the government and the prime minister stop voting on this budget! Bulgarians need support. Everyone needs to feel the care of the state. [[GERB's lines and laughter]] , and the state needs governance with common sense, predictability, calmness and security. If we step on these grounds, if we set ourselves as a target of common sense, care for the people, peace and security in the state, we suggest that we do the following: today we stop the vote on the budget, first. Secondly, the new economic and social measures to help the economy and households to be included in the budget further, because they are not there now and are not financially insured, and then to continue with the vote. The minister of finance is reacting, and he'll probably say they're there because they're going to be transferred from one feather to another. What about the ones you pick up to transfer them to somewhere else? Then they will be left without funding. So once again, we call for reason, and if we want to guarantee the state peace and predictability, and people care, to suspend the vote, to adopt these measures, to secure themselves financially and then to continue, because the moment requires a high responsibility for statesmen. Now it will show who is watching with the horizon the elections in March and for the purpose of personal and party survival, and who is going to move Bulgaria through the crisis with care for the people. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u165	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. You're welcome to join us in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u166	Mr. President, I appeal to you because yesterday the President of the opposition party made a declaration, and the Rules of Procedure do not have the right to make declarations regarding the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u167	We want to stop the vote!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u168	Excuse me?! Yesterday, it was urged not to support the budget of the Health Insurance Fund and is now speaking again on behalf of a parliamentary group on the agenda. I ask you to take this into account and when you, as the host, are in charge of the Assembly, interrupt and remind that a declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group is not made on the agenda. Yesterday you didn't say that as a host, I paid attention, but today we can't allow a second declaration to be made on the agenda. As MP Mrs Cornelia Ninova knows very well the Rules and abuses her rights. I appeal to you to lead, as we are currently looking at the most important law of the state, to respect it strictly and to sanction all speeches that are not on the agenda and on the point. Secondly, consider time, as it is speculated with a line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u169	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. You're absolutely right, there were elements like this, but I deliberately ignored Mrs. Ninova. She is not from yesterday in the National Assembly and understands very well. Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u170	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Chairman, my procedure is to guide you. You were absolutely right and Mr. Ivanov has absolutely no grounds to protest. You followed the Rules by not interrupting the chair of the parliamentary group today and yesterday, although Mrs Karayancheva led the meeting, as the declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group is not on the agenda, however common things may be. When there is an item on the agenda of the budget of the state, this includes everything, colleagues, from your entry into parliament to your exit, after a 4-year term.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u171	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u172	So there is no way: everyone who stands here speaks on the subject budget and politics, because you are politicians, if you do not understand.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u173	I get it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u174	Mr. Chairman, you were absolutely right. Thank you, on behalf of the parliamentary group, for following the Rules of Procedure and for not interrupting the chair of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u175	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Are there any other statements? If there are no other speeches, I will close the debate and move on to the vote. Members of the National Assembly, please take your seats in the Chamber. First, I will put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the Law. I'll wait for you, I see there's some difficulty in voting. [[Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria ":" Your time has run out. "]] When there are difficulties in voting, it is practice to wait for all MPs. He's got his hands up, Mr. Prodanov, and it's very common for your parliamentary group. Put on a mask, Mr. Stoinev. Thank you. Vote 156 MPs: 91, against 54, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal by the MP Yordan Yordanov and a group of MPs. They voted 154 MPs: 15 against 100, abstention 39. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal by MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. Vote 159 MPs: 11 against 74, abstention 74. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs. They voted 158 MPs: 63, against 72, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Dora Yankova. Vote 158 MPs: 64 against 71, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version for the text of art. 1 proposed by the Commission. They voted 163 MPs: for 94, against 69, there is no abstention. The motion is accepted. Please continue, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u176	Art. 1 (1) (a) In addition, there have been no proposals made. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 2 "5" inclusive.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u177	Are there any speeches, colleagues? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 2, 3, 4 and 5. Vote 152 MPs: for 93, against 59, no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u178	Under art. 6 has a proposal of the MP Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 6: Art. 6. (1) It shall adopt the budget of the Council of Ministers for 2021, as followed by the table attached by the Report. (2) Confirms the allocation of the costs under para. 1 by policy areas and budget programmes, as follows by the table attached in the Report. (3) Confirms the maximum amounts of the expenditure commitments that may be made in 2021 and the maximum amounts of the new expenditure obligations that may be accumulated in 2021 by the Council of Ministers, as followed by the table attached by the Report. (4) Approves the allocation of the State subsidy for religions registered under the Religious Law, as follows under the attached table. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 7. The Commission also supports the text of the importer for art. 9. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 9. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u179	Statements, coworkers? I can't see. I shall put to the vote, first, the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 6 as well as the text of the importer for Articles 7, 8, 9 and 10. They voted 146 MPs: 96 against 50 abstentions. The texts put to the vote have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u180	Under art. 11 there is a proposal of the MP Milen Mihov: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 11 the following amendments shall be made: "1." in para 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1 in the (a) of row 7, item II, the number b) of row 8, t. 1, the number s. 1 477 820.7s. is replaced by s.1 508 680.7s. (c) of row 19, item III, the number (d) in row 20, t. 1, 616 695.3 is replaced by 1 647 555.3 is replaced by 1 647 555.3. 2. in para. 2 in the table: (a) in row 1, the number (b) of row 3 "All' is replaced by "1 625 116,7' by "1 655 976,7'; 3. in para. 3 in the table the numbers The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u181	Statements? I can't see. I will put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Milen Mihov. Vote 138 MPs: 15 against 60 abstention 63. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 11. They voted 136 MPs: 90 against 46 abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u182	Under art. 12 has a proposal of the MP Ivan Valentinov Ivanov and a group of MPs: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12, para. 1 in The following amendments shall be made: "1." In line two. The cost of the number..1 872 2. Row I.1. The number of staff is seven35 836,4 and is replaced by stwo 197 836,4. 3. Row two. Capital costs and row 2.1. The acquisition of fixed assets and the major repair of the number. "14 947,0 " is replaced by "64 The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Mustafa Sali Karadayi and a group of MPs: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12 the following changes are made: ..1.1. In para. 1 Section II Costs and Section III Budgetary Relations (transfers) shall be made as follows: - in para. 1 Section II, the number 1 872 773,4 is replaced by the number 2 319 940,7; - in para. 1 Section II row 1. the number 1 857 926,4 is replaced by the number 2 244 993,7; - in para. 1 Section II row 1.1. the number 1 735 836.4 is replaced by the number 2 083 003; - in para. 1 Section II row 2. the number 14 947,0 is replaced by the number 74 947,0; - in para. 1, Section III, the number 1 640 773,4 is replaced by the number 2 087 940,7; - in para. 1 Section III row 1. the number 1 651 066,4 is replaced by the number 2 098 233,68 1.2. In para. 2: - the number 1 092 263,7 is replaced by the number 1 539 431; - line Everything - the number 1 872 773,4 is replaced by the number 2 319 940.7. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 12: Art. 12. (1) It shall adopt the budget of the Ministry of Interior for 2021 as follows under the attached table. (2) Confirms the allocation of the costs under para. 1 by policy areas and budget programmes, as follows by the attached table. (3) Confirms the maximum amounts of expenditure commitments that may be made in 2021 and the maximum amounts of new expenditure obligations that may be accumulated in 2021 by the Ministry of Interior, as follows in the attached table.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u183	Statements? Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u184	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! When we had a debate here at first reading regarding the State Budget Act, I informed you that what we are voting on at first reading is not the real version of the State Budget Act. Another question is whether we should deal with it at all today, because this budget is not the budget of the state, this is the budget of survival, the budget of citizens being lied to. Let's talk, in particular, about the budget of the Ministry of Interior. I am not even sure that what we are looking at here is once again the real budget, which, by voting today on your proposals, will remain. Just to remind you that last year we made specific proposals concerning the remuneration of the employees of the Ministry of Interior, which you rejected, and only a month after that the Prime Minister with a decision of the Council of Ministers introduced BSP's proposals in implementation. We're in the same situation right now. The employees of the Ministry of Interior are protesting because of workload, protesting that you treated them unfairly with regard to wage increases, giving them 15%. They say: no, that's not enough, we want you to align us with all the other employees that you increased wages by 30% in August and these people are right! The proposal we have made is really that this increase will become 30%, because these people who care about you are looking out for you, for your peace and at this moment they are watching out for you below. [[GERB lines.]] Yes, they've been built outside since morning to keep your comfort so that Bulgarian citizens wouldn't... [[GERB lines.]] No, they're protecting you! I went out, I went to the protesters. They're protecting you because they want to lynch you, dear colleagues. So give this attitude to the employees of the Ministry of Interior and increase their salaries by 30%. Another question is that you are pouring money into a system that is unreformed. Every year we increase this budget and every year there is nothing to see, but nothing! People said it, even the Commission came from the unions and said: You give money that is not visible. You claim that money comes in on European projects, but they are not visible. The capital expenditure of the Ministry of Interior has not moved in four years, the same is 14 million. lv. People said: we can't repair our fire trucks, colleagues, you buy them for us, and after two months they break, even warranty service them, there's nothing to repair them with. We've offered you 50 million extra, at least have something to work with, something to change their tires, change their oils. Do you understand?! You can't work in this environment! So, colleagues, if you have any sense, if you understand, if you want to show respect for those people who are protecting you last night, tonight, they will protect you, raise their salaries by 30% as they want, because it will still be as it happened last year. In a month's time, the Prime Minister, with a decision of the Council of Ministers, will say: yes, BSP are right and we will make them 30% above. Why are you being stubborn now?! The smartest way is this. We are looking at the budget today, we are voting on our proposal - people are pleased, and you are pleased. They will keep you happy and you will be happy to help them. Now what?! You will go outside and what you will say to them: colleagues, we do not respect your work..... that you keep us here, that you do not want to allow citizens to express their attitude towards us.... we will give you 15%, which are extremely insufficient. That's not enough! And you will understand this thing very soon, if you do not do it or you will force them to do it when the Prime Minister pushes you, or we will give it to them after you fall out of power. It's the truth! You better do it now, because otherwise the attitude that you are showing here to the Ministry of Interior system is extremely negative. After all, neither the Minister of the Interior can see here to express his attitude, I hope the Minister of Finance will say. I'm not mistaken, I'm telling you the facts from last year. We suggested something.. you rejected it, after only a month the same thing happened that we proposed, so in this situation we will also be right, colleagues. Don't be stubborn!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u185	Thank you. Are there lines? I can't see.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u186	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u187	There's a procedure before that, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u188	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am making a procedure for extending the time of today's plenary session to 6:00 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u189	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. I'll put the motion to the vote. They voted 121 MPs: for 76, against 27, abstention 18. The motion is accepted. Ms. Niva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u190	Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, we will not support the budget of the Ministry of Interior. How can we support it when we see the numbers on the feathers? Operating costs the same, insufficient, acquisition of capital goods the same, insufficient, wages the insufficient. Well, police officers, who have a major commitment to take care of domestic security and law enforcement, receive extremely insufficient wages. It is fair that their demands are increased by 30% and we are behind their demands. Now you tried to resist their demands as a bargaining chip with the demands of mothers and children. It's extremely incorrect this behavior. Well, have you talked to the regular policemen about what uniforms they wear and how they buy their own shoes and clothes? Even when the budget was being examined in the Commission, their organisations were not heard. I can point out the opinion of the Firefighter Association, which is against the figures set in this budget. We are therefore firmly behind the police's demands and will not support the budget of the Ministry of Interior in this form.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u191	Thank you, Ms. Niva. Are there lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I will put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal to the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. [[Replications and particulars.]] Cancel the vote. [[Definitions.]] I will put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Ivan Valentinov and a group of MPs. Vote 126 MPs: 44, against 71, abstention 11. The offer is not accepted. I now put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. Vote 91 MPs: 11 against 69, abstention 11. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for art. 12. They voted 124 MPs: for 84, against 40, abstentions are not. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u192	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art.13.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u193	Are there any speeches? I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 13. Vote 118 MPs: 81 against 36, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u194	Proposal of MP Georgi Svilenski and group of MPs. In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 14 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in row II. The cost of the number?2 186 407,4? is replaced by?1 906,407,4?. (b) in row 1. Current expenditures the number "supplied 2 174 287,4' is replaced by "supplied 1 894 287,4'. (c) of row III. "Budget relationships (Transfers) " (+/-) the number (d) of row 1. Budgetary statement with the central budget (+/-) the number?2 156 007,4..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2. In para. 2: (a) in row 5. Social inclusion policy the number b) in line All: the number The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Dora Yankova and a group of MPs. In art.14, para. 2, Row 8: shall be created in the table. It's 8 o'clock. Policy on protection against domestic violence. Support and management of crisis centers and creation of conditions for the disclosure of new 3 000,0 The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 14, para. 1 and para. 2 the following changes are made: 2.1. In para. 1 Section II is created a new row 1. - In Al. 1 Section II, row 1.2 "Subsidies and other current transfers to non-profit corporate entities' is replaced by the number - In Al. 1 Section II, row 1.2. The number of the current transfers and the number of other current transfers shall be replaced by the number of the number of the current transfers. - In Al. 1, Section II, row 1, the number - In Al. 1 Section II, row "Costs' is replaced by the number "Costs'. - In Al. 1 Section III, row 1. the number - In Al. 1 Section III, row "Budget relationships' (Transfers) - (+/-) == sync, corrected by elderman == 2.2. In para. 2, Section III, row 6, the number..1 078,20........................................................................................... In para. 2, Section III, row The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Kirilova Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Alexander Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 14: Art. 14. (1) adopt the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for 2021 as follows: on the attached table. (2) Confirms the allocation of the costs under para. 1 by policy areas and budget programmes as follows: under the attached table. (3) Confirms the maximum amounts of expenditure commitments that may be made in 2021 and the maximum amounts of new expenditure obligations that may be accumulated in 2021 by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, as follows: on the attached table. (4) Confirms expenditure on current transfers, benefits and aid to households of up to 47 million. lv. for the payment of the annual financial support under art. 64..........................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u195	I'm opening the debate. You have the floor, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u196	Mr. Chairman, Madam President of the National Assembly, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! I want to draw your attention to art. 14, para. 2 to create a new order of eight policy in the area of protection against domestic violence, maintenance and management of crisis centres, and to create conditions for the detection of new ones. About a month ago, honourable Members, here in the National Assembly I addressed the President of Parliament and to all of you to complete the amendment to the Law on Domestic Violence. Then the Speaker of Parliament gave us a line of conduct to gather together. We have gathered a working group: the President of the Legal Commission with the participation of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, real and with the consultations of the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy and so far, we have been unable to do anything. Dear colleagues, it may not be a coincidence that today coincides with 25 November is the International Day for Combating Violence against Women. There are several speeches by the official Bulgarian institutions of the Ombudsman and today the deputy ombudsman. During the emergency situation the domestic violence in Bulgaria increased. Then we have an increase precisely again in the number compared to last year's domestic violence victims. Further measures are to be taken, which will be extremely serious.. families will again be tested and will be together again. This debate is going again in the European Union between all political families. I also addressed the Minister of Finance, when the Law was commented, then the other Minister of Finance had written that there was no financial resources. The Ombudsman of Bulgaria says that in 18 district cities there are no crisis centres for protection against domestic violence. And two years ago, and now I'm going to say: now the mayors of municipalities are about to decide on their budgets and, naturally, decide on a building fund, and we are going to give up to three million resources. Those who are more flexible and more active, God forbid the next year there will be active mayors and at least in the district cities to start building such centers. Therefore, I believe that today there are opportunities for female solidarity, men are tolerant, and I think that the whole Bulgarian Parliament in this issue is tolerant to women That is why we have made this proposal together with my fellow Members. Again, I appeal to you, Madam President of the Forty-fourth Bulgarian Parliament, let us give support to women. This is a very scary thing for no one to do, and we have how, in our hands today, to do this vote, this support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u197	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u198	Mr. Chairman, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I heard what my colleague Dora Yankova said. I agree with her, but in her statement she neglected to say that these crisis centers for domestic violence entered our portfolio committee, these crisis centers in many places in Bulgaria, such as on the Black Sea, it turns out that there are only two of them and they represent, notice, two apartments. Bulgaria cannot reach such a situation the crisis centres for domestic violence in a region such as the Black Sea are only two apartments. We specifically asked back then. We would therefore support any sensible proposal that would lead and would lead the fight against domestic violence to a successful end. But agree, I think that there is no one in this House of any different opinion that the Bulgarian state must urgently take measures in this direction to protect women mostly from domestic violence, of course, to be able to provide those in need such crisis centres. This turned out to be a big problem, at least I got that impression in the Commission. Thank you. That's what you missed to say, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u199	Thank you. Second line? Ms. Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u200	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! Dear Mrs. Yankova, as you pointed out, I am also very much working in this direction and I am grateful that you have brought this up. Indeed, in the fight against domestic violence, we must all participate, and very actively. I also call on the mayors and the National Association of Municipalities to be active, because the aid of the state, yes, it can be expressed in financial terms or in a building fund, but you know that these protected houses should not be in the center of the city, but in places where they are difficult to find. I am in favour of your proposal and I would like to say that I am going to vote for it, because indeed this battle that we are fighting, especially today, is very symbolic and it is our society's duty to protect those women who are subjected to domestic violence, even more so, as you said, in this pandemic, now that they are home 24 hours, we must be empathetic. But municipalities must also be very active. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u201	Thank you, Mrs. Karayancheva. Third line? A hole, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u202	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. President of the National Assembly, Dear Ministers! In fact, we're looking for that money so that the mayors can repair, set up the premises that are needed, and decorate them. Under the Law on Domestic Violence and under the Law on Social Services, this means standard and opportunities for people who can serve and then support this whole process. Therefore, Madam President of the National Assembly, I thank you for expressing your personal will, I hope, and the other members of all parliamentary groups. In fact, today, on this 25 November, it is normal for the Bulgarian Parliament to make one sign to women. It's about the mayors. There are four Bulgarian mayors who with the funds of the state budget have made such centers. One Bulgarian mayor with his means, i.e. with taxpayers' funds and with the funds of the municipality, which he represents and the rest are from the non-governmental sector. And if anyone's been watching the TV shows last week, here in Sofia, one of the centers is already facing closure. Mrs. Fandakova was testing how she would react to this. That's why I think we can ask the Minister of Finance for 3 million. lv. For possible 18 centers of domestic violence, and I know they won't spend. Because it will be according to the activity of the municipal council, the mayor and then the social services, as standard options. Today there is a way for the National Assembly to give a sign. Yes, the Istanbul Convention is contrary to our Constitution, but these problems in our society stand. If we stand for 3 million and we don't want to take one step, you heard the case in Sandanski this week! If it's true that the woman was getting violent, where could she have gone?! She went and told her father something, he didn't believe it. If there is no public centre in which it can go and receive legal, psychological and other assistance, we have no sensitivity to this problem. That's why I'm calling you one more time. The problem isn't political, let's not politicize it, but let's solve it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u203	Thank you. Statements? Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u204	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Ministers! I hope that this House will wake up and reflect on this issue, because not only is today 25 November and is the International Day against Violence against Women, but also statistics in recent months show that only in the first months of the emergency situation the victims of domestic violence are 8 women. The signals for a month only on the phone line that is supported are over 370. Unfortunately, the statistics are sad in this extremely complicated emergency situation that we are in right now, but allow me to read a few words from women who have been victims of violence in recent weeks: "For us women who have been subjected to domestic violence and psychological harassment, measures related to forced closure are more than exceptional. We are locked up indefinitely with our bullies, isolated from other people and from the resources that can help us deal with this. There are no crisis centers in 15 district cities. If we open the statistics, we'll see that it's not even clear how many crisis centers there are, are there 13 are there really 8?! Two years from our parliamentary group, we ask questions to the Interior Minister about the victims of domestic violence. And you know what answers we get? Unfortunately, there is no automated and information system to process data on victims of violence. We made small feet in this Parliament in February 2019 and actually incriminated some of the members of domestic violence crimes. That's it! But I will return you a year back in February 2018, when our parliamentary group tabled a draft amendment to the Law on Protection against Domestic Violence and one of the main ones we are protecting is the creation of crisis centres in the 28 district cities. In his answers, the Interior Minister replied in the summer of 2019 that there is a working group that will propose amendments to the Law on Protection against Domestic Violence and it belongs to the troupes. Working groups, groups, but to this day no crisis centers?! [[Laughter, excitement.]] We're talking $3 million. BGN, which are necessary for mayors in the respective district cities to create such crisis centers and then become a social service and become state delegated activity. It is important to take the first step. It is important here in the National Assembly today and now to make a decision and next year to tell all those Bulgarian women who are at such risk and harassment that they will be protected in these crisis centers. Do you know in Sofia how many people can now benefit from the crisis centre service? Eight men for the whole of Sofia district! Is that normal? There's one more thing I want to tell you. At the beginning of March, the Committee on Women's Rights to the UN insisted that the Bulgarian state spend more money on crisis centres. We call on you today and now, on today's date "November 25," let us take this step for all victims of domestic violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u205	Thank you. Are there any lines? I won't. Statements? Mrs. Sidorova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u206	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mrs. Karayancheva, Dear Minister, Dear Ladies and Gentlemen of the National Assembly! A very quiet pandemic has been roaming our country for years, and this is the pandemic of domestic violence. And, as the colleagues who spoke before me said, in recent months, the size of this pandemic has become frightening. Eight women died in the first six months of domestic violence. These women could not seek help and had nowhere to seek help. Unfortunately, today the state is absent from this problem. There are topics that need to unite us, and I am convinced that today the subject of eliminating violence against women will unite us and together we will vote on this 3 million. BGN needed to start solving this huge problem. Because the real problem is huge, the tragedy of a woman is a tragedy of the whole society. Can you imagine how she lives in fear and horror, and after two weeks of being locked up at home with her rapist, since she has no one else to call, she has nowhere to go? When he gets out, he stays on the street. I think 3 million. lv. for this huge budget is not a lot of money, but these are saved lives and saved women. The budget of a country is the policy of the state, expressed in numbers. With what we propose, we propose that the state show care, show responsible attitude and show that really the lives of women and victims of violence are important. I believe that today, with your voice, you will also show your attitude. What does the report of special rapporteur Dubravka Simonovic, UN special rapporteur on violence against women, say? In June she does her research in Bulgaria and says that the centers are extremely insufficient, that the policies made by the state are extremely insufficient and that Bulgaria is at one of the high levels of domestic violence. Active policies and active measures should be taken to prevent Bulgaria from leading this disgraceful ranking. I hope that the numbers that I will read to you now will awaken in you your attitude to this huge problem and indeed by voting you will show your will to solve it. In 2016, the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 22 women died due to domestic violence; 2017 they were 27; 2018. " 33; 2019 25 lost lives because there was no one to turn to! The vote's coming up. Think about these women and really support our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u207	Thank you, Mrs. Sidorova. - What's the line? I can't see. We continue with the speeches. Guys, are there any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs. They voted 122 MPs: 42, against 8, abstention 72. The offer is not accepted. Show the vote in groups. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Dora Yankova and a group of MPs. They voted 133 MPs: 58, against 4, abstention 71. The offer is not accepted. Revoting procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u208	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm asking for a re-voting procedure. I really hope for your solidarity, both your mind and your hearts. Support our offer. Bulgarian women deserve it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u209	I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Dora Yankova. Vote 139 MPs: 59 against 4, abstention 76. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal I will put to the vote is the unsupported proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. They voted 122 MPs: 11 against 52, abstention 59. The offer is not accepted. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u210	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, I ask that we do a re-vote procedure and support the proposal that you may have missed, but this is the platform, which we assume our responsibility as an institution and bring the state into this so important work, it takes its responsibility.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u211	You don't have to argue, Mr. Letifov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u212	I therefore ask you to rethink and support our proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u213	Once again, I will put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi. They voted 125 MPs: 12, against 71, abstention 42. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 14. They voted 130 MPs: 86, against 43, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u214	Under art. 15 has a proposal of the MP Georgi Svilenski and group: The following amendments and additions shall be made in Art. 15: 1. In para. 1: (a) in row II. The cost of the number....783 982.0...is replaced by.832 982.0. (b) in row 1. The number is 747 126,6 "Current costs" is replaced by "Current expenses" 747 126,6 "Current expenses" is replaced by "Current expenses" 747 126,6 "Current expenses" is replaced by "Current expenses" 747 126,6 (c) of row 2. "Capital costs' is replaced by "41 855,4" by the number "Capital costs'. (d) of row 2.1. "Acquirement of fixed assets and major repairs" the number is replaced by (e) in row III. The value of the product shall be equal to or greater than the value of the product. (f) of row 1. The figure of the budget is replaced by the amount of the budget allocated to the budget of the Member State concerned. 2. In para. 2: (a) of row 1. "Politicals in the field of promotion, prevention and control of public health' is replaced by "149 455,3'. b) in row 2. The number of the diagnosis and treatment policy is supposed to.572 225.1 " is replaced by .582 225.1. (c) of row 3. "Policy in the field of medicinal products and medical devices' is replaced by "41 133,1'. (d) a new row shall be created 5. "Fond" "Protected medical institutions" "30 000,0. " (e) in line All: the number....783 982.0.. is replaced by..832 The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Dora Ilieva Yankova: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15, para. 1 shall be created row 2.3.: supposed to Air medical transport? acquisition of two medical helicopters for medical emergencies and crises completed with the necessary medical equipment, electronic communication, navigation and management systems 25 000, 0. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 15.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u215	Thank you. Statements? Mr. Mihailov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u216	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Ministry of Health is an institution which is called upon to coordinate the entire strategy in the field of health policy. And in this sense, investments in this ministry and its budget represent a mirror of how the state sees the solution of the main health policy problems, even though the vast majority of the health care costs fall to the National Health Insurance Fund. In this sense, our proposals are directed in several main directions and, first of all, I would pay attention to capital expenditure in order to acquire fixed tangible assets. Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, you know that there are district hospitals that we have been asking questions about for years now, from the very beginning of this National Assembly, such as the Yambol Hospital, if you remember, we are constantly asking questions to the Minister of Health, but the problem has not been resolved until now. The second, much bigger question, we see no reflection here in it, is solving the problem of building, financing this construction, the National Pediatric Hospital. The problem was posed by a group of pediatricians over two years ago. We are still hesitant as a state, as an institution National Assembly and a practical solution to start action on this issue has not been implemented. These are also our arguments in the "Capital costs".... to increase the figure. [[Noise.]] With regard to disease prevention and control, the main part of this year's main burden will be related to the vaccines to be purchased for vaccination of the target groups for COVID-19. But you should keep in mind, honourable Members, that there are many other screening programs. I see here my colleague associate associate Ivanov, who is one of the supporters of one of these programs, and we also believe that these screening programs for solving problems in socially significant diseases, such as oncology, should be resolved in the new year. On this issue there were many round tables, there were many gatherings, but, unfortunately, this is not reflected in this figure and therefore is our proposal for an increase. [[Noise.]] With regard to diagnostics and treatment, I would like to draw your attention to what was also being said about.. there was a round table in parliament, the treatment and prevention of mental disorders. You see, the psychological stress of the nation is very great. Already the first data for a sharp increase in suicide attempts and suicide attempts on the territory of the country, on stress in the population. And this program, which is a global program for prevention, control and treatment of mental illness, is still at an extremely unsatisfactory level in Bulgaria and we therefore believe that in this area the increase in the figure should be directed precisely in this direction. [[Noise.]] Last but not least, Mr. President and honourable Members, our proposal for the establishment of a Fund..Protected hospitals... is related to what you all know as representatives of different districts in the country........ what is the state of a number of municipal hospitals. I'm not saying the districts are in color, but the municipal hospitals are in very serious material condition. The municipalities are unable to finance either the repairs or their maintenance as they are currently operating, and it is, I do not want to mention it in the face of the entire nation, but in many hospitals it is too serious. [[Noise.]] We therefore hold on to these proposals and believe that they can be fully supported by the entire House. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u217	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. - What's the line? I can't see. Procedure, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u218	Dear Mr. Chairman, I am taking this procedure in the manner of conduct. While we've been praising you for doing your job, you're not interrupting the chairman, I see you're missing out on things right now, and this disrespect that's manifesting here to talking colleagues of ministers and colleagues of ours, I don't know, is reception taking place here at the Council of Ministers right now? But do something, make a comment, because a colleague has just been talking about important issues that affect healthcare, no one is listening to him. Colleague members are coming, if you need a coffee order them, so that the meeting can go easier, so introduce some order in the room. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u219	Thank you. We continue with the speeches. Mrs. Yankova. [[Noise and lines.]] Mrs. Yankova, I gave you the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u220	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers! My proposal may seem unconventional or inappropriate to you, but my proposal is the Bulgarian state, the parliament to decide on air medical transport. To acquire two medical helicopters for medical emergencies and crises which are completed with the necessary medical equipment, electronic communication, navigation and management systems. [[Noise and lines.]] It must be funny for some, but if you live in the Rhodopes and you have to come to the capital to get medical help that isn't there, that's four hours minimum. If you have to have a bottle of oxygen, it has to last about five hours and if there is a car accident along the way or the road is stopped or repaired, that is, you can't make a move on a person. Surely, for those who live in Silistra and elsewhere, these are extremely difficult questions. Even under the conditions of COVID, the Prime Minister cannot, in my opinion, give himself the helicopter, because he has to drive infected people if they are sick. I saw, unfortunately, the Minister of Health's presence in an old helicopter when there was a crash in Yambol. We had a case in Smolyan where I looked for the Deputy Minister of Health to ask: is there a helicopter state? He said he wouldn't. I want to tell you, colleagues, we did a study then, absolutely all the wealthier people in Bulgaria at the moment either have sold their helicopters or they are outside Bulgaria. And that leaves one military man on special notice, and nothing more. That's why my address is the minister of finance has been in health care, knows all this, yes, I know, you will say: we are about to purchase through the Operational Program. When, I don't think, ever?! Let the Bulgarian state at this time of trial protect the Bulgarian citizens. Two helicopters will not be a problem, all the more so when there are difficulties and when there are disasters, not only for medical purposes, civil protection could also take them into management and management. Therefore, I think that my proposal is serious, support it and you will not be wrong about this is once again an attitude towards Bulgarian citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u221	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Timchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u222	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, dear colleagues! Since the beginning of this governance, you, the ruling and majority, have said that healthcare is a top priority of your governance. The second day we debate two basic laws that concern the health care of Bulgaria in the absence of the Minister of Health. We also have questions for the Minister of Health, other than to vote for him here, the budgets that will ensure that he remains in the ministerial post. Since the beginning of your term of office, honourable rulers, you have said that one of the priorities in healthcare is psychiatric assistance and you will bring it to the end of the term. Here, in this budget we propose 5 million to increase capital expenditure for psychiatric aid and to solve the problems of at least one share of healthcare in Bulgaria. You refused! Which of the priorities in health care will this budget decide at all? Not one! What will happen to hospitals that are in the remote regions of the country? We offer you to set up a 30 million fund. BGN to ensure the existence of these hospitals, which now in the conditions of the Kovid pandemic proved particularly important. What problem of emergency care will this budget solve? Is it the old system on phone 112, or the lack of the motor park that is needed to carry out the activities of emergency aid?! Dear Minister of Finance, along with the Minister of Health, I invite you to make a round with an ambulance, a brand new so-called renomobile, not on the highways of Bulgaria, but around Sofia's emergency assistance. We will stand by and watch, and we will see all the health problems in Bulgaria, in the broken communication between the outpatient, emergency and hospital care. What will happen to civil servants who are now on line one, the so-called sanitary inspectors from the system, and they are from the budget of the Ministry of Health? Will they receive by the end of this quarter the promised 1000 BGN, which receive them quarterly; will they need an update of the current budget in order to be paid these funds; and with the new budget what will happen to these civil servants who, in addition to fulfilling the main role in discovering and contacting the coronavirus, are also obliged to carry out control? Not to mention that almost everyone is in pre-retirement and next year many of them will retire. What is the solution to health problems in terms of personnel? It doesn't solve it! Here, we offer you 5 million for postgraduate qualification. And that's our offer you don't accept. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, you have recently become accustomed to the fact that after we are finished here in the Chamber, and the vote of a law is concluded, the news will announce that the MPs have voted on a certain law. You expect the media to announce tonight that the MPs have adopted the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria? I would like to say from this tribune that the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria is not accepting the budget of the Republic for 2021. [[Voices: "Bravo!" and applause from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u223	Thank you, Mr. Timchev. Are there lines? We continue with the speeches. Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u224	Hello, Minister! Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister and Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to raise an issue which I believe is essential in the face of a pandemic. You know that about a month and a half ago in the pharmacies of Bulgaria there was an hysteria due to the lack of enough vaccines for vaccination against influenza viruses that run around the country. At the time, that question was not resolved. An average year in Bulgaria is purchased by the Ministry of Health about 120 thousand vaccines for all diseases, which approximately reached the period before the pandemic. Now it has been said that this number will be increased to 180 thousand vaccines. We believe that they are insufficient. In this regard, we have proposed to increase the number of vaccines enough so that they can reach all the people in Bulgaria who want to be vaccinated. About ten days ago, I hope I am not mistaken, a statement was made by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria that Bulgaria plans to purchase 13 million vaccines from different companies worth between 300 and 500 million. lv. Those between 300 and 500 million. lv. represent about half the budget of the Ministry of Health, which should normally pay them. We agree with such a proposal if it is justified. In the budget review, however, I personally and my colleagues, who I asked to help me, found nowhere else a line to tell where the between 300 and 500 million would be provided. lv. Apparently, he's not in the planned budget of the Ministry of Health. My question to the Minister of Finance, which is in the Chamber, is: is this and where will this very large amount be provided for the budget of the Ministry of Health and, in particular, the state budget of our country? How will the amount of 13 million vaccines be justified if the population of Bulgaria is about 5 million and a significant part of it will not be vaccinated? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u225	- What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Mrs. Slavova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u226	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, colleagues! For another year we see a budget by which Bulgaria is radically different from the other countries in the European Union. A budget in which more than 50% are the means of hospital care and a very small degree of prevention and pre-hospital treatment.Prophylaxis, which is extremely important in the times of pandemic in which we are present; a budget in which children not only in the field of health, but also in all other areas, children are not your priority. You rejected the offer of free medicines to children up to 14 years of age, rejected the proposal to increase child care benefits. In the field of health, no new screening program for children's healthcare. The children's hospital will give money, but the whole question is an absolute batak, with an excuse for the word used. In times of COVID, no one ever thought about what happens to a mother of a disabled child if she accidentally gets sick. Nurses and medical personnel are missing, doctors. You call on students and residents to join the fight on line one. At the same time, you absolutely do nothing in the budget for these residents and for the normal conditions of their specialization. You also reject our proposal for the postgraduate qualification for which we want five million. A few days ago, the minister himself said that, unfortunately, the health system was unreformed. We're pouring money into sand. At the same time, money is not the main one, you have no system to manage healthcare and to fight in the current situation. On October 22, with a period of one month, you had to update the National Action Plan for a pandemic. On June 18th, you unanimously adopted a three-month decision in the Committee on Health to discuss an Action Plan and an organisation of the work and financing of medical institutions in the event of an epidemic situation. You have not presented us either of the two documents to the Commission or to the Chamber. There's chaos! Chaos in your budget! Chaos in the management of the pandemic! Chaos in government! It's time for this chaos to stop. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u227	Thank you. Mr. Shopov, you're not wearing a mask again. Please put it on. You refuse or you don't have a mask? Then I ask you to leave the room! You can't do that. Mr. Shopov, please leave the room if you don't want to wear a mask. [[The People's Representative Pavel Shopov is not taking offense.]] We can stand by and watch each other, but you're not the only one looking at you anymore, you're seen by a lot of people. [[People's representative Pavel Shopov continues to remain silent.]] Will you leave the room? At least make some kind of sign that you can hear me. [[Loud noise and lines, excitement.]] The Quaestors, would you please pay attention to Mr. Shopov? He's not responding. [[Radio.]] Please go to Mr. Shopov, he's not responding to what I'm telling him. It bothers me! Mr. Shopov, are you all right? At least make a sign that you're okay, but you absolutely refuse to wear a mask, talk to me or anything. [[People's representative Pavel Shopov continues to remain silent.]] Mr. Shopov, do you need medical attention?! Should we call for medical attention, Mr. Shopov? How are you feeling? [[Loud noise and lines.]] Let's hope you're okay. [[The Quaestors attempt to speak with the MP Pavel Shopov.]] Did he even talk to you? He's talking. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Guys, are there any other speeches? I won't. I'm calling off the debate. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs. They voted 120 MPs: 34 against 66, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Dora Yankova. They voted 124 MPs: 38, against 29, abstention 57. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 15. Vote 126 MPs: 83 against 42, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Thirty minutes off, and we're back to work. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u228	Let's get back to work. Mrs. Angelova, come in. Mr. Shopov, I can't see from here. Are you wearing a transparent mask? Are you wearing a plastic mask or not wearing a mask? [[(Replys: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] Please put on your mask or leave the room. [[People's representative Pavel Shopov does not wear a mask, but does not leave the room.]] Mr. Shopov, please put on a mask or leave the room! If you don't have a mask, we can provide you with a mask. [[(Comments from GERB: The mask was given to him. They gave it to him.]] Is there a spare mask, Mr. Shopov has... [[(Comments from GERB: The mask was given to him.]] Did you give it to him? Mr. Shopov, please obey the laws of the country. The Minister of Health's orders have the power of law. [[Heckling]] If they like the Quaestors to remove Mr. Shopov from the hall. [[The Quaestors speak with the MP Pavel Shopov, but he neither wears a mask nor leaves the hall.]] I ask those sitting in front of him, less than two meters away, as Mr. Shopov is a potential risk of coronavirus infection. Passersby, go further down the stairs, further away from Mr. Shopov. Mr. Shopov, please leave the room! Colleagues who are in front of the people's representative Pavel Shopov, if you would like to move away so that we do not put you at risk of infection. Thank you. Mr. Shopov, with great regret I have to inform you that I personally called RZI Sofia and we are waiting for them to come to give you a constitutional report. The starting fine is 300 lv. I hope it's your first time, if it's not the first time, then the fine can become 3,000 levs. Let's get back to work. Quaestors, take the necessary measures to get Mr. Shopov out of the room. [[The Quaestors spoke with the MP Pavel Shopov, but he did not leave the hall.]] Mrs. Angelova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u229	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Under art. 16 there is a proposal of the MP Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 16 the following amendments shall be made: "1." In para. 1: (a) in row II. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 350000. (b) in row 1. "Current expenditures' is replaced by "Current expenditures' and "Current expenditures' and "Current expenditures' is replaced by "Current expenditures'. (c) row 1.2.2.1. is amended as follows: ..1.2.2.1. Macedonian Institute of Science and Thracian Institute of Science 20 (c) of row III. "Budget relationships" (transfers) " (+/-) is replaced by "905 429,6" and the number "795 329,6" is replaced by "905 429,6" is replaced by "Budget relationships" (transfers). (d) of row 1. Budget statement with the central budget (+/-) the number (e) of row 2. Budgetary relations with other budgetary organisations (+/-) the number (f) of row 2.2. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. (g) of row 2.2.1. including for the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences the number (h) in row 2.2.2. for state universities, the number 2. In para. 2: (a) of row 1. Policy in the field of comprehensive, accessible and quality pre-school and school education. Lifelong learning the number b) On the line All: the number..808 3. In para. 4 in the table the following amendments are made (the numbers referring to the amount of transfers to state universities are changed as numbers in column 3 of the table below, the government's proposals are replaced by the numbers in column 4). The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 2, p. 1 the following changes are made: == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man lv. s is replaced by the number s 733 550,40 thousand. lv. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Julian Angelov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of MP Yordan Yordanov and group of MPs: "2." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 the following amendments and additions are made: "2." 1. In II. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 350000. 2. 1. 1. Row 1.2.2.2 is inserted: "A" is the word "A" for Dobrudzhan Institute of Science 35,0 2. 2. In III budget relations (transfers) the number 2. 2. 1. In line 1. "Budget relations with the central budget" "The number."1 481 410.8" is replaced by.1 481, 445.8" (+ 35.0). The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 16: Art. 16. (1) It shall adopt the budget of the Ministry of Education and Science for 2021 as follows on the attached table. (2) Confirms the allocation of the costs under para. 1 by policy areas and budget programmes, as follows by the attached table. (3) Confirms the maximum amounts of expenditure commitments that may be made in 2021 and the maximum amounts of new expenditure obligations that may be accumulated in 2021 by the Ministry of Education and Science, as follows in the attached table. (4) Determine transfers from the budget of the Ministry of Education and Science to the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and to the state universities as follows on the table applied in the Report. (5) In the transfer under para. 4 t. 15 are included funds of 355,1 thousand. lv. to ensure the activity of the Research and Exam Laboratory in Sports at Sofia University. Kliment Ohridski "in connection with the transfer of functions and activities of the Doping Control Laboratory from the Antidopping Center of Sofia University" St. Kliment Ohridski "in connection with the transfer of functions and activities of the Doping Control Laboratory." According to § 11 of the Transitional and Final Provisions, Kliment Ohridski
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u230	Before we proceed to debate, once again, I urge MP Pavel Shopov to leave the Chamber or put on a mask. The Quaestors, can't you get him out of the room? [[Reply.]] I understand it's not pleasant to use violence and that you can't do that, but... In that case, please very much provide a signal bar and surround the MP Pavel Shopov in a diameter of two meters. [[Laughter]] I'm opening the debate. [[Heckling]] There's no way we can put a mask on him, please. We can't force it on him. [[Noise and lines.]] Please be quiet in the hall. Here you are, Mrs. Anastasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u231	Mr. Chairman, ministers gentlemen, colleagues! I suppose that when drawing up the draft budget that we are discussing, the Council of Ministers and, in particular, the Ministry of Education have taken into account their own assessments presented in the draft Partnership Agreement of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021 - 2027, which is a type of government self-assessment for the 10 years of government, which points to our 83rd place in the world and our 26th place in the European Union according to the indicator of education quality, as well as the deterioration of this indicator for the last ten years with 19 positions, which I think says everything - and about nearly half of the 15-year-olds, which are functionally illiterate, and about the high share of those uncovered in the education system, and about many other problems. I hope that these conclusions are at the heart of the increased funds for education. We will, of course, support the increase in funds for education, including teachers' salaries. I just want to say here once again that the increase in the single cost standard for a student is once again an estimated 8%, for an institution of 13%, for a class of 8%. It's for unspecialized schools, of course, but they're still the most in the country. At the same time, wages need to increase 15.. 16%. This means that the directors will once again squeeze out the budgets to achieve this increase and again it will be at the expense of other activities in schools that can still achieve it. Of course, teachers' salaries in the educational system are only part of the funds for education. The rest is mostly the expected increase in spending standards, financing compulsory pre-school education, money for repairs, improving the material base. These are all necessary things, but none of them represent a particularly cardinal change in school education, nor does it talk about deepening the reform of the system, with which I would like to say that wage increases cannot be an objective. The goal is quality of education, and it is far from just a function of teacher's salaries. In this sense, for example, we expected through the budget the Ministry of Education and Science to fulfil its role in managing and controlling the quality of education, to take measures, including through financial instruments in schools, where the level of quality of education is greatly reduced, and in places it is tragic. To put order, criteria and control in the training and qualification of pedagogical staff, because there are also increasing funds, as they are 1.2% of the Fund "Work salary" in each educational institution, which for the territory of the country and within the system are huge funds. We are aware that the continuing qualification of teachers continues to be ineffective. To make a real and not cosmetic change in study programmes and content so that children can understand what they are learning, which is once again linked to the budget, where the funds, for example, for the so-called free textbooks amount to 35 million. lv. And here I'm going to mention: does no one in the Ministry of Education and Science get the impression that I said this at the meeting of the Committee of Education that a textbook costs more than a book by a foreign author with a thousand copies, with copyright and translation included, and quite often printed in the same printers where the textbooks are printed. Once again we offer a textbook on a class subject and free textbooks for all students from I to XII grade, which will cost the budget 50 million. lv. Quality education is a complex of factors here is the problem in the proposed budget we do not see the idea of providing this complex of factors. The most serious problem facing the system is the lack of personnel, for example, does not find a complex solution because the release from fees and the increase of admission in pedagogical specialties will not be enough to eliminate the shortage of lecturers, what remains for the other fundamental problems in our system. We believe that it was worth taking into account also the requests expressed in the opinion of the Union of Employers in the system of public education for targeted funds for dealing with the crown crisis, which we in the parliamentary group of BSP in Bulgaria are putting at the beginning of the pandemic and which, in our opinion, does not yet have a solution. This will help schools, many of which have complied with all anti-epidemic measures at the expense of their own budgets, and those who failed...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u232	Your time is up, Mrs. Anastasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u233	...to do this, I'm finishing up who did it at the expense of the parents. And I'm going to end up with the fact that we're offering 60 million. lv. for taking over from the state of the fees of all children in nurseries and kindergartens without dividing the children, which is an element of BSP's complex approach to solving demographic problems in the country. Thank you. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u234	Thank you. - What's the line? I don't see anyone wishing for a line. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Mehmet.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u235	Ladies and gentlemen of ministers, fellow Members! The second day we look at the budget, the second day no opposition proposal is accepted. I don't know how normal that is! The truth is, and we know in advance that the budget with this marathon that we have started, even if it continues on tomorrow, and the remaining proposals will not be accepted. However, this is a budget of the state, not a separate party budget, not a budget of half the plenary. We're looking at the education budget, and I'm not going to say a word about an increase in teachers' salaries. We will leave this generously to the Minister of Education and to our colleagues from GERB. It will cover only three topics, what has been missed, neglected or perhaps poorly thought out: one topic from preschool, school and one topic for higher education. Dear colleagues, in 2010, the group of 6-year-olds in compulsory pre-school training was added to the 5-year-old children in kindergartens. Two months ago, we added four-year-olds to their mandatory range. The budget is allocated 36 million. lv. What children remained in kindergartens who did not receive to date government support? Only three-year-olds. In order to be able to separate from this tribune and by means of a legal document with secured funds for free kindergartens, there are only 65 thousand 3-year-olds left, we proposed it two months ago. Dismissed! We sincerely hoped that this proposal would reconsider and find its place in the State Budget Bill. Maybe it's not too late. Perhaps this really needs to be realised soon as a government decision, and this really needs to be financially secured. You put $70 million in the budget. lv. for repair and reconstruction of nursery, kindergartens and schools. Colleagues, which kindergartens are we talking about and which schools? If this money is earmarked only for the construction of kindergartens in Sofia, Varna, Plovdiv and Burgas, it means that Bulgaria will not receive such funds in a balanced way. If this money is intended only for the renovation of modern schools in Sofia, which will become even more modern, the question arises: what happens to schools in small towns and small settlements that are neither renovated nor closed? Some modern schools are under the conditions of the 21st century with all the requirements of new technologies such as conditions and other schools, as I said last year, are still warming to wood and coal. It is anachronism and this problem must be solved. We even asked for a list of schools like this. We're offering that 70 million. lv. To make it 100 million. BGN, in order for all municipal schools to be able to apply and receive this funding, so that the children can be trained in real good conditions, the same as with the schools in the big cities. And the last subject: higher education. In May, the minister will remember here, from the DPS we raised the topic of increasing the unthinkable increase, the fees of medical students.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u236	The weather, Mr. Mehmet.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u237	I'm done, Mr. Chairman. In the face of a pandemic, how long was this a state-owned decision? Instead of the specialty of being protected and when there is a lack of doctors in Bulgaria, especially on a planned and malicious day today, we increased student fees by nearly 45%.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u238	Get it over with!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u239	This also does not find its place in the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u240	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u241	Dear Mr. Mehmet, I'll be brief. Your message to the Ministry, to the majority and to the state regarding the increased fees in higher schools, above all in medical universities, is incorrect. Firstly, I would remind you that fees are determined by each university on the basis of the principle of autonomy. Secondly, in this case, this only concerned paid training at medical universities. Thirdly, the problem was that in some universities it concerned and already accepted paid training students, which practically changed the terms of a contract, roughly speaking, for training. In this sense, we cannot accept that this example is correct and affects state policy on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u242	Thank you. Are there any other lines? I can't see. Would you like to use the back? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u243	Mr. Mihov, thanks for the line. As a matter of fact, what you said is to some extent true, but the idea is that I didn't have enough time to justify myself.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u244	Six minutes?!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u245	And that about the increase in student medical fees is true. Whether they are in paid training or not, at present the state has a screaming need for doctors, and the particular case that I had raised in May concerned most of the medical students in Plovdiv. But this turned out to be a problem throughout Bulgaria. And the official answer of the university as a matter of fact shifted the blame to the Ministry because they quoted the regulations of both the Ministry of Education and Science and the Council of Ministers. This thing can be checked out. The increase was not for 300 BGN, but close to 3,400 BGN. And it is a matter of politics, especially to date, when there are really no doctors, for the state to consider what good government policy would be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u246	Thank you, Mr. Mehmet. Mrs. Anastasova, please put your mask on! Maria Tsvetkova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u247	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I would like to argue that IMRO's proposal to be financed by the state budget The Bulgarian Association of Generations from Macedonia. Why is the work of this association important? The Bulgarian association of the families from Macedonia has continued traditions held for more than a century and traditions for organizing and supporting the Bulgarians from Macedonia who have moved into the free borders of the Bulgarian Homeland. Through enlightened and cultural activities, the Association helps to preserve the historical memory, traditions and cultural values of the Bulgarian communities in the Republic of Bulgaria, in the Republic of Northern Macedonia and the Hellenic Republic with the same ancestral roots, and helps to overcome differences in relation to the past. This is particularly important today in the current relations with the Republic of Northern Macedonia and it is an association such as the Bulgarian Association of Generations of Macedonia that defends the Bulgarian national interest and helps to clarify the historical truth by countering the controversial Bulgarian cultural and historical heritage in Macedonia. The association is a member of the descendants of great Bulgarians, including the granddaughter of the glorious Colonel Boris Dragov.. Rayna Dragova, the granddaughter of the legendary leader of VMRO Todor Alexandrov, Evelina Alexandrova, the grandson of the voivod Michele Razvigorov, the granddaughter of the Bulgarian scribe and folklorist from Ohrid Kuzman Shapkarev.. Elisaveta Shapkareva, a number of scientists, including Professor Todor Petrov, associate Professor Naum Kaichev, associate Professor Alexander Grebenarov and many other prominent public figures and descendants of Bulgarians who died for the national unification. The association participates each year in events taking place in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Northern Macedonia, among them I can list celebrations on the occasion of anniversaries from the Ilinden-Preobrazian uprising held in the Bitola village of Smilevo, the panihides held at Vardar's pier in memory of the revolutionary Mara Buneva, the celebrations related to Colonel Kavarnaliev near Doyran, as well as many panihides of the Military Cemetery in Tsapari and in the New Village. The Bulgarian association of the families from Macedonia issued valuable books, including a phototype edition of the first biography of Gotse Delchev by the poet-renovian Peyo Yavorov, books about the Miladinov brothers, the Macedonian-Audrin militia, the Balkan wars, Colonel Boris Dragov and many others. With what value are these individuals who are members of the Bulgarian association of the families from Macedonia? They are an example of the growing generation and perform the very important mission to preserve Bulgaria in the Republic of Northern Macedonia and to help the young generation on the other side of the border learn more about its root, its identity and the history of its ancestors. The pledged funds will help the Bulgarian Association of Generations from Macedonia to expand its activities in relation to upcoming important events and anniversaries, as well as to continue its publishing activity in 2021. Unlike many other NGOs, which have been subsidised by the state budget for decades, the Bulgarian Association of Generations from Macedonia has not received funds and state subsidy. The Embassy of the Republic of Bulgaria in the Republic of Northern Macedonia, the State Agency of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, the Municipality of Petrich, the Municipality of Gotse Delchev, the Regional Museum of History in Blagoevgrad and Kyustendil was announced in support of the proposal for funding of the Bulgarian Association of Generations from Macedonia. Honourable Members, I call on you to support the proposal of IMRO The Bulgarian Association of Generations from Macedonia to be financed by the state budget with funds of 35 thousand. lv. It is our duty to help the patriotic work of this association continue because it is a bridge between generations of two branches of a brotherly nation. And more than that! Because this association and its members make sense of the words "Rod-Rodina-Rodina-Rodina-Rodina-National Memory"! Thank you. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u248	Thank you. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u249	Mr. President, ministers, honourable gentlemen, fellow Members! Dear Mrs. Tsvetkova, I'm glad you made this offer. This is our proposal one to one of last year's budgets and was not accepted. I hope this year will happen. But my reply to you is: why is there a double regime, a double attitude towards the financing of these patriotic organizations and neglects the Union of Thracian companies in Bulgaria, as we will see soon again, because it performs a very patriotic activity. And I would say much more Bulgaria owes it to him because he retains the spirit of Bulgarianity in this purely Bulgarian area, called Thrace, which is currently not within the Republic of Bulgaria, and we pretend that this activity does not exist and the state has no relation whatsoever. In a moment we will see that the chairman of the Thracian Scientific Institute was Ekzarh Stefan from 1934 to the end of World War II and the work he carried out was not small. Because to speak now in Eastern Thrace and in Western Thrace about Bulgaria and what was Thrace this is a merit of the Union of Thracian companies in Bulgaria. So we will support this proposal of yours, but I ask you to further support the proposal to support the activities of the Thracian Scientific Institute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u250	Second line, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u251	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In order for there to be no misunderstanding further, I also say immediately at the very beginning that I welcome your proposal and will support it, and I will vote for.............................. BGN, for which there should be no problem for the state budget. I am extremely in the position that such patriotic organizations, which protect Bulgarianity, should be financed and supported by the state, supported in any way by not only through funding. Here, however, I say again that I am joining my colleague Georgi Yordanov's reply to the Thracian companies, which last year the majority rejected. I didn't follow how they voted. The United Patriarchs then, I hope, supported the funding of Thracian companies, their non-governmental organization. [[Radio chatter]] But I'd like to call you back when we get to him and back this up. I want to tell you that the state, unfortunately, unfortunately, has no policy in this direction, because you have said very nice words about the Macedonian Scientific Institute, and I am sure you have, you have also said who the members are. But here, without being prepared, I can go out and talk about a number of other such non-governmental organizations, patriotic, who also deserve such funding or such support from the state. Maybe it's good to... [[(Reply from the National Representative Julian Angelov:]] But don't yell at me from across the street. I support your offer, and you scream like...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u252	Mr. Gokov, don't engage in dialogue, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u253	He's yelling rudely. So I say to you: it is good for the state to come up with some position on this issue... which organizations we support, who we do not support, so that there are no such individual shares as yours, as ours and to yell at me from there: "Why don't you offer them!........................................................................ because the state is to support its.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u254	The weather, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u255	...not to individual MPs to offer lobbyists who this one, the other one.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u256	Procedure! [[Replications from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u257	Thank you. Mrs. Nieva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u258	Third line!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u259	You're suspended from the court, Mr. Shopov. You're not in the room for me! [[Laughter from GERB and BSP for Bulgaria.]] You're disturbing the court and you're suspended for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u260	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u261	You can't, don't tell who's waiting and who's not waiting. Ms. Niva, will you take advantage of your right to speak? Here you go. Are you gonna talk or not talk?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u262	Dear Mr. Simeonov, dear colleagues! In Section "Accounts, aids and donations", points 1.2.2.1 our proposal is to add to the "Macedonian Research Institute" to the "Trakian Research Institute" and the sum of "100 thousand." £200 thousand. £200 thousand. £200 thousand. lv. The Thracian Science Institute has a 86-year history, and in recent years it has established itself as a significant public factor... [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u263	Okay, what is it? Why are you shouting? I don't get it. Please be quiet! [[Replications from OP.]] Well, she didn't pick up the back. I don't think there's a back. [[Replications from OP.]] Come on, next time. Go on.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u264	...and in recent years it has established itself as a significant public factor, an intellectual center, a patriotic center and a serious engine for the preservation of the Bulgarian spirit and national identity. The Thracian Research Institute has great scientific potential from researchers and has two branches in Kardzhali and in Varna. It preserves folk memory, continues decade-long traditions, enriches the spiritual and cultural life of many of our people, namely the Thracian Bulgarians. Dear colleagues, support our proposal, as the Thracian Scientific Institute not only enriches spiritual and cultural life, not only preserves the centuries-old traditions of our people, but is also an emblem of patriotism.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u265	Thank you, Ms. Niva. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? [[People's representative Pavel Shopov stands close to the stand and insists on a procedure in the manner of conduct. Noise and lines from OP.]] There are no other speeches. I'll close the debate then. [[Replications from OP.]] Don't shout from there! If you have anything, raise your hand and make a statement. [[Replications from OP.]] I don't see him, you see, I don't see him! [[Laughter at GERB and BSP for Bulgaria.]] I'm calling off the debate. We're going to vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs under § 16. They voted 125 MPs: 55 against 49, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs under § 16. They voted 136 MPs: 53, against 59, abstention 24. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the National Representative Yordan Yordanov and a group of MPs - this is for the Dobrudzha Research Institute, not by the Commission. They voted 132 MPs: 46, against 42, abstention 44. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of § 16 as amended by the Commission. Vote 141 MPs: 138 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. With this, § 16 was accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u266	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u267	Please continue the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u268	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u269	I can't give in the way of a man being removed from the court! Here you go. Mrs. Angelova, please wait for the procedure. [[Noise and lines from OP, lines from MP Pavel Shopov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u270	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I think it is, after all, a serious undertaking that we are doing today, and we need to take it more seriously. However, I believe that in our Rules there is no written text in which not wearing a mask is a reason for someone to be removed from the Chamber. This is a MP, this is a MP, and that without a mask is a prerequisite for being punished in another way, not by eviction from the Chamber. [[Noise and lines from OP.]] [[Radio chatter and rhymes]] So instead of yelling at me, don't end up in another parliament in the same situation. When such a dispute is organised for a Member of the National Assembly, each of you should be worried because you do not know who will be in majority next time, so let the principles be respected. I demand that he be given the floor and asked to put on his mask or leave the Chamber, but there is no reason for him to be expelled from the sitting. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from OP and BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u271	Mr. Shopov is suspended by virtue of art. 161 for one sitting: "Supposes against the disciplinary measure imposed in a rude and indecent manner. " [[Noise and lines from OP and BSP for Bulgaria.]] At the insistence of the BSP parliamentary group we will give Mr. Shopov the opportunity for a procedure... [[Noise and lines from OP, livening in BSP for Bulgaria.]] Please, no reactions! However, before that, due to disorder of order in the Chamber, there is no need to refer to explicit text or to have such a text that it should wear a mask. The order in the Chamber is sufficient reason to be imposed on him, and I sentence him to reprimand, disciplinary measure, reprimand! Since you've already been reprimanded, Mr. Shopov, please come in for a procedure. [[Noise and lines in GERB, OP and BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u272	Dear colleagues, let us learn in this case both procedures and decisions, acts of substance. And if it hadn't been for the esteemed Madame President, she tipped her mind to Mr. Simeonov, we would have continued this drama. I wanted to say that there is a certain way, a procedure in which penalties are imposed, as it is in a court of law, as it is in any particular jurisdiction, and in our Parliament in accordance with the Rules. It is clear to the entire Bulgarian people that Mr. Simeonov is absolutely untenable, illegitimate Vice-President of the National Assembly... [[The President turns off the microphones. The orator continues to speak on off microphones.]] Mr. Shopov, please release the stands! [[The speaker keeps talking on off microphones.]] Thank you, Mr. Shopov. [[The speaker's talking on off microphones.]] Mr. Shopov, if you please, do not interfere with the meeting at the time of the hearing, because I will be forced to impose a more severe disciplinary measure! [[The speaker keeps talking on off microphones.]] Mr. Shopov, under art. 161, t. 2 I can impose on you a removal from one sitting, because you do not allow for normal work in the Chamber for a long time. Release, please, the stands. You are interfering with the normal work of the National Assembly. [[The speaker keeps talking on off microphones.]] Mr. Shopov, please release the stands! [[The speaker's talking on off microphones.]] Mr. Shopov, you are not giving the National Assembly a chance for normal work! [[The speaker keeps talking on off microphones.]] Mr. Shopov, I'm taking you out of the National Assembly meeting for one session! Please leave! [[The speaker continues to speak on off microphones. Laughter at GERB and BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u273	Honourable Members of the National Assembly! [[Noise and lines.]] With these advices and calls, you achieve nothing but to interfere with the normal work of the National Assembly and encourage people who violate it. [[(Noise and lines:]] Yeah, yeah, no one gets anywhere near the stands until a perfect disinfect is done! If you could clear the table downstairs, because the speaker was very loudly screaming and spreading saliva by air-dropping! Are there any lines? I won't. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u274	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Under art. 17 has a proposal of the MP Maria Tsvetkova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 17 the following amendments and additions are made: ..1.1. In para. 1: 1. 1. 1. In II. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 350000. 1. 1. 1. 1. in line 1. The current costs and costs of the number of the company are replaced by the number of the company's employees. 1. 1. 1. 1.1 of row 1.1. The number of the number ssq.153 322,7 is replaced by the number sq.156 483,3 (+3 160,6); 1. 1. 2. In III. The value of this item shall be equal to or greater than the value of any of the items listed in Annex I to Delegated Regulation (EU) 2015/35 of the European Parliament and of the Council and shall be equal to or greater than the value of the items listed in Annex II to this Regulation. 1.1.2.1 of row 1. "Budget relations with the central budget" (the number.288 264,6.) is replaced by.211 425,2.) (+ 3 160,6). 1.2. In para. 2, row 2 "Politicals in the field of the creation and promotion of contemporary art in the country and abroad and access to quality artistic education' the number 1.2.1. create row 2.1: 2.1. Budget Programme "Scenery Arts" "Secretary Arts" "Secretary Arts" "Secretary Arts" "Secretary Arts" "Secretary Arts" "Secretary Arts" "Secretary Arts" The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 17.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u275	Statements? Mrs. Tsvetkova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u276	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly! According to the draft budget of the Ministry of Culture for 2021 under the Programme of the Programme "Performing Arts', nearly 120 million were envisaged. lv. In the case of expenditure in 2020, approximately 112 million. BGN, i.e. the proposed increase in the State Budget Act for Performing Arts is about 7%, which is extremely insufficient for the sector. Moreover, compared with the 2019 budget, which has exceeded 138 million. BGN, we see that the current draft budget is 18 million. lv. less. Given that the sector is one of the most affected by the CIVID-19 epidemic, we propose that the planned common costs of the budget programme be increased by 10% for wages in the sector. We propose that the budget for 2021 be increased by 11 million. 194,000. lv. compared to this year's budget and to 123 million. 140,000. lv. From IMRO, we believe that cultural artists working in the field of performing arts deserve better and decent rewards, taking into account, of course, that the 10% we offer are insufficient. It is essential to encourage the creation of new Bulgarian works and productions. In this way, Bulgarian artists in various arts will engage in more of the following: composers, authors of plays, directors, artists, sceneographers, costume artists, choreographers and, of course, musical and theatre performers. Such a measure will counteract the active processes of denationalization of the artistic and cultural environment, with commercial productions engaged primarily in the uncritical satisfaction of mass taste and attitudes. It is obvious that it is necessary to rethink the standard for the financing of performing arts, which work in the context of a permanent shortage of funds. Given the epidemic situation in the country, which imposes the restriction of the audience in the salons and accordingly reduces the revenues from the tickets, we believe that the state budget support for theatres, operas, Philharmonics, orchestras, ensembles and ballets is essential. We stand by the opinion that not only stage artists but, in general, artists in the field of culture deserve a fair percentage of the budget. For years, culture has been underfunded and wages in the sector are between 75 and 80% of the average wage. We believe that culture must be removed from the sector of Sport, rest activities and religious work and find its worthy place until education. From IMRO we are convinced that it is high time for culture to be brought up as a national priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u277	Thank you. - What's the line? No. A statement? Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u278	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm asking for your attention and a little quiet, because it's a special moment when we talk about culture. I am very happy to have debates on the topic of "Culture" in this House, because it is very important to me. I will always be of the opinion that the budget for culture is insufficient and must be greater. Even if they pour billions into this budget for culture, I would still be of the same opinion. This is my main job in the Bulgarian Parliament to fight for more money, attention and more policies for Bulgarian culture. However, the budget for 2021 is generous to culture and the money is nearly 30 million more than last year by 13%. In 2010, the budget for culture was just over 100 million.. 102 million and in 2021 the budget for culture was 245 million. If you listen carefully to my speech, you will understand that it is absolutely real for culture money to become 270 million. lv. So far no more money has been given for culture, yet I say that I think they should always be more. It is my great pride that last week in the Council of Ministers a Law on the Film Industry was passed. I am part of the working group and for more than a year we have been working on this bill, which has not been changed for nearly 15 years and the money for Bulgarian cinema for years has always been around 15 million. In the Bill is planned an increase for this sector, pay attention, with 25 million more for Bulgarian cinema. With this money, the budget for culture for 2021 will become exactly 270 million and will be increased by 25% from last year alone. This law and this increase in the money for Bulgarian cinema is a curiosio something unheard of and unseen, and this thing makes it this government of Boyko Borisov, GERB and the United Patriarchs. I thank Minister Banov and Minister Ananiev for the assistance for this thing, because this is really a memorable moment for Bulgarian cinema. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u279	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u280	I am also glad that I have personal merit for this bombastic, beautiful and wonderful news about Bulgarian cinema. In addition to the 10 million above for film production, the Law provides for seven to 12 feature feature films, increasing documentaries, increasing cartoons and so on. The Law also provides tax benefits for cash, back mechanisms for money spent and invested in the Bulgarian economy, from which both the state will win and the people in the industry will be very pleased. These incentives are very important and our neighbours in the Balkans have enjoyed them for a long time, as have most countries in Europe. So far we haven't taken advantage, but we've been missing clients and big movie companies like NetFlix and others. Now, with the new ZFI, this will be corrected as well as for foreign productions, there will be another five million for financial incentives and tax reliefs for Bulgarian cinema. With these measures in the Law in addition to fresh money in the Bulgarian economy, we will bring Bulgarian cinema even closer to European cinema, to which our family belongs with our unique cultural identity. Soon I thought of something else, that aside from the budget that is being given, as we say, it will be 270 million. lv. in the central budget, municipalities also give every year money for culture. If we raise this money from municipalities and from the budget, perhaps we will get closer to this one percent of gross domestic product for culture, which has been talked about for so long. Specially for the sector "Performing arts" I would like to say that all salaries will be raised by 10% in the sector for 2021. Even if the theatres and other stage institutes do not work and do not play, they will receive their salaries and their overheads will also be paid. There is a 10% increase in the budget for libraries and community centers. Money is also provided for digitalization and centralization of the Chitalishte funds and libraries. There will also be an increase in the number of jobs in these sectors. There's more money for the National Library, which is very important. I always thought, as my fellow Patriots said, that culture and education are connected. After so much care and education is a priority for this government, you know, the teachers' salaries have been increased several times, there has been no unrepaired and unrenewed Bulgarian school. I am glad that this policy is transferred to the Bulgarian culture as well. She and her education are already going together. About your proposal, colleagues. This budget, as you know, has a framework. It is a very important question where do you propose to take this money? As far as I know, you're suggesting that they be taken from...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u281	Get it over with, Mr. Budinov!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u282	... The Commission of Religions and Other Feathers, but how will the people from whom you want to take money be treated? There's a very nice movie. The money of others. You can watch it. This proposal of yours...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u283	You're running out of time! Get it over with!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u284	At the last minute, it's a little populist. I'm saying this with all due respect. It's not very thoughtful and argumentative.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u285	Please release the stands! Are there lines? Mrs. Tsvetkova. Are there any other lines? I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u286	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen ministers, fellow MPs! Dear Mr. Budinov, although we have commented on our proposal with you, you obviously do not remember exactly where we propose to take this revenue to make the cost of performing arts. We suggested that this be not the Commission on Religion but the Commission on Protection against Discrimination and the Commission on Files. We believe that these two committees are absolutely unnecessary. They have a very bloated budget, a very large administration and we therefore believe that it is absolutely adequate from there to take funds to be added to the budget of the Ministry of Culture. We believe that such committees, such as the Commission for Protection against Discrimination and the Commission for Files, should be closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u287	Thank you. Are there any other lines? Mr. Bogdanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u288	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen ministers, fellow Members of the National Assembly! I will not comment on the proposal where these funds should be taken. After all, the budget has already been proposed in the final version, but I would replicate on whether it is a populist proposal. It is consistent with the opinion of the theatre guild and the people who are busy in the field of performing arts. This is their long-standing desire to spend more money on performing arts, extremely important at this difficult time. I know that the budget in times of crisis can very hardly focus on culture, which is actually not good, because culture is a sign of how civilized a people are. I have always dreamed of having a budget to put as its most important priority the culture in Bulgaria. But what we're proposing is really real, it's not some huge increase if I'm not mistaken, this proposal is of the order of three and a half million compared to the proposal that the Ministry of Culture brings, but it will give a small breath in the direction of being able to finance and really have this 10% increase in performing arts, which, whatever we talk about, with the current proposal cannot happen. Seven percent, the dry numbers, is what people will get in this extremely noble profession and vocation, not just a profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u289	Thank you, Mr. Bogdanov. Is there a third line? I won't. Hole, Mr. Budinov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u290	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen ministers, fellow Members of the National Assembly! Once again, there is a 10% increase in wages in this sector. In addition, in the theatre, as you know, there is a delegated budget for 1 BGN. Revenues The Ministry gives 3 BGN. for theatre performances, for puppet theater are raised to BGN 3.50, for operas are BGN 6. The sector is as concerned as possible, it can always be asked for more, but I do not think it is adequate and it is good to ask for money from other feathers or from another budget. I take this opportunity to thank Minister Banov and the entire Council of Ministers on behalf of the artists in Bulgaria for letting the theatres work even 30%. Thank you! Have a good day! [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Can we just, when we're talking about culture, colleagues on the left, not yell, because somehow it's not cultural! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u291	This is also a mark of culture, Mr. Budinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u292	Let's humble ourselves. They're fast! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u293	Thank you. Are there any other speeches? Here you go, Mrs. Yotova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u294	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen ministers! Yes, we have heard that for 2021 the budget of the Ministry of Culture is increasing by 10%, only very soon on bTV we saw an interview of Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev, who announced that according to the European Union resolution each member should foresee an increase in the budget for culture by 20%. This has not been done in budget 2021, and the 10% increase is extremely insufficient, and sectoral allocation has not been made on a clear and principled management framework. This is because for three years the Ministry of Culture has not proposed a final version of the National Strategy for the Development of Culture, Arts, Cultural and Creative Industries in Bulgaria for the next decade to regulate at least 1% of the gross domestic product to finance the sector. When we make any suggestions or speeches, when something doesn't suit you, you like to talk about events from the time of Dimitar Blagoev, perhaps it is enough. I would just like to remind you that between 2005 and 2009, when the Minister of Culture is Stefan Danailov, the budget for culture has reached 1.3%. Since then, 10 years have not reached more than 0.4. It's coming down to...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u295	After all, according to the texts of the Law, Mrs. Yotova. We've got a second reading!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u296	...0.5.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u297	By the texts of the Law!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u298	Yeah, by the lyrics, of course. The project for 2021 provides a 1.3 million increase for Bulgarian cinema. Although the Minister of Finance noted that a new law on Bulgarian cinema is pending, this fact is not in line with the draft budget and is contrary to the planned financing and the interview of Minister Banov on BNT, in which he says that Bulgarian cinema will receive an increase of 26 million. BGN, and in the draft budget this is missing. Our colleague Anastas Popdimitrov and I have posted a letter to the Minister of Culture, which we hope will be answered in writing this Friday, perhaps if there is a public discussion of this project. I want to tell you that a lot of people from the cinema area are Bulgarian filmmakers, have opinions to Mr. Banov, next to the director of the National Film Centre. Somehow this law is kept and kept completely secret. I also told Mr. Budinov that I would like to participate in this working group, but that never happened, I was not invited to participate there. So we need to have much more clarity with this law and still respect the Union of Bulgarian Filmmakers. The last thing I want to get into is 8 million. lv. to support freelance artists under pandemic conditions through the National Fund of Culture. Colleagues, as of today, we have quite new, much more severe epidemic measures. I must tell you that there have been people in the independent sector so far who literally have absolutely no funds. These are what some of you call marginals. It's not just about artists, it's about musicians, it's about people who have absolutely no livelihood at the moment. I would like to give you an example of Broadway closing by the end of 2021, but all the artists involved in the productions are paid the fees and what they have under contract. That's what you do in America. I end up with an example. In Germany, it's $5,000. Euros per artist during quarantine, because the Germans know very well what an angry artist does when he has to change his profession, if you know what I mean.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u299	Get it over with, Mrs. Yotova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u300	I'm done! Old as the world is the sentence that when you want to kill a people, you start with culture. So that's actually what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u301	Thank you. - What's the line? Are there any lines? Where are you going, Mr. Budinov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u302	Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u303	First of all, you didn't ask for a line. You go and perform self-government in the National Assembly. Please follow the order! A line is required from a place with a hand in hand, please. Is this your place? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u304	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen ministers, honourable Members of the Parliament! Mr. Simeonov, I see some sympathy for Mr. Shopov you didn't bring him back, I tried, but whatever. Dear Mrs. Yotova, when you talk about Broadway, I want to ask you how many state theaters there are in America, and are these benefits that you are talking about being paid by the state or the insurance company or anyone else? I'm glad and I think that we, as artists, should be on the same team and get along. I, too, have been acquainted with the Law on Cinema......... with the opinions.............................................................................. I am glad that you too, because there will be work between first and second reading of the Law and I think we can do a lot of good things together. So I suggest that we all join together for the movie law, regardless of which party we're from, which color we're from, to do good things for the people in the industry. I just want to tell you that the figures are not accurate to you. The increase for culture is not 10%, but 13%, plus this 25 million for Bulgarian cinema will become about 25%, or 270 million. lv. This is the second time I've said this, and I guess you didn't hear me the first time. And about these 0,5% of gross domestic product, if you consider the money that is also given by municipalities, you will find that they are much more. It is also important what gross domestic product is. Again, since 2010, the budget for culture has been tripled. I'm not saying it's enough. The money for culture must always be more. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u305	Thank you, Mr. Budinov. Are there any other lines? I can't see. If you'll have a hole, Mrs. Yotova, please come in. Meanwhile, please send to disinfect the place of the MP Pavel Shopov, because someone was just sitting there.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u306	Mr. Chairman, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers! I just want to say that, unfortunately, we're a long way from Broadway. We are in Bulgaria and all these wonderful things that you are saying tell them to those people who currently have nothing to put in their refrigerator.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u307	Thank you, Mrs. Yotova. Are there any other speeches? Mr. Chenchev, come in. I'd like you to put your noses under your mask in the front row. Mr. Mirchev, do you want me to make a comment again?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u308	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will read you some numbers in the example we heard just now about the Bulgarian Chitalishtes. We heard there's no unrepaired school left. I will now read to you about the Bulgarian Chitalishtes. A planned 10% increase in 2020 has been granted 80 million. BGN, and for 2021 it is planned to cover 90 million. lv. This year there was funding for 80 new staff members, and for 2021 only 40 for the Chitalishtes are foreseen. The planned standard maintenance of one state in the Chitalishtes for next year is BGN 7 735. We pleaded for an increase in the budget for the Chitalishtes and the standard of maintenance per unit to be 20% in view of the significant lag in the pay of the Chitalishte workers compared to the average wage for the country, i.e. the standard maintenance should not be less than 8 thousand. lv. for a state number. The exact amount of the average salary in the Chitalishtes is different because they are independent NGOs and the average salary is determined by the individual boards. The standard includes a quarter for minimum wage, a quarter for other cultural activities, a quarter for new books, a quarter for repair. To the funds they receive from the state budget, the Chitalishtes add other funds from donors, cultural events for which they sell tickets, and others. Another problem. Due to the problems with COVID-19 from budget 2020, 6 million were not spent. lv. for various projects by the National Film Agency. We have already insisted before Minister Banov in the portfolio committee that the Ministry of Culture should make sure that these funds are transferred to his budget for 2021, as is the case with the remnants of delegated budgets in the performing arts. We are talking, by the way, that theatres remain working, which is commendable, although with a capacity of 30%, but there is a significant drop in remuneration, the fees of artists. They were just talking about thanking themselves on behalf of all the artists, but right now their fees aren't even 50% cut, they're 30%. What, though, remains for the so-called free professions? Nothing! It was just mentioned. In addition, according to the so-called Antikovid Programme Plan to the sector, the creation of a 60 million fund for cultural exchange projects and 120 million for digitalization of funds in museums and libraries is planned. Five million of them are for the transformation of film tapes and sound of Bulgarian films, which are stored in the funds of the National Film and BNT. An important feather, which envisions the Antikovid Plan, is the project for energy efficiency in the buildings of Chitalishtes, Libraries and Performing Arts. We will require a detailed list of projects approved for such energy funding in particular, of course, those in the field of the sector of............................................................................................... Finally, there is quite an enthusiastic talk about this budget, but now I understand why some may be unsympathically involved in a stolen life, I think it was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u309	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Are there any lines? Here you are, a brief objection to the substance.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u310	Thank you for your instructions, Mr. Chairman. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chenchev, I generally agree with what you said. But I expected you to clarify to the negotiators that... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u311	Please, quiet in the room!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u312	... the difference of 10%, for example, of performing arts does not mean a 10% increase in these people's salaries, that their proposals to increase the funds in this activity do not mean that these funds will simply be used as they think they will, because there is a methodology by which the funds can be spent. And the problem is the methodology. It's a good thing Mr. Budinov thanks on behalf of all the artists. I hope that he has spoken to them personally and has their approval, but if the claim is not improved, what you are talking about is not going to happen. We will continue to produce not a work of art, but a product for sale. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u313	Will you use the hole, Mr. Chenchev? No. Thank you. Are there any other speeches?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u314	It's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u315	Personal explanation, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u316	I'm out.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u317	You're giving up? Here you are, Mr. Veleov, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u318	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I took the liberty of launching a tour in Bulgaria during the months of September and October, in which I had foreseen 20 cities, but I made in eight of them a meeting with... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u319	Please remain silent, mainly the parliamentary group of GERB! Your fellow partymate is currently in the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u320	I had a meeting with almost all my colleagues from the "City" sector in these eight cities by the end of October. I talked to them and found that, in fact, in the public sector, theatres, cultural institutes, all welcome and are satisfied with the methodology of delegated budgets. Of course, there is a need to optimize, but in general, their desire was in the situation of a pandemic to have a guaranteed basic salary and to work on the methodology which, for 2021, is intended to happen. That is, the request of colleagues in the sector will be satisfied. In addition, in 2020, the independent sector was targeted at 22,5 million. lv. in programmes to the National Fund of Culture and the Ministry of Culture. They have already reached more than five thousand artists and with cultural organizations will increase this number. Of course they didn't reach out to everyone, of course they weren't enough. I think it responds adequately to the conditions we find ourselves in. Unfortunately, the coming year will most likely pass under the sign of a pandemic. The Ministry of Culture is intended to continue working on these programmes. Almost every week, as far as I am aware, working focus groups with the independent sector are taking place, talking about optimization of the work of these programmes, committees to them, application conditions and so on. So please also keep in mind that the last 10 years, the only year in which the budget for culture has not been raised, this is 2014, when 2013 was voted, and not only is it not raised, but is down 2 million. So, please, please, take into account, and I don't think that you should be the one to attack in these conditions that we are currently in, the budget for culture. Of course, we colleagues in the sector are understanding. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u321	Colleagues, once again I call for order in this Chamber and silence!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u322	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u323	Thank you. Are there lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Minister, is there anything you'd like to say? No. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We're going to vote on art. 17. First, we are voting on the proposal of MP Maria Tsvetkova and a group of MPs not supported by the Commission. They voted 111 MPs: 25, against 39, abstention 47. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 17 according to the importer's text. Vote 112 MPs: 77 against 35, no abstentions.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u324	For Articles 18, 19 and 20, no proposals have been received. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Articles 18, 19 and 20.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u325	Statements under Articles 18, 19 and 20? Here you go, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u326	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen ministers! I will try to make a transition between the budget for culture..................................................................................... 17 and the budget of the environment.................................................................................... 18, however difficult it may be, but this will keep the relationship in the overall state budget. The budget for the environment, honourable Members, is four times smaller than the budget for culture. With all due respect, $64 million. BGN, the tasks that are put on the environment, we have to solve them, again I say, with four times less money. The paradox here is that our opinion and opinion coincides with the discontent of colleagues from the Ministry of Environment and Water for the fact that the activities and policies to be implemented are not provided for in the programming budgeting are not secured by funds. Unfortunately, we have to say the following: the budget in the system of environmental protection does not differ from the general political framework of the entire national budget, the budget of panic, fear and despair, the panic of a possible loss, the election scale of the funds spent and ultimately that the processes cannot be controlled. What are the main risks? There are serious risks in the budget that we are analysing not to carry out the Ministry's functions with regard to the components and environmental factors. This is what we call risks in implementing policies and risks in ensuring the administration. I'm going to say it now, and I'm going to say it a second time, and the MPs need to know it, the Ministry of Environment and Water, are employees with the lowest average salaries. The lowest remuneration is obtained in the Ministry of Environment and Water. Therefore, honourable Members, you should not worry and should not give a bad impression to the fact that at yesterday's date Bulgaria, in particular Sofia, is in the top three of the dirtiest cities in the world. There is no other way to do this, since the budget for the environment is four times smaller than the one for culture. Honor and glory of culture! It has to be even bigger, but if you think the budget for the environment is enough, I will talk you out of it now. Next, budget 2021 does not address the gap between the fact that environmental policies have a horizontal, pervasive nature. We do not see the greening of all sectors, of all areas of national agriculture, of economics, of social life, and that is the point of green policy. I can say that we Green Deal will welcome her with some green environmental thongs.... for as long as it will reach what is set in the budget. This is what we call a contradiction to the unconscious political framework. Environmental policies are horizontal, cross-sectoral. Thirdly, the internal contradiction in the environmental and water budget shows, as has been noted, that the money will not reach for the implementation of the budget policies within the Ministry. This is what we call a contradiction in the regulatory framework. Thus, the two main models of budget 2021 in the Environment sector are outlined in a nutshell of risks and contradictions. If I have enough time, I will present you with the ten grounds of my words. First of all, as I said, this is the Ministry with the lowest employee remuneration. In recent months at the Environment Executive Agency, the Swimming Directorate and the RIEW salaries have been increased by 30%. However, this has created internal tensions and contradictions that the central administration, national parks do not have such an increase. Now we see that a 10% increase is set for those positions for which there was no 30% increase. But the Minister of Finance will understand best that in the sense of art. 106, if it is up to 95% in terms of the maximum amounts of expenditure on the allocated budgets to be spent by the ministries, this means that this 10% new increase in 95% will be fulfilled, that is, it will not be so. As a final result, there is an inability to carry out the activity. I am extremely uncomfortable to note that the budget of the Executive Environment Agency is one that reports the results on the components and factors of the state of nature to the European Commission that it cannot fulfil its obligations. And last but not least, the National Programme for the Improvement of Atmospheric Air Quality provided for this year...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u327	Finish it, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u328	Yes, of course, Mr. Chairman. ...30 million we don't see in this budget either. I'm sorry, but there's a very obscene metaphor about how you're trying to do something with nothing, but our concern about budget 2021 for the environment is very serious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u329	Finish it, Mr. Kostadinov. Thank you. - What's the line? I don't see anyone who wants to. Any other speeches? Mr. Danchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u330	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the proposed budget of the Ministry of Economy, we believe there is no economic analysis which sectors are affected by the crisis to what extent. In fact, it should be made clear that the Bulgarian economy has lost nine months and the needy companies have not reached the necessary help. This fact, by the way, was also confirmed by the Prime Minister's public statement last week. In the beginning, I recall, the CIVID epidemic, on 24 March this year at a noisy press conference, Prime Minister Borisov announced that the state set aside 4.5 billion. lv. to support the economy. Last week, the prime minister, during one of his walks with the economy minister, said the state has helped business by 1 billion since the start of the pandemic. lv. Well, the question is, where did 3.5 billion of the funds go, and why didn't they get into business? The answer can only be one "GERB government" is unable to take care of Bulgarian enterprises adequately and in time. I am opening a clamp to remind you that the National Assembly has established a Commission for the Control of the Funds for overcoming the consequences of COVID. Someone from the government, I ask myself, does he intend to report the money distributed to this committee and present a plan for the new costs and measures? [[GERB noise.]] In the budget of the Ministry of Economy for 2021 there are no measures to restore the economy, there are no corresponding estimates to support the limited anti-epidemic businesses, including the measures imposed today. [[Laughter, excitement in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u331	Mrs. Stoyanova, you're going too far! [[Calls MP Menda Stoyanova.]] I'll take you out of the courtroom.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u332	By the way, this is also confirmed by representatives of different branch organizations. They have no confidence in the words and promises of the Prime Minister and his ministers and perhaps that is why some of them called yesterday before taking any measures to think exactly how the Bulgarian business will be supported. The proposed budget of the Ministry of Economy is a symbol of irresponsibility. There is no targeted investment policy to replace the collapse of investment in the private sector. In fact, the planned funds in the budget of the Ministry of Economy for 2021 for policy are 5 million. lv. less than in comparison with the funds for 2020. It relies mainly on the aid from the European Union, whose distribution, by the way, is constantly changing and does not provide any security for the Bulgarian enterprises. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, once again our appeal is to stop the examination of this budget now and to revise it, including adequate measures to support the Bulgarian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u333	Was that a procedure I couldn't understand?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u334	No, it's a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u335	It's just a statement. Thank you. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I am calling off the debate on art. 18, 19 and 20. I shall put to the vote the texts of art. 18, 19 and 20 by importer. Voted 103 MPs: 69, against 33, abstention 1. The proposal has been adopted.. 18, 19 and 20 members have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u336	Under § 21, there is a proposal of the MP Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 21 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in row II. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 65000. (b) in row 1. "Current expenditures' is replaced by "Current expenditures' and "Current expenditure' is replaced by "Current expenditures' and "Current expenditure' is replaced by "Current expenditures' and "Current (c) of row 2. "Capital costs' is replaced by "32 200,0" by the number "Kapital costs'. 2. In para. 2: (a) of row 1. The number is replaced by the number "99 037,4" by the number "Sustainable Development Policy" in the field of sustainable development of tourism. b) in line All: the number The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 21.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u337	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u338	Madam President, honourable Members of Parliament, honourable Ministers, except for the Minister of Tourism, who shines with his absence, is probably busy somewhere recruiting tourists to help...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u339	Don't comment on the Minister's work. Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u340	It should be commented, Madam President, because in a situation where we are all aware that tourism was the most seriously affected sector of the COVID pandemic, this too you are aware of and not once or twice said that tourism is the most affected sector, the minister being absent in my opinion is not correct, provided that, since even you realize that the sector is indeed the most affected, the budget of the Ministry of Tourism is the lowest of the budgets of all ministries. And in it, despite the many promises you made and continue to make, you really didn't put anything into the budget of the Ministry of Tourism. I will remind you, at the beginning of the crisis, at the first closing of the state, what promises were made to the tourism industry and what was fulfilled. You promised 8 million for the vouchers, 210 leva. with 7 nights "The proposal of the United Patriarch, 50 million for the charters, 10 million assistance to the tour operators, 3 million for the tour guides and a number of others, these are the more important ones. Now I'll tell you what you've done with all this stuff. Out of 8 million for vouchers at 210 leva. For 7 nights, about 60,000 have been spent so far. lv. 60 thousand. lv. Used at $8 million at stake. I want you to understand how absorption is, how and how many people in the industry you've helped. 50 million for the charters - zero leva. 10 million for tour operators.. paid so far zero leva. Three million for the tour guides, it turned out that you could not help them in this way because they were physical and not legal persons. I mean, you lied to them, too. And for this three million absorption rate is zero leva. In this situation, what we offer from BSP is entirely related to support for the tourism industry, but really real support, not support for fairy tales. The support is with numbers that are laid down in the budget expenditures of the Ministry of Tourism, and thus really people in the industry to be calm, to receive real help, and not just empty promises. In this regard, as I said, are also our proposals relating to vouchers other than for food to apply for rest; additional funds for vouchers for the people who are on the front line; money for infrastructure to improve the tourist environment, as well as funds for charters, which, by the way, you accepted, but you only accepted them in fairy tales, as I said, performance is zero. So I call on all of you, colleagues, because you have indeed stated that you are aware that this is the most affected sector, to support BSP's proposals, because they are solely and solely aimed at helping and restoring this sector. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u341	Thank you, dear Mr. Prodanov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MPs Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs. They voted 107 MPs: 30, against 58, abstention 19. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 21. They voted 102 MPs: 68, against 31, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Article 22, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u342	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 22. Under art. 23 there is a proposal of the MP Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 23 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in row II. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 350000. (b) in row 1. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 350000. (c) of row 1.2. the number of the current transfers and other current transfers is replaced by the number of the number of the current transfers and the number of the current transfers, which are replaced by the number of the current transfers, is (d) of row 1.2.1. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. (e) in row III. the number of the budget relationship (Transfers) (+/-) is replaced by the number of the budget relationship (s) +/-) of the number of the budget relationship (s) of the financial instrument (s) of the financial instrument (s) of the financial instrument (s) and of (f) of row 1. The figure of the budget of the budget of the budget of the European Union (+/-) is replaced by the number of the budget of the European Union and is replaced by the amount of the budget of the European Union and is replaced by the amount of the appropriations made available to the Commission by the amount of the 2. In para. 2: (a) of row 1. "Agriculture and rural policy' is replaced by "Administrative policy'; b) of line The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 23, para. 1 the following changes are made: "4.1. In Section II, the cost of the number lv. is replaced by the number s. 268 475,2 thousand. lv. - What do you mean? 1.1. the number..151 961.1 thousand. lv. lv. 4.2. In Section III, "Budget relationships" (Transfers) the number. "94 089,2 thousand. lv.s is replaced by.97 089,2 thousand. lv. - What do you mean? 2.1.1. the number lv.s is replaced by.34 536.2 thousand. lv. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 23, para. 4 the number..24,000. lv. is replaced by the number lv. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Irena Dimova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 23: Art. 23. (1) It shall adopt the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry for 2021 as follows under the attached table. (2) Confirms the allocation of the costs under para. 1 by policy areas and budget programmes, as follows under the table implemented. (3) Confirms the maximum amounts of expenditure commitments that may be made in 2021 and the maximum amounts of new expenditure obligations that may be accumulated in 2021 by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, as follows, on the table applied in the Report. (4) Confirms funds of 24,000 thousand. lv. for the provision of a public service for the protection against the harmful effects of the waters entrusted to the Irrigation Systems (IEDs), which are within the current costs under para. 1 and cannot be redirected for other purposes. (5) Confirms funds of 2 120,6 thousand. lv. to ensure the implementation of the activities of the Executive Agency, the Certification Audit of European Agricultural Funds Funds, which are within the framework of the expenditure under para. 1 and cannot be redirected for other purposes. (6) The provisions of § 16, para. 1 and para. 2 of the transitional and final provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administration (prom., SG No. ...) do not apply to the increase in the number of staff of the Executive Agency
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u343	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 22. They voted 105 MPs: 75 against 30, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. For the purposes of this Agreement, the following definitions shall apply: 23, first the unsupported proposal of the MP Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Well, I asked if there were any speeches? I'm sorry, I closed the debate and we're voting on Mr. Svilensky's unsupported proposal. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria."]] We both read them one after the other. [[Noise and lines.]] Vote art. 23 The unsupported proposal of the National Representative Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs. Vote 107 MPs: 34 against 58 abstention 15. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for the unsupported proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. They voted 96 MPs: 15 against 60, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 23 on the Commission report. Vote 108 MPs: for 71, against 37, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Negative vote please, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u344	Thank you, Madam President. Unfortunately, you quickly overthrew Art. 23.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u345	Keep an eye on him, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u346	Yeah, we're tracking. Very quickly, I say, you beat up art. The budget of the Ministry of Agriculture. We cannot support this budget, because in it the four budgets of this government and GERB's Management Programme, related to sustainable, competitive and market-oriented agriculture, are in front of me. On the contrary, even in the opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture it is said that as regards the expenditure ceiling provided for the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry for 2021 and the following budgetary years, the part of the activities carried out and the commitments resulting from the government programme remain financially unsecured. With this budget Bulgaria will again be 50th place that even after 50th place in food security. A study that was done four years ago. Unfortunately, the management of GERB will again leave the vegetable producers, the livestock farmers, and the fruit trees without money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u347	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Mr. Abase, come in for a second negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u348	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers! Madam President, you put to the vote very quickly, art. 23. I couldn't deal with the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u349	Come on in now.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u350	...so I have to do it in the form of a negative vote. My parliamentary group and I voted against this budget because it again leaves several sectors underfunded in agriculture. These are the Food Agency, the Agricultural Academy, the Regional. The districts are the authority that is on the front line of the clash between farmers and the Ministry of Agriculture. That's where all the interests meet. They're like the first line with the COVID. Our offer was to have more money for them. Then our proposal was to have more money for the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, because they take care of national security in the form of health and safety of people as food, and they are also on the front line in relation to COVID-19. They're underfunded, too. The other underfunded sector is the Agricultural Academy, where habilitated individuals, high professionals, researchers hardly apply the Academy's scientific and applied programme, and, you know, on the new Common Agricultural Policy related to the Green Pact, we are obliged to pursue new technologies, to digitalization, to green technologies. Without the scientific thought, that's impossible. It is necessary in two minutes in the form of a negative vote, as I could not speak at the point, these were our proposals. With 25 million to increase the funds for the districts of Agriculture and Forests, municipal services; by 3 million to increase the budget of the Agricultural Academy; and by 5 million to increase the budget of the district of Irrigation Systems....which have a public commitment....to protect the population and lands from the harmful effects of the water....by maintaining for miles the Danube dikes, river dikes, drainage systems, and with this work contribute to the lives and health of the people and farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u351	Thank you, dear Mr. Abase. Procedure Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u352	Madam President, honourable Members! I am doing a procedure to extend today's plenary session to 20:00 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u353	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Come back, Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u354	Madam President, honourable Members! I suggest you take your time. To coordinate your actions a little while ago, because when we discussed it, we didn't really discuss the budget of the Ministry of Tourism, the Minister of Tourism was gone. Now came the Minister of Tourism for the budget of the Ministry of Sports. So, my point is to coordinate things a little bit, to rest a little and to work as we voted it out by 6:00 p.m. The other, which is.. colleagues who are online, and they will sleep, will be fresh in the morning and will be able to help you in listening to what the opposition is saying, so we have the opposite proposal: to work until the first extension, that is, until 6:00 p.m. and then have a regular meeting tomorrow. There's no point in hiding. What you will accept at night, the Bulgarian people will feel it negatively on their backs throughout the next year, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u355	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov. We will now vote first on Mr. Ivanov's proposal and if supported, I will not vote on your proposal. Please let Mr. Ivanov's voting regime work until 20 o'clock. Vote 109 MPs: 68, against 38, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u356	Under art. 24 there is a proposal of the MP Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 24 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in row II. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 350000. (b) in row 1. Ongoing expenditures. The number..322 379.10..is replaced by..352 (c) of row 1.2. Subsidies and other current transfers the number (d) of row 1.2.1. Subsidies and other current transfers to non-financial corporations the number (e) of row 1.2.1.1. for (e) of row III (f) of row 1. The number of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the European Union is replaced by the number of the budget of the budget of the European Union. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 24.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u357	Statements under art. 24? Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u358	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! The proposal we make in art. 24, it concerns subsidies and capital transfers to BDZ. The political party GERB has been promising Bulgarian citizens and BDZ for three or four years that after making the concession at Sofia airport, some 500 or 600 million. lv. will go to the Bulgarian State Railways to buy new trains. So three or four years the people of BDZ and Bulgarian citizens, and all of us expect funds to be bought and upgraded Bulgarian State Railways. You are trying for several years to say that rail transport is a priority in GERB policy, only that priorities are shown in the budget and in the policies that are being made. There is nowhere in this budget that railway transport is a priority for GERB and for the ruling majority, respectively "United patriots." You are proposing for the three years of the " 2021," 2022 and 2023. 217 million in total, provided that only a few years ago you stated that between 500 and 600 million were necessary. lv. There is no way to ask for developed rail transport, regular implementation of schedules, passenger service, without this thing being backed up by modernization of trains, modernization of locomotives and maintenance of railway infrastructure. Our proposal, honourable Members, is reasonable. I think that Mr. Ananiev would also support it, I see no reason not to add an additional 30 million to the capital transfer to BDZ, which is precisely for the purchase of new locomotives, new trains, which is essential. I don't know how many there are right now, but every day one engine stops working. This will affect the winter period and the schedules, the delays and the failure of the schedule of movements. Thank you. I'm really counting on serious and state-of-the-art behavior. There is no three years to say that rail transport is a priority, and in the budget this is not shown by any lev. Not a penny! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u359	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u360	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Svilensky, I am making a line for you in the form of which I will say that we will support your proposal. It makes sense, even though these funds are not enough. We have also made proposals to the Ministry of Transport, which are further down in art. 49, in the form of transfers and subsidies to increase the budget of the National Company I also hope that this will be supported because it is fully aimed at solving the problems in this sector. Only, Mr. Svilensky, you're wrong about one thing. We have been repeating for three years that rail transport should be a priority. The rulers did not say it was a priority and these funds were gone for three years when we made proposals for amendments to the State Budget Act and there to clearly say that the funds needed must go. We missed two programming periods in which we were unable to obtain the necessary funds so that we could have a normal development. Now we're talking about the same problems that last year, the past and so the last five years, they're the same. We have imposed this topic to be a priority because rail transport, the sector in general, is a priority both as part of the Development Plan and for the green deal of the whole of Europe and the whole world. Only in Bulgaria do we catch up again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u361	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Second line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u362	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Letifov, you are right, I cannot disagree with your line This was a priority of both our political power and your political power, but also the Transport Commission. We have repeatedly stated in the Commission that we are ready that we are here to help what is necessary for the development of the Bulgarian railways. You know that a plan was drawn up a few years ago for development, for the purchase of rolling stock. This plan never saw the light of day. The problem really is that in the Commission, there is one talking to the public about the Minister of Transport himself, and this and the former, saying that this should be a priority with the arguments that you have said, but in practice, now that it is the time to show that this is the priority of a given political force, it is not in the budget. There's no way you can say one thing all year and when you have to provide it financially, it's gone. I missed telling my colleagues: in 2024, honourable Members, the contract of Bulgarian State Railways expires as a public carrier. If they do not buy the new trains, the new locomotives, the new wagons, in 2024 a competition will be announced and another railway can come and drive the Bulgarian citizens. We, as responsible politicians, each of us is a representative of a region, must protect our Bulgarian carrier so that in 2024, when his contract expires, he shows up with the necessary rolling stock in the upcoming competitions. Mr. Ananiev, my request is really, if there is a chance that you can take an attitude, support or at least bear it in mind, I no longer know in your procedures how this matter can be resolved. This money is really necessary for Bulgarian State Railways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u363	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Any other speeches? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported text of Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs for art. 24. Vote 95 MPs: 29, against 50, abstention 16. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the text of the importer as art. 24. 97 MPs voted: 71, 26, abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u364	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 25. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 26.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u365	Statements? Here you go, Mrs. Lecheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u366	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will allow myself a few comments on the budget for the Ministry of Youth and Sports, although we do not have any proposals. We do not have any proposals made, because it is clear the fate of all our proposals for changes, including when your wish is requested, I mean the desire of the government to support certain proposals, they have the same fate to not be supported. I will allow myself these comments, because I have made them in the Commission, and I want to do them in this House. The fact is that this budget, as the minister said, is record, but this is due, first of all, to a regulatory change related to the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer - one, I would say, too late a decision, which cost very dearly to the Bulgarian taxpayers and which has damaged the budget of Bulgarian sport for many years. We should not be proud of these budget parameters because, compared to European statistics, we can say the following. As a percentage of gross domestic product, this budget is 0.078 and European practice and statistics, the European model is at least 1% of gross domestic product at far more serious levels of gross domestic product in the countries concerned. You can see that this does not represent much of a cause for pride. One of my accusations about this budget and in recent years, which I have made towards the policy of the Ministry, is precisely in terms of balance, the funds allocated to sport for excellence and sport for all. You are well aware of the so-called pyramid of sport, which means the formula for success, the formula for having winners in world Olympic championships is a broader basis for the pyramid, namely more investment in sports for everyone, in sports for students and in sports for students, in sports for young people, so that we can be crowned... You probably don't know, but next year it's Olympic, we'll have an Olympics, and our presence must be considerably better than the last few Olympiads, which shows a regression. What do I mean about balance? The ministry envisions nearly 60 million for a policy of excellence and 20 million according to its estimates for a sport policy for students. But this is too tricky because the sport for students includes the budget of all sports schools. If you do not know, let me tell you that the sport and activity of sports schools is related to high sports craftsmanship and this has nothing to do with mass sports and sports for students. The sport for leisure and sports for students and students, which is the basis of the sports pyramid and where all the countries of the European Union spend the most money, Bulgaria is spending today only 350 thousand. lv. Only 350,000. lv.! We have talked about this balance whenever it comes to discussing and adopting the budget of this ministry. Unfortunately, in recent years, I have seen no improvement and no change in this regard. There can be no successful participation in world European championships and Olympics without having enough reserve and without having a broad enough basis to work on. In addition, sport also means health for all our children. Unfortunately, I will also mention what you have been persistently refusing to accept over the years, and very strongly on our part, Order 129. Since the Minister of Sports is gone, but here is the Minister of Finance, he knows very well what this decree means. In our mandate with what we started, namely the update of Decree No 129, which concerns money and sports funds for all Bulgarian students and students in the country...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u367	Finish it, Mrs. Lecheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u368	...and it's worth a little more than 3 million. lv. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not be proud, but bear in mind what other European countries are following as policy and as objectives to congratulate tomorrow with health and success at Olympic Games and World Championships. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u369	Thank you, Mrs. Lecheva. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Chenchev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u370	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! A budget in the field of sport is proposed and here is the place to say, since for three years we have been listening to how BSP is not the alternative to implementing the different sectoral policies, to pay attention to the House that in its last year's alternative budget BSP has set a budget for sport for this year. It is already passing by, with the amount with which the budget is now increased for 2021. So now you're following what BSP offered you a year ago. You follow it well, but I also said in the Commission, and I will draw attention here to the honourable people's representation that I am worried about the fact that money is being given, as is being done in some of the sectors that are unreformed, and the consequences are disastrous, and this is being seen. Is it the same in sports? We're warning you it's gonna happen! As before me Mrs. Lecheva drew attention to the differences in different policies and students and sports in leisure and excellence, of course, and sport for young people. All of this, of course, has an indirect, even direct link to the policy for young people, where a national strategy ends. Now there is no next one for the next decade, and it is very important to see the analysis of the one that ends so that in the field of sport for young people we can draw the relevant conclusions, analyses and see where the gaps are. It is unnecessary here to give you data on the incidence of young people and worrying factors such as that every third Bulgarian child is prone or obese. Of course, we can't help but note that due to other factors and due to what happened in the field of gambling, the lottery will now give more money for the sport than its budget, about 63.. 64 million. lv. from the state budget that comes in, the rest to 97 is a lotto. I said in the Commission and I will repeat it here: I am also worried about something else in the programmes which are quite well funded, I would say, I am concerned about the effectiveness, their effectiveness of these programmes, as well as, of course, the control of their implementation, which is extremely important for young people. I think we should all feel responsible here, of course, we from the opposition will be watching for the spending of the funds, for the control of the programs, something which Mr. Krasen Kralev, the Minister of Sports promised me in the last Commission. For the last time, I'm worried about the fact that more money is being poured into an unreformed sector. The sport sector must undergo reforms and we will, of course, give our alternatives where they should be. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u371	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. The Quaestors, please invite the MPs to the Chamber. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 25. Vote 88 MPs: 66, against 20, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote art. The Commission shall submit to the European Parliament and to the Council a report on the implementation of this Regulation. Vote 89 MPs: for 73, against 16, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Angelova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u372	Under art. 27 has a proposal of the MP Maria Tsvetkova: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 27 the following amendments shall be made: 2.1. in row II. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 350000. 2.1.1. in row 1. The current cost is equal to the number 4 268,6 is replaced by the number 2 268,6 ( -2 000) and is replaced by the number 2 268,6 ( -2 000); 2.1.1.1 of row 2.2. of row III. The number "switches' is replaced by "switches' (two thousand,0); 2.2.1. in row 1. "Budget relations with the central budget" (the number "4 348,6") is replaced by "2 348,6" (-2 The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 27.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u373	Thank you. Statements? Mr. Nedyalkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u374	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I suggest that we support this proposal by the United Patriarchs, which reduces the budget of the so-called brief Committee on Files, by 46 per cent. I believe that this committee has already... Last year, I made a proposal that the Commission's budget be zero, but let there be some reduction anyway, so that in this committee they can already prepare their extensive materials for the transmission of history to the people who dealt with close and more distant history and thus enrich the funds of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u375	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Maria Tsvetkova and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u376	Vote 95 MPs: 22, Against 14, abstention 59. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 27. Vote 95 MPs: 76 against 16, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u377	Under art. 28 there is a proposal of the MP Maria Tsvetkova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 28 the following amendments shall be made: 3.1. of row II The cost of the number 3.1.1. in row 1. Current expenditures the number ssssq.974,0ssq. is replaced by sq.453,6sq. ( -1 520.6) ; 3.1.1.1 of row 1.1. Staff the number s "2 243,4" is replaced by "722,8" (-1 520,6). 3.2. of row III Budgetary relationships (transfers) the number 3.2.1.in line 1. A budget relationship with the central budget is replaced by the number..3 174,0..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 28.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u378	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the unsupported proposal for art. 28 MPs Maria Tsvetkova and a group of MPs. Vote 97 MPs: 8 against 44 abstention 45. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 28, supported by the Commission. They voted 91 MPs: 66, against 18, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u379	Under art. 29 of the importer has a proposal of the National Representative Maria Tsvetkova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 29 the following amendments shall be made: 4.1. of row II The cost of the number 4.1.1. in row 1. Current expenditures the number s -2 970,6' is replaced by -1 970,6' ( -1 000,0) ; 4.1.1.1 of row 1.1. Staff the number "supplier 2 336,6" is replaced by "supplier 1 336,6" (-1 000,0). 4.2. of line III Budgetary relationships (transfers) the number 4.2.1. in row 1. A budget relationship with the central budget is replaced by the number....................................................................................................................................................... The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 29.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u380	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the unsupported proposal for art. 29 of Ms. Maria Tsvetkova and a group of MPs. 90 MPs voted: 17 against 47, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. I am now putting to the vote the text of the carrier for art. 29. Vote 84 MPs: 68, against 10, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u381	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 30. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 31. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 32. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 33. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 34. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 35. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 36. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 37. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 38. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 39. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 40.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u382	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the texts of the importer from art. 30 to art. 40 including those supported by the Commission. Vote 96 MPs: 79 against 17, no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u383	Under art. 41 At importer there is a proposal of the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 41: Art. 41. (1) adopt the budget of the Financial Supervision Commission for 2021 as follows: according to a table. (2) Confirms the allocation of the costs under para. 1 in functional areas as follows: according to table. (3) Confirms the maximum amounts of expenditure commitments that may be committed in 2021 and the maximum amounts of new expenditure obligations that may be accumulated in 2021 by the Financial Supervision Commission as follows: The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 42. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 43. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 44. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 45. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 46. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 47. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 48.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u384	That's it. Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 41 on the Commission report and the text of the importer from Articles 42 to 48 including, supported by the Commission. They voted 99 MPs: 78, against 6, abstention 15. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u385	Under art. 49 of the importer has a proposal of the National Representative Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 49, para. 1 in the table, the following amendments shall be made: 1. Row two. For the carriage of passengers on non-profitable bus lines in inland transport and transport in mountain and other regions, the number 2. On the line All the number The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 49, para. 1 and para. 2 the following changes are made: In para. 1 row 2. For the carriage of passengers on non-profit lines in inland transport and transport in mountain areas and other regions, the number In para. 1 line "Everything" is replaced by the number "237 000," "0" is replaced by the number "241 000," "0" is replaced by the number "241 000." In para. 2 line 2 In para. 2 Section P, row Everything is replaced by the number......407 471.0.. is replaced by the number....472 471 The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 49: Art. 49. (1) Accepts subsidies and other current transfers to non-financial corporations from the central budget for 2021 as follows, according to Table: (2) Accepts capital transfers to non-financial corporations from the central budget for 2021, as follows, according to Table.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u386	That's it. Statements? Mr. Letifov, then Mrs. Lecheva. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u387	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, our proposal in art. 49, para. 1 and 2 starts with the first increase in the subsidy for the transport of passengers by non-profitable lines in inland transport and transport in mountain and other areas by 4 million. lv. And the second increase is the capital transfer to the National Railway Infrastructure company by 65 million. BGN, which is underfinancing, given that NRIC needs about 220 million. lv. an annual transfer in order to be able to complete in the period 2021, 2022 and 2023 its large infrastructure sites. With our offer there, it's 205 million. BGN, which is again underfinancing, but the increase of 65 million. lv. will enable the National Company to maintain this schedule for the implementation and completion of these large infrastructure sites, for which we commented with Mr. Svilenski in art. 24. I hope for support for our proposals. Firstly, because uncostable lines in small towns are severely affected with regard to transport. A large part of them have partial problems with transport and others do not have transport at all. So this little increase in subsidy will help municipalities risk and maintain their transport schedule. And the other is to help the National Railway Infrastructure Company to finish these important sites, to really maintain the national rail transport, and the company as a whole. Otherwise, there will be an end to death. This will indeed be an attitude with which we will say that yes, this rail transport is a priority. And not only that, we need to develop it more to meet the expectations of both Bulgarian citizens and the time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u388	Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mrs. Lecheva had declared, then Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u389	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! And I would like to draw attention to this extremely difficult and I would say now a chronic problem for small municipalities and small towns. The fact is that for many years these settlements have been experiencing enormous difficulties with regard to public transport, which they can offer to their citizens. This is, of course, clear because of the non-retentability and losses that private carriers experience and suffer and do not wish to participate and apply when competitions are announced by the municipalities. This, of course, deprives the Bulgarian citizens living there to be able to use public transport when they need to use health services. You know that in small towns and small municipalities there are neither health centers nor hospitals, nor pharmacies, and these people are forced to wait sometimes in the week the only transport that can take them to the municipal centers. I can say that one of the reasons, except that this activity is not subsidized enough by the state, but is also not sufficiently clean the mechanism on which this service is provided, and many municipalities who wish to provide this service to citizens are forced to act on the edge. I will say about a municipality in Veliko Tarnovo District.. Polski Trumpesh municipality, which wanted and made this possible service to its fellow citizens from the settlements, by making a municipal enterprise so that all citizens can feel good and comfortable, have access to the municipal center and access to the district center, but this, again, is on the edge. You propose to increase the subsidy by 1 million for this activity. BGN, but it's extremely insufficient. Our proposal is to increase this subsidy by 25 million and it will be extremely insufficient to satisfy all the needy, to say that only for Veliko Tarnovo district is not enough. All of Northern Bulgaria is experiencing this deficit and all settlements and small municipalities experience this deficit in terms of transport connections between settlements. Ladies and gentlemen, we're spending money on all sorts of planes and ships, and I'm sorry to say this, but it's a fact. We leave without rights and without access to basic services our population, our fellow citizens living in small municipalities.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u390	Thank you, Mrs. Lecheva. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Svilensky, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u391	Thank you, Madam President, Members of the National Assembly! I will comment on two of the proposals. One of them belongs to colleague Menda Stoyanova for an additional 1 million in the pen Mrs. Stoyanova, today is a nice match when we look at the budget, outside the morning the carriers protested. [[Reply from the National Representative Manoil Manev.]] They protested the illegal shipments, but, honourable Members, one of the transparants was: Why are 100 municipalities without public transport?............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The necessary funds for these lines, honourable Members, are between 60 and 70 million. lv. by reference to the Ministry of Transport. I regret that the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Home Affairs are not here today, but the necessary funds are 60 The Ministry of Transport each year pays 50% of what is needed, i.e. around 30 million, only the planing principle of the following year is based on paid funds from the previous one. And if we don't stop this vicious principle of payment, we'll get there next year or later when it's going to be 15 million, then they stop the legal carriers and start working the illegal carriers. The reason is not only that it's not criminalized, the reason is that you're creating conditions for an unauthorised transport. When is there an unauthorized transport? When there is no regulation, when a bus travels Monday, Wednesday and Friday between a populated area, but not every Monday and not every Wednesday, illegal carriers begin to travel in its place. When there are no legal carriers between Sofia and Pernik, the illegal carriers start with the routers that stand at the Ruski Monument and drive. So, when you're struggling with illegal shipments, don't just fight through the Penal Code and just put people in jail. Fight by creating conditions for regulated, for regular, for comfortable transport, for a transport with which people can go to the pharmacy, to be able to go shopping, to be able to live a normal life. Because in a few weeks, we're probably gonna be watching the Commercial Shipping Act again and you're still gonna want to criminalize, and you're still gonna play with the carriers outside, but the carriers know they have a problem, they want the solution here in this room. The solution, I say again, is not only criminalisation, the solution in this room is to create conditions for these carriers to work and to pay them what they have worked, not to work without being paid. Our proposal is: an additional 25 million. lv. Of 31 million to 56. I say again, with a minimum of 60 to 70 million. The DPS proposal is only 4 million very modest. We will support him, too, but it is extremely insufficient, Mr. Letifov. If you really want to fight, honourable Members, and illegal transportation, and provide transportation to our compatriots in the hard-to-reach, remote, high-mountain settlements, support the proposal, otherwise it is hypocrisy. It's hypocritical to say that Svilenski and the president are guilty of unauthorized transportation. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] It's not Svilenski and the president who's guilty of unauthorized transportation. Guilty is the ruling majority, which creates a condition to have regulated transports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u392	Thank you. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u393	Madam President, honourable Members! The state budget is precisely in this part, which we are currently discussing and considering, shows once again that budget 2021 lacks any policy and care for citizens. Not only is the fight against unregulated transport not to be resolved with the lack of funds, but there is no way with these funds that you have proposed and will most likely approve, to overcome the consequences of the crisis. Because, and Mr. Svilenski, I will also address him, not only because of the illegal transport will reduce those companies carrying citizens between the towns, but also because of the Lockdown you have imposed now, as of today, because people will stop traveling. This means that these companies must receive a normal and adequate attitude from the state. The proposal, which was made by BSP, is an adequate response to the needs of all these companies, who will feel as early as Saturday in lack of funds due to the lack of passengers, because they have nowhere to travel. We are closing the country, and at the same time we are not paying attention to this lack, this shortage that they will experience and which they have been experiencing since March. Because when we have spoken since the introduction of the emergency situation that we need the state in an adequate way to respond to all these inconveniences that they experience, because they are not inconvenient, well they are already facing bankruptcy, real bankruptcy these companies, now we have to show attitude, and the attitude is not in any way. Because one million. lv. it will not solve these problems in the most ill sectors, such as transport and, in particular, transport between small settlements. Dear colleagues, you have a unique chance to support our proposal at the moment, which, I admit, does not even have a third to solve the problems, but will at least give a breath of air to transport companies in these settlements where people wonder how to get from one stop to another. And it's normal, without wondering why taxis and any other forms of uncontrolled transport will bloom and flourish. They cannot be competitive because they will not receive the necessary support from the State. Now is the time for this thing to happen. So, colleagues, we remain on your conscience to read our proposal once again and support it, because otherwise it will weigh on your shoulders the bankruptcy of all these transport companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u394	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? I can't see. Statements? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs. They voted 102 MPs: 34 against 48, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. They voted 100 MPs: 26, against 53, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 49 on the Commission report. They voted 103 MPs: for 73, against 30, there is no abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u395	Under art. 50 by importer there is a proposal of the National Representative Dora Yankova: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 50 in the table, the following amendments shall be made in section Smolyan region: 1. of line Baths the number - Five hundred thousand. lv. For municipal roads and streets in the settlements in Banite municipality; - One million. lv. For the replacement of the internal plumbing and sewerage network in the village of Davidkovo; - Five million. lv. For the construction of the inter-communal road Baths Vishnevo - Galabovo - Slivka. 2. of row Devin the number In row Devin, the number "sixteen' is replaced by "sixteen' in column 5 by "sixteen' for winter maintenance. 3. of line Dospat the number 4. of row Zlatograd the number Zlatograd, stage two, 18 million. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 5. in row Madan, the number - Two million. lv. For construction of municipal roads near the village of Koupen, Garbina, Kasap; - Three million. lv. For the construction of Svetlina Str. "Mladost", "Izvor" and "March 3rd" street in Madan and neighboring villages; 6. in row "Sundayino', the number "sixteen and six' is replaced by "six': - Ten million. lv. For the construction of sewerage and treatment plant of the town of Nedelino. 7. of row - Two million. lv. For the municipal roads in Rudozem, Elhovets, Vitina, Polyana; - Five million. lv. For leading sewerage from the Elhovsko and the Chepinska trough to the treatment plant of the municipality of Rudozem; - 2.5 million. lv. A sports hall in the village of Chepintsi. 8. of line..Smolyan. the number..2 403.5. in column 6 is replaced by the number..18 - Ten million. lv. For the construction of an international road village of Mugla, the town of Smolyan; - Five million. lv. on the completion of the streets in the settlements and the town of Smolyan Босилек, ул. "Despot Slavs," ul. "No. 22", village of Vlahovo and others.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - 1.5 million. lv. For the creation of an exhibition to a public collection (History and development of the illusionist art in Bulgaria) in the village of Momchilovtsi, Smolyan municipality. 9. of row - Four million. lv. For streets and municipal roads in the villages of Hvoyna, Pavelsko, Zornitsa, Malevo and Orehovo; - 21 million. lv. For the construction of road II.. Tour of the town of Chepelare.................................................................................................................. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Dora Hristova and group: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 50 in the table, the following amendment shall be made in Section Plovdiv: In row "Sopot', the number "solot' is replaced by "Solot' in column 2 and the number "Scot' is replaced by "Scot' in column 6 is replaced by "Scot'. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposed by MP Mustafa Karadaye and group: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 50 the following changes shall be made: 7.1. In the Burgas district section: - of row Aitos, column 6 - of row Rouen, column 6 7.2. In the Pazardzhik district section: - in row "Batatak', column 6 "Field subsidy for capital expenditure', the number "Batatak' is replaced by the number "1 365,20'; - of row "Velingrad', column 6 "Field of capital expenditure', the number "Support of 887,10' is replaced by the number "Support of 3 207,10'; - of row "Rakitovo", column 6 "Rachitovo" is replaced by the number "Rachitovo" 4416,50. 7.3. In the section of the District of Pleven: - the main budgetary relationships, the number of the main budgetary relationships, the number of the number of the total budget relations, the number of the number of the total contribution for the activities delegated by the State, the number of the total contribution for the activities delegated by the State, the number of the total amount of the total contribution for the activities delegated by the State, the number of the total contribution for the total amount of the total contribution for the total contribution of the total contribution for the activities delegated by the State. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 50.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u396	Are there any speeches? Mr. Kichikov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u397	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, the widespread crisis caused by COVID 19 and the restrictions that were imposed on whole sectors of the business have had a negative impact on the municipalities' own revenues, and the situation is even worse, and in some it is already critical. Unfortunately, as is apparent from the proposals of our attention budget, Bulgarian municipalities are placed in an unenviable position. Their legislative obligations for the services they provide to citizens are not sufficiently financially secured, but the decentralisation that we talk about every year at this time does not happen and remains as a wish on paper. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we believe that the funds laid down in column 6 of the table, the target subsidy for capital expenditure, are extremely insufficient and we do not see how the needs of municipalities for construction, rehabilitation and maintenance of the road network will be met. We have concrete proposals related to the allocation of additional funds for capital expenditure for the municipalities of Batak, Velingrad and Rakitovo. For the municipality of Batak, we propose that the increase of 1 million. Thirty-nine thousand. BGN, including major repairs, reconstruction of asphalt flooring, reconstruction and replacement of plumbing, construction of plumbing and sewerage in the three settlements of the municipality, namely the town of Batak and the villages Nova mahala and Fotino. For Velingrad municipality, we propose the increase to be 2 million. 320 thousand. lv. This amount includes the repair and rehabilitation of streets in the villages Draginovo, Saint Petka, Pashovi, Kandovi, Butreva, Dolna Dubeva, Alendarova, Yundola and Velingrad itself. Colleagues, we also propose that with some of the amount of asphalt the streets of the municipal road network, which are currently literally black, forest roads, and never before have asphalt been laid on them. These are the roads of the villages of Ablanitsa. For the municipality of Rakitovo we propose the increase to be 3 million. 900,000. BGN, as these funds will be used to build a bridge and run plumbing and sewerage for construction of a sports site. The activities and the sites cover all three settlements of the municipality of Rakitovo, Kostandovo and the village of Dorkovo. Currently, all the above-mentioned streets are heavily compromised in areas missing, and almost non-existent sidewalks. After their renovation will significantly improve the well-being and standard of living in the settlements. Dear colleagues, I call you for reason in the vote because in the small towns of European Bulgaria there are people who are correct, conscientious citizens and taxpayers and who have the same needs and needs as those who live in large cities. I call on you to support these proposals, because the National Assembly is the place where these decisions should be taken and not in the prime minister's jeep. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u398	Thank you, Mr. Kichikov. - What's the line? I can't see. Here you are, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u399	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! For the fourth time in a row, I make almost the same proposals for municipalities in Smolyan region. I cannot deny that public road policy is progressing. As a parliamentary group for a reason in art. 1 We offered them, and with my participation, but the municipal roads are in extremely poor condition........ the roads between the settlements. After all, if we have to say that the potential of the region is tourism and logging, this means intercommunal roads. In parallel to this, the philosophy of our proposal is to replace internal plumbing networks. We all know that these are etherite tubes, and when the waterworks deal with large water projects, they can't spare resources to invest it. In parallel, there are no funds for small settlements to replace the plumbing network. This is my proposal for the municipality of Banite for municipal roads and for the replacement of a plumbing and sewer network. The colleague before that read it specifically. For the municipality of Devin for the first time a question is raised by the municipal council to increase the funds for winter maintenance. This is where I draw the attention of the Minister of Finance who is arriving. I hope that it will pay attention, as after Smolyan municipality the municipality is the largest, hardest supporting winter roads, and in parallel, the emphasis is also on tourism. For the municipality of Zlatograd, the key project, which is already ready and designed in detail, is for the construction of the geothermal heating system in Zlatograd. If Zlatograd decides this project, colleagues, this could be included in the reconstruction fund, which is being commented, but I am making an announcement from the National Assembly's stands: the Municipality of Zlatograd will have the opportunity to collect the people who work abroad and to give another quality of life and in parallel development for Zlatograd. Proposal for the ring road of the municipality of Chepelare. You can't do it with 400,000. BGN, which are for alienating the ring road, not to be able to build and develop the potential of Chepelare municipality itself as a resort village. In parallel, I suggest the philosophy of why we were offering again projects related to water and sewers in the municipality of Nedelino for the construction of sewerage and treatment plant in the city itself. The river itself is a building factor, and the problems of lack of sewerage are also created with regard to the environment. That is why it is impossible to get the attention of the National Assembly and the Minister of Finance through the budget of the state at the moment. The Municipality of Rudozem has built a treatment plant on ISPA and the leading sewers on the Elkhovska and the Chepinska trough cannot rob what is necessary to enter the treatment plant itself. It is used only by the city of Rudozem, and there is potential in the treatment plant.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u400	We're doing it right now!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u401	Oh, my God! In Smolyan municipality, the hardest road is the Mugla road, which is almost equal to the maintenance of this road and the construction of the Shipka Pass. As the opportunities of the municipality are to be able to manage the other roads, but this is extremely difficult and therefore I draw attention to the road Mugla The internal network is a city that is young at 60 years old, and I have indicated some of the streets that need to be discovered. There is a new initiative which is to create an exhibition of public collection, history and development of the illusionist art in Bulgaria. The other proposals for the other municipalities are related to municipal roads, water supply and this really shows the need that money is needed for targeted impact, for water and for municipal roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u402	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Are there lines? Mr. Ally, you're making a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u403	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The DPS Parliamentary Group shall propose in art. 50, Department of Regional Burgas. The target subsidy for the municipality of Rouen to increase by 2 million. lv. and this additional amount to be spent for the annexation of classrooms and service rooms, as well as for a closed sports playground to an existing secondary school..Dimitar Polyanov. in the village of Tranak, located in Bourgas district, municipality of Rouen. In connection with the new Pre-school and School Education Act adopted from 1 August 2016 the primary school of Dimitar Polyanov in the village of Tranak was converted into a united one and from the next academic year 2018/2019. In high school from 1st to 12th grade. A project proposal was introduced to the Ministry of Education and Science by the mayor of Rouen after 7th grade in the academic year 2021/2022, with the corresponding entry number for the building of classrooms serving rooms and a closed sports site, which unfortunately was not approved for reasons unknown to us. With its transformation, the secondary school of Dimitar Polyanov provided the opportunity for all young people and girls from the villages in the region of the village of Tranak, including those who are the most interested in dropping out for financial reasons, to complete their secondary education in close proximity to their home school. This, honourable colleagues, is especially important not only for students from the villages of Karavelovo, Socolica and Shelka, but also for students from the surrounding small settlements, such as the villages Straya, Dobromir, Dropla, Dashkotna, Vishna and Yasenovo, for which it is also the closest secondary school. Ladies and gentlemen, in the current school year 2020 - 2021, 299 students from first to eleventh grade from 10 settlements are trained in 15 classes. As of the next 2021, a school year is to be planned for two further classes of the VIII class, for which there is virtually no way to provide premises at this stage. The second proposal, honourable Members, of the DPS parliamentary group in art. 50, concerning the district of Burgas, is the target subsidy for the municipality of Aytos to increase by 2 million. lv. and this additional amount to be spent for reconstruction of the municipal road I-6.. Aitos.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, we are talking about the construction of an infrastructure project of the municipal road Aytos.... Karageorgievo....topolitsa, which the municipality of Aytos has prepared a technical project and is undoubtedly one of the priorities of the local authorities. The first stage of this important project for the residents of Aytos Municipality was implemented in 2014, with the main renovation of one of the most important municipal roads in the municipality of Aytos financed with the support of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. lv. from the Republican budget. The project, honourable Members, is particularly important because it serves the inhabitants of five settlements, namely: Karageorgievo, Topolitsa, Chernograd, Raklinovo and Polyanovo, with nearly 3500 people in total. The traffic along the road section is pretty intense. In addition, the road is narrow and it is necessary to expand, thus ensuring better traffic safety. Dear colleagues, from the parliamentary group of the DPS, we believe that the expositions are really justified and fully justified and we rely on your support for providing financial resources for the building fund of the secondary school in the village of Tranak, located in the municipality of Rouen, and for the reconstruction of the municipality road Aitos. Finally, we offer 19 additional subsidised units for the Military History Museum in Pleven, which welcomes over 200,000 visitors per year. This is necessary for their normal functionality, honourable colleagues, yet the Ministry of Culture does not care about the problems of the museum. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u404	Thank you, Mr. Ali. Are there lines? I can't see. Statements? Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u405	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! I take the floor to explain why I will personally vote against this text of importers, which will most likely be approved. First of all, I would like to congratulate the enthusiasm of colleague Dora Yankova and colleagues from DPS, who are not tired year after year to submit the same proposals to municipalities, which are, of course, rejected here. I personally got tired of every year my voice and the voice of the voters from the region from which I was elected to be a voice in the desert, because you here in this room year after year are neglecting the problems of municipalities, neglecting the problems of the small settlements to which the state treats as a stepmother. Because in this crisis, which is raging in the country and not only in the country, but in the whole world since March, the most victims, especially in part of Bulgaria, are the municipalities. They have incurred their costs, lost their revenues, which, for the most part, go to cover their capital expenditure, but the State has in no way treated them as legal entities that must receive the necessary respect. Unfortunately, the wicked practice that needs and who finds a loophole continues to wait on the carpet in front of the Council of Ministers or the Minister of Finance in a way that no one is officially aware of how money is received by a decision of the Council of Ministers. Because this is a vicious practice and deprives the MPs of the right to protect the interests of their constituents and here to protect their projects, to protect the projects of municipalities that need to present them and to be financed directly through the state budget. This vicious practice, we honourable Members, have tried to interrupt it several times during a change in the Public Finance Act, but alas, the ruling majority has once again remained silent and deaf on the subject. For this reason, my fellow Members and I will vote against this text, because it does not meet objective reality, does not meet the need for municipalities to experience their urgent capital needs costs, winter cleaning, if you will, and anything else so that they can, together with all those in need, overcome this severe crisis, which will become even more severe in the coming months, given the situation that is in the country. Once again, the state has shown itself to be a stepmother for one and a mother for another, because in some sectors billions are poured out, and other sectors are simply forgotten, and if they get the favor of the jeep, they will get money if they don't get it, they won't get money. For this reason, honourable Members, I will vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u406	Thank you. - What's the line? Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Dora Yankova. They voted 103 MPs: 32, against 44, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. I now put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Dora Hristova and a group of MPs. They voted 101 MPs: 11 against 41, abstention 49. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. They voted 99 MPs: 24, against 49, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. Negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u407	Mr. Chairman, I am taking advantage of my right to a negative vote to explain why I have not personally supported the proposals of the DPS. Not because they are not correct, not because the municipalities and the citizens of these municipalities do not need the funds to improve their lives, but because the DPS does, as well as the BSP, of course, proposals which three people voted on in the Chamber by their parliamentary group. So they make them without protecting them. It is not normal to vote on the second day of the state budget, both small and the entire group of the DPS to be two people. And then they explain to their voters: we offered Where are you when you suggested it, to vote it out? Three people! [[DPS lines.]] That is why I voted against it, and I will continue because you are lying to people. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u408	Thank you. I will now put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 50. Vote 112 MPs: 82 against 30, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u409	Dear Mr. Chairman, on behalf of the BSP parliamentary group, I propose a 30-minute break.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u410	I get it. Fifteen minutes off. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u411	Colleagues, please take your seats. We are continuing our work. Mrs. Ilieva........................................................................................... 51.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u412	Article 51 by importer. Proposal of the MP Alexander Nikolaev Sabanov. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 51, in the column "Community administration" in the transfers of municipalities with the number of municipal councilors over 16 members of the Municipal Council and in relation to art. 28a of ZMSMA, release 10,000. lv. to each of the said municipalities for placing into service and maintenance of an electronic remote voting system. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Maria Yordanova Tsvetkova and a group of MPs. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 51 the following amendments shall be made: ..5.1. in row Everything, in column "Costs for State-sponsored activities', the number 4 332 483.6 is replaced by 4 333 843.6 (+1 360,0) ; 5. 2. of row All, in column "Custody', the number 151 118,9 is replaced by 152 478,9 (+1 360,0). The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Dora Ilieva Yankova. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 51 in the table, the following amendments shall be made to section Smolyan: "1." in row Borino, the number s. 1 143.3s. in column 4 is replaced by the number s. 2 143.3s. 1 million. lv. For multimedia equipment of 3 classrooms; laptops for 10 students and 18 teachers; installation of laminate in 10 classrooms and furniture with new desks, chairs and student boards in the school. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 51.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u413	Thank you. Statements? Mr. Sabanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u414	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! The proposal for each of the municipalities with more than 16 members of the municipal council to have an electronic remote voting system. We think it's an antique measure. We do not know how much longer the pandemic will last, and in the end, such additional support to municipalities with amounts that will buy such a remote control will help them not to gather in one place, not to make a congregation, as they say at Christmas, not to become infected. So I think this proposal is also in the spirit of the present time. I hope his colleagues will support him. I think that in the measures that the government takes, it can also find a place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u415	Thank you. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? You have the floor, Mr. Bogdanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u416	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! In Bulgaria there is a unique institution called Bulgarian Chitalishte. It originated during Turkish slavery and is one of the most prominent manifestations of emancipation of the Bulgarian people, of its cultural and national ascension in those times. It is the Chitalishtes that account for the emergence of almost all cultural institutions that are in Bulgaria at this time: galleries, libraries, museums and so on. Unfortunately, it seems that these institutions, especially the Chitalishtes in small towns, do not receive enough funds and cannot function fully. In fact, their importance is unique in our time, as unlike perhaps all the Member States of the European Union and the other countries of Europe, where there is not a single cultural institution in small towns, in Bulgaria there are Chitalishtes and they carry out some activity that is very human and which gives people the opportunity to touch the achievements of culture, albeit of a lonely nature, even in smaller settlements and villages. That's why we're making an offer. We see that what is set by the Ministry of Finance in the budget for culture in terms of expenditure for activities delegated by the State, in the column "City" concerning the funds received by the municipalities, but we also propose to increase not only by 10% these funds, as the 10% increase in wages is not enough for this activity in our view. The Chitalishtes don't get the state's money for business. They receive only for the remuneration of the relevant secretary, librarian or if there are other employees, but for activity, especially in smaller settlements, where municipalities do not have the opportunity to finance this activity of the Chitalishtes for any events for their cultural calendar, they do not have any means to do so. We must absolutely do it on their own, on good faith and in most cases this hinders the normal functioning of the Chitalishte institutions. In conclusion, I just want to say that when discussing this issue again, once again, we encountered that, see, there was no need for much increase, because in the cities of Sofia, or larger cities, artificial Chitalishtes were created, only to have some numbers to be assigned to work and receive some funds. Dear colleagues, in the big cities there are institutions that are engaged in cultural activity.. many different, diverse, and people can receive their cultural product from there, which they expect. But in small settlements it is the only place that can touch the Bulgarian culture or the achievements of world culture. Therefore, I think we should support the Bulgarian community center not only as an historically important cultural entity, but also as something that has its place in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u417	Thank you. - What's the line? Any other speeches? Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u418	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm proposing to Borino village and here the offer is for the school in Borino village. On my visit to the village, which is a municipal center, I was impressed by the director with surprise that there is a need for multimedia equipment for three classrooms, laptops for 10 students and 18 teachers and modest repairs for the installation of laminate in the 10 rooms, as well as furniture, the desks are if you visit, colleagues, school. The real environment in which children study is also education. I drew the attention of the Minister of Education, but I decided to write it here too, because in the end what I propose is an increase in art. 51, column 4, where it's for education. Again, Mr. Chairman, I would like editorial and protocol to record that my proposal is for the school in the village of Borino. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u419	Thank you. - What's the line?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u420	I'm sorry, I'm just gonna use my time. I would like to support colleague Bogdanov's proposal for the Chitalishtes. It is extremely important because in the end of this crisis, in which the Bulgarian people have fallen, the spirit is held, above all, in the small settlements of the Chitalishtes. And my observation is not only in our area that there is one rise and it must be supported because they are the center of Bulgarianity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u421	Thank you. Are there lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see either. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Alexander Sabanov. They voted 113 MPs: 36, against 13, abstention 64. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Maria Tsvetkova. They voted 108 MPs: 35 against 13, 60 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Dora Yankova. They voted 110 MPs: 16 against 40, abstention 54. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 51. They voted 115 MPs: 92, against 21, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u422	Articles 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57 and 58 The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the following Articles.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u423	Statements? I can't see. I'm going to vote. I put to the vote the following texts of the Draft Law to Articles 52 to 58, including. They voted 113 MPs: for 96, against 17, no abstentions. The texts put to the vote have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u424	Under art. 59 has a proposal of the MP Iskren Vasilev Veselinov and a group of MPs: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 59 the following amendments and additions are made: ♪ A. ♪ the current text becomes para. 1 B. The creation of para. 2: . (2) Confirms a total annual quota for the provision of holiday vouchers under art. 59, para. 1, t. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Georgi Strahilov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The 59th number The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 59. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 60. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 61. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 62.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u425	To art. 62 including.. statements? Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u426	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! With art. 59 of the budget shall be approved annual quota for vouchers. The debate on vouchers was only a week ago when we were looking at changes in tax laws before the adoption of the budget. Realizing the social importance of such an instrument as the food vouchers are, then we from the parliamentary group of BSP to Bulgaria The proposal was not to tax the social costs provided in the form of food vouchers to each employee up to 100 BGN. monthly and not as it is now up to BGN 60 monthly. Unfortunately, the majority rejected this not bad from a social point of view proposal. I am not going to bring the debate back again about how useful the food vouchers are, not because it bothers me to have it again, but because I believe that the people in this room are convinced of their usefulness, but only the party stubborn forces them to oppose it. Why don't you support our proposals I don't know. I have no explanation, but I am sure you understand that the provision of food vouchers is the most preferred method used by companies in Bulgaria to provide additional monthly income to employees and are an essential part of the social policy of these employers. They are a tool for motivation and retention of staff. You are aware that this tool increases the purchasing power of the employees, optimizes the employer's costs and enables traders to increase their turnover, all things that must be the goals of managers, whoever they are. You are aware that the use of food vouchers will expand and more companies and employers will be willing to take advantage of this social instrument. If the legislator somehow impedes this expansion, it is not very social. We therefore propose today with the 2021 budget to set an annual quota for food vouchers of 488 million, i.e. 188 million more than last year and 138 million more than proposed in the Budget Project. By the way, the Budget Project also envisions an increase in quotas, only by only 30 million. lv. This proposal is again in the direction of expanding the scope of food vouchers, only this time in the direction of enlargement among a larger number of employers. These proposals by the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria to expand the scope of vouchers with one employer and an increase in the total annual quota for providing vouchers for food from the state budget are entirely for the benefit of the employees and are supported by both trade unions and employers, I do not know why they are not supported by the state. Furthermore, our proposals are time-resistant and led by the belief that food vouchers are a good social tool, it is necessary to increase their scope every year. I take this opportunity to address the MPs from the group of the United Patriarchs with the call to support our proposal, all the more so that in the previous debates on the discussion of tax laws there was a similar proposal from them. That would hurt a fissure, if you could talk about harm at all, because it wouldn't occur anywhere around 13.8 million. BGN, i.e. they will not enter into the budget from their taxation of total income, but instead they will enter into turnover immediately, they will directly enter into turnover because there is no way to save them. And now my call is: let's show a little more concern and social responsibility to those who create the good in our country. So far, I have finished with the vouchers, and I would like to say my personal attitude and opinion on the issue of the proposals of my colleagues from the "United patriots" for the holiday vouchers. I will support it, perhaps you should think a lot more about its implementation, but this as a way of some social gain towards workers is a good decision and I will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u427	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u428	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! I take the floor to protect the proposal of the United Patriarchs to actually introduce a new type of voucher. I believe that our country in this regard is even lagging behind against the background of countries such as Romania, Slovenia and others, which have long introduced this type of voucher. It is an opportunity for the employer to pay outside the remuneration of the employee concerned an amount by which he can pay activities described in art. 3 of the Tourism Act. We are talking not only about resort trips, we are talking here that, including in establishments registered under the Tourism Act, it will be possible to pay. The idea of this measure is, on the one hand, social, as the previous colleague said, and this is a good asset for the workers. On the other hand, however, the idea also has a healthy economic sense, because practically people who would receive such vouchers are representatives of the Bulgarian middle class people who often prefer to fly in places outside the Bulgarian resorts and thus export national income. We think that this approach will be a strong motive for these people to stay either on the Bulgarian Black Sea coast or on our other resorts. In fact, the additional contribution they would have made to their holiday, that is, the money they would have spent out of their own pocket, outside the vouchers supported by the State, will compensate for many times what the state is actually deprived of in the form of corporate tax. What they report in Romania as positive is almost 3 to 1, that is to say for a lev given by the state, almost three leva two and seventy I think was the right amount, is provided by the voucher. Naturally, this compensates for the repeatedly saved corporate tax, as we are talking about the action that will bring together the state and the profit that will form the other party, respectively, a tourist service operator. Here we must add, of course, that in this case we also have special care for the tourism sector, as it is one of the sectors hit by the crisis. A lot of measures have been proposed by IMRO, including many of them, supported by not only reduced VAT, but also support for charter flights. I think this will actually complete the philosophy of the changes that we proposed more than six months ago, and I call on my fellow Members to support it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u429	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Are there any lines? Any other speeches? I'm calling off the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. They voted 116 MPs: 38, against 20, abstention 58. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs. They voted 113 MPs: 36, against 47, abstention 30. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the texts of the importer for Articles 59, 60, 61 and 62. Vote 117 MPs: 93 against 24 abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u430	Under art. 63 has a proposal from the MP Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs: "1." In para. The second sentence is created: "The measure of the one-time assistance in the birth of a second and/or third child of parents, provided 24 months before and at the date of birth of the child, is BGN 6500. for each child................................................................................................. 2. In para. 11 the number The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Dora Hristova: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 63 the following amendments shall be made: "1." Paragraph 2 is amended as follows: The amount of monthly support for raising a child under Art. 7, para.1 of the Family Aid Act for children for 2021 shall be as follows: 1. for a family with one child - BGN 70• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 2. for a family with two children - 150 BGN• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 3. for a family with three children - 220 BGN• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 4. for a family with four children - 250 BGN, for each next child in the family the help for the family grows by 30 BGN. 2. Paragraph 6 is amended as follows: . (6) The amount of one-off assistance for the birth of a live child under art. 6, para. 1 of the Family Aid Act for Children 2021 is as follows: 1. for first child - 1000 BGN• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 2. for a second child - BGN 2000• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 3. for a third child• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 4. for the fourth and each next child - 1000 BGN;................................................................. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 63: Art. 63 is amended as follows: Art. 63. (1) The monthly income under art. 4 of the Family Aid Act for children in 2021 is BGN 510. (2) The monthly income under art. 4a, para. 2, p. 1 of the Family Aid Act for children in 2021 is 410 BGN. (3) The monthly income under art. 4a, para. 2, p. 2 of the Family Aid Act for children in 2021 is from 41,01 BGN. up to BGN 510 including, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh... (4) The amount of monthly support for raising a child under art. 7, para. 1 of the Family Aid Act for children for 2021 for families with an average monthly income of a family member for the previous 12 months, lower or equal to the income under para. 2, is as follows: 1. for a family with one child - 40 BGN• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 2. for a family with two children - BGN 90• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 3. for a family with three children - BGN 135• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 4. for a family with four children - BGN 145 and for each child in the family the help for the family grows by BGN 20. (5) The amount of monthly support for raising a child under art. 7, para. 1 of the Family Aid Act for children for 2021 for families with an average monthly income of a family member for the previous 12 months under para. 3 is 80 percent of the amount of aid defined in para. 4. (6) The amount of monthly support for raising a child under art. 7, para. 2 of the Family Aid Act for children is defined and paid in the amount under para. 4 t. 1. (7) The amount of monthly support to raise twins under art. 7, para. 6 of the Family Aid Act for children is BGN 75. (8) The amount of single help in pregnancy under art. 5a, para. 1 of the Family Aid Act for children in 2021 is BGN 150. (9) The amount of one-off assistance in the birth of a live child under art. 6, para. 1 of the Family Aid Act for children for 2021 is as follows: 1. for first child - 250 BGN• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 2. for a second child - 600 BGN• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 3. for a third child 300 leva.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 4. for the fourth and every next child - BGN 200 (10) The amount of the additional single aid for a child with established permanent disabilities 50 and above 50 per cent until the age of 2 years under art. 6, para. 6 of the Family Aid Act for children in 2021 is 100 BGN. (11) The amount of one-off assistance in adoption of a child under art. 6b, para. 1 of the Family Aid Act for children is defined and paid in the amount under para. 9, p. 1. (12) The amount of monthly support for raising a child until one year of age under art. 8, para. 1 of the Family Aid Act for children in 2021 is BGN 200. (13) The amount of single help to raise twins under art. 6a, para. 1 of the Family Aid Act for children in 2021 is BGN 1200. for every child. (14) The amount of single care for a child by a mother (the adoptive mother) student, studying in regular form of training, according to art. 8c, para. 1 of the Family Aid Act for children in 2021 is BGN 2880. (15) The amount of monthly support to raise a child with permanent impairment under art. 8d, para. 1 of the Family Aid Act for children for 2021 is as follows: 1. for a child with defined 90 and over 90 per cent appearance and degree of disability or degree of permanently reduced working capacity.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 2. for a child with defined from 70 to 90 per cent appearance and degree of disability or degree of permanently reduced working capacity.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 3. for a child with defined from 50 to 70 per cent appearance and degree of damage or degree of permanently reduced working capacity. (16) The amount of monthly support to raise a child with permanent disability under art. 8d, para. 2 of the Family Aid Act for children for 2021 is as follows: 1. for a child with defined 90 and over 90 per cent appearance and degree of disability or degree of permanently reduced working capacity.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 2. for a child with defined from 70 to 90 per cent appearance and degree of damage or degree of permanently reduced working capacity ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................• • 3. for a child with defined from 50 to 70 per cent appearance and degree of damage or degree of permanently reduced working capacity. (17) The amount of monthly aid for a child without the right to a survivor's pension from a deceased parent under art. 8f, para. 1 of the Family Aid Act for children in 2021 is 115 BGN. (18) The amount of one-off aid for students enrolled in the first grade under art. 10a of the Family Aids Act for children for the academic 2021 is BGN 300. (19) The amount of one-off aid for students enrolled in the eighth grade under art. 10b of the Family Aids Act for children for the school 2021 - 2022 is BGN 300. (20) The amount of benefits under art. 230, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 231, para. 1 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021 is 340 BGN
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u431	Statements? Mr. Gokov, Mrs. Lecheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u432	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Presidents, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! With art. 63 of the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria lays down the conditions and the amounts of family aid for children. My belief is that the state should not interfere with those who can handle themselves and help those who cannot. A country is strong when it helps all those who can't handle themselves. Part of the state's support for the people is family support for children. They aim to help raise children in a family environment. 11 categories of aid are granted and for each of them a criterion corresponding to the purpose of specific family aid is adopted and part of family aid is granted to families regardless of their income, but for another part specific criteria are laid down, according to their purpose or legal definitions for the respective year of income of a family member. There is an exception for children with permanent disabilities, orphans and so on. Because of the limited time, I will not dwell on the delusions of the government in their populist desires to please everyone. I am referring to the conflicting messages to the society, there will be children for all children without income; then there will be no children for all children to have for the salaries of the police; then there will be salaries for the police, but they will not be at the expense of the children. I have rather come out here to present our proposals, which are part of the overall policy of the Bulgarian Socialist Party for the family, children and young people, expressed in several proposals. We begin by increasing the one-time help for mothers students from £2880. £6,500. That's 10 minimum salaries. They're worth 20 million, and 6027 mothers will benefit from it. We continue with the provision of one-off aid of BGN 6500. Again, these are 10 minimum salaries, for each second and third child of parents insured for a minimum of 24 months back. It costs 60 million and this will benefit the working parents of 9230 children. By the age of 14, the medicines for the children will be free. It's worth 130 million. lv. And this will benefit 1,400,845 children. Then we suggest that kindergartens be free. It's worth 60 million and that's going to benefit 219,000 children. [[Reply from MP Petar Petrov.]] After that, low income families will receive assistance of 250 BGN. at the beginning of the school year, except for first grade and for second, third and fourth grade students. It's worth 30 million. lv. and covers 120,000 children. [[Reply from MP Petar Petrov.]] For the entire period from 1st to 12th grade textbooks to be free. It's worth 50 million for 581 300 children. And something very important, for working parents not a minimum of 500 leva. monthly for each child not over 18 years old. It costs 290 million for 755 946 families. [[Reply from MP Petar Petrov.]] After 18 years of age, the tax preference is transferred from parents to young people, and Bulgarian citizens will not pay income tax from labor until the age of 26 years. It's $175 million. lv. and covers 289 697 young people. [[Reply from MP Petar Petrov.]] This comprehensive policy, which regulates the conditions and size of family aid for children and supports family, children and young people, costs about 815 million. lv. It's not a lot of money and there's money for it. [[Reply from MP Petar Petrov.]] Especially considering, Mr. Petrov, that very recently, last month Mr. Borisov gave a new contract for 1 billion. BGN, I repeat, for 1 billion, not even 800, but 1 billion. lv. of the State-owned company "Automagistrali" and it is already running orders for more than 4 billion. lv. Four billion, Mr. Petrov, without participating in an open competition for them. I'm not gonna stop myself from giving away money without public procurement. I will not argue whether it is important to make infrastructure projects or not. I am saying this only and just to note that the motive for rejecting the proposal cannot in any case be no money. Motives can be about the proposal, firstly, the serious dimensions of poverty and social exclusion in our country, the serious social disintegration and the gigantic inequalities. And second of all, of course, the demographic disaster. The population of Bulgaria is melting and ageing and each passing year the number of living children is steadily decreasing. This requires urgent, enhanced and concrete measures to stimulate responsible parenting. I expect support from all parliamentary groups. I would very much like to have our colleague Georgi Markov here in your ranks, because he has repeatedly promoted...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u433	Thank you, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u434	...such measures to help families...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u435	Finish your thought, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u436	Finishing his sentence is not normal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u437	That's exactly what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u438	I've never delayed my time more than 10 seconds, and you're interrupting me in the middle of a sentence.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u439	I'm not interrupting, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u440	It doesn't matter. That's not normal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u441	Don't be angry. I just have to warn you by the book. [[Heckling]] I'm sorry. Is there any lines for Mr. Gokov? You want to give Mr. Gokov a chance to finish. You're entitled to a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u442	Since I was mentioned by Mr. Gokov in his declaration, I would like to say that really, if we are listening to Mr. Gokov, the state should give up the other activities and these small sums of 815 million, 1 billion, there is no problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u443	What are you personally affected by?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u444	I'm not personally offended. I want to give a personal explanation. I can't support Mr. Gokov because there are 23 people. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u445	Colleagues, hold on.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u446	There's twenty-three of you. Twenty-three! How can we support you?! How to win against GERB, which are 84?! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Twenty-three of you! Look at you!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u447	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. The way you're holding Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u448	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman, I take the floor because you strictly observe the Staff Regulations of the second you stop the one speaking, and at the same time you give the floor to a person who is supposed to make a personal explanation, but in fact makes a line to me and I cannot respond to what he is saying in my speech. That's not normal. Either apply the same arsin, as they say, to everyone, or let everyone do whatever they want. You can't treat the left-hand side of parliament like that, and you can't tolerate it at the expense of the right-hand side. It's not normal and take a note. [[Comments from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u449	Thank you. Are there any other speeches? Mrs. Lecheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u450	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It is obvious that the right half does not want to understand the seriousness of the problem we are talking about, namely the demographic collapse that our country is facing. Obviously, on the right, they do not know that these particular negative demographic trends affect particularly sensitive and appear as a risk factor for socially significant public systems, such as the labour market, the pension system, health care and education. Obviously, you don't want to understand that we are in a state where we can no longer overcome these processes, we can only delay them. It is obvious that you do not know that your strategy, in fact Borisov's strategy adopted by the government of Borisov, 2012 " 2030" does not work. I will tell you a few facts that you are listening to with dissatisfaction, but while we were on vacation, I opened the data of the National Statistical Institute and will tell you the following data. I told you what was the data for the period 2010 - 2019 in terms of birth rates. In 2010 75 000 children were born; in 2019 61 000 children were born. This is literally the result of your measures and your policies that you take with regard to demographic processes. I'm going to tell you some other data because you can replicate me, although it's hardly possible when the debate is absent from this room. The period 2005 - 2009 In 2005, children were born 71 075; 2009 were born 80 959. These are the differences between the management of BSP and the management of GERB. This is how your strategy works, ladies and gentlemen, and this is how your measures work. Our policy and when we present every budget, every budgetary procedure, is a plan of complex measures in terms of tackling the demographic crisis. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, you must at least listen to and hear these data that tells you not Vesela Lecheva, but the data from the National Statistical Institute. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u451	Thank you. Are there any lines? Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm calling off the debate. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Georgi Svilenski. They voted 115 MPs: 36, against 57, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Dora Hristova and a group of MPs. Vote 108 MPs: 2 against 54, abstention 52. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for art. 63. Vote 117 MPs: 84 against 33 abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u452	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 64. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 65.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u453	Statements? Here you go, Mrs. Jeleva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u454	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 64 pensioners are proposed to be entitled to food vouchers in 2021. This applies to those who receive a pension of 300 to 369 BGN, which is also the line of poverty. So far, so good. I'm taking an attitude to ask you a few questions and call you when you sign things to imagine them. As the Prime Minister said, I think he had approached you, Mr. Minister, when you signed a regulation, to imagine it. Food vouchers will be available in April. I want you to imagine how a low-income pensioner, for example, from Borino Municipality, was asked just now, one of Borovo's neighborhoods, how, where would he be able to shop with these vouchers? You can't answer these questions, and that's why they're not signed until April. Why in April, when the worst winter months are coming, when pensioners just then need support? Because this help has not been cleared as a vision, you have no idea how it will happen yet, so it will be possible until April month. [[Reply from Minister Kiril Ananiev.]] There is, of course, and today we will vote on it, but these pensioners will hardly benefit from this help. The second thing I want to say is the injustice to the other part of the pensioners. The ones who'll take £ 370. pension for 1 BGN only. They won't be able to take advantage. Once again there is one group that gets support and the other one doesn't. I am not saying that the proposal is not good, but please, when you sign a law, a regulation, imagine how it will be carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u455	Thank you, Mrs. Jeleva. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. Art. 64, Art. 65. They voted 124 MPs: 121, against 3, no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u456	Under art. 66 there is a proposal of the MP Dora Hristova and a group of MPs: Art. 66 is amended as follows: Art. 66. The amount of the State subsidy for one actual vote received under art. 26, para. 1 of the Law on Political Parties for 2021 is 0 BGN The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 66. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 67. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 68. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 69.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u457	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Dora Yankova. They voted 122 MPs: for 7, against 96, abstention 19. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for Articles 66, 67, 68 and 69. They voted 121 MPs: 113 against 6, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u458	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 70: Art. 70. (1) The maximum amount of the new government debt, which can be assumed under the Law on Government Debt, is 4.5 billion. lv. (2) Within the limit of para. 1 The Council of Ministers may assume external government debt under the medium-term debt issuance programme on the international markets established by the Dealer's Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria as the Enumerator and the Citygroup Global Markets Limited, HESBC Bank, PELC, Societe General and Unicredit Bank AG as the Organizers and Dealers on the Global Medium-term Programme of the Republic of Bulgaria for the issue of bonds worth EUR 8 000 000 000, the Agency's Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria as the Enumerator and Citibank N.A., London branch, as the Financial Agent, the Payment Agent, the Transfer Agent, the Transfer Agent and the Calculation Agent and the Citygroup Global Markets Deutscheland AG in the capacity of the Regist, the Plastic Agent and the Transfer Agent on the Global Framework Programme of the Republic of Bulgaria for the Issue of Bonds. (ertified by law............................................................................................... 16 from 2015) (DV, No. 25 from 2015) , with a maximum aggregate nominal volume of bonds that can be issued under the programme, increased from 8 000 000 000 euros to 10 000 000 000 euros in the execution of art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 4 of the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2020, as well as external government debt through loans under EU instruments and international financial institutions, including for financing projects and programmes. (3) Within the current budgetary year, officers with a budget under the state budget shall not be able to assume a new government debt under art. 37, para. 1, t. 1 letter (b) of the Public Finance Act. (4) Within the limit of para. 1 The Council of Ministers may assume government debt to finance financial stabilisation programmes and instruments, including lending to the Single Resolution Fund under the Single Resolution Mechanism for Credit Institutions and certain investment firms.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u459	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 70. They voted 122 MPs: for 86, against 35, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u460	Proposal of the National Representative Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs: Article 2 is created. 70a: Art. 70a. (1) State guarantees under the new loan agreements of the Bulgarian Development Bank under the Bulgarian Development Bank Act, or their currency equivalent, of 450 million. lv. continue until 31 December 2021 in support of the liquidity of enterprises with staff of up to 249 people affected by the emergency situation and the CIVID-19 epidemic, subject to State aid legislation. (2) The Bulgarian Development Bank shall provide portfolio guarantees for a maximum amount of credit to one person and related persons of 1 million. lv. and at the limit of the guarantee payment by the Bulgarian Development Bank of 75%. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 71. Under art. 72 has a proposal from the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 72: Art. 72. Within the current budget year, the Council of Ministers may issue state guarantees as follows: 1. in the form of guarantee deposits under art. 83 - total of up to 100 million lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 2. under the Law on Crediting of Students and Doctoral Students, in total up to 40 million. lv. 3. under new loan agreements of the Bulgarian Development Bank under the Bulgarian Development Bank Act of up to 700,0 million. lv. or their currency equivalent, subject to State aid legislation. Under art. 73 has a proposal from the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 73: Art. 73. The maximum amount of the new state guarantees which can be issued in accordance with art. 72, it's 840 million. lv. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 74. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 75. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 76. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 77. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 78, as in para. 2 after the word "infected" the word "pandem" is added and the word "pandem" is replaced by "SDPID-19." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 79. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 80.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u461	Statements? Mr. Gechev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u462	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We are all tired, but I invite you to pay attention to the following clarification and proposal I am making. The Bank for Development is properly granted the rights of 700 million. lv. guarantees, as well as state guarantees,. 800 million lv. the government of the Development Bank. [[Loud noise and lines.]] We're offering you 450 million. lv. ... [[Loud noise.]] Mr. Chairman, may I have some order in place?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u463	Go on, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u464	Now that we're talking about $1 billion. BGN, approximately distributed, we offer 450 million. lv. to be provided for small and medium-sized companies, thereby ensuring the functioning and implementation of the Bank's development objectives, namely these guaranteed loans and bank guarantees to be for small and medium-sized companies, and not for large oligarchic companies that have claimed the bank in the last two or three years. Therefore, if Bulgaria wants to support small and medium-sized companies, there is nothing political here. Let's act like Germany, like France, like Italy and support the basis of the Bulgarian business and not the big oligarch companies. That is why we want 450 million to be guaranteed for the Bulgarian small and medium-sized companies within these guarantees. I ask for your support not us, but in the interests of the Bulgarian small and medium-sized companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u465	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs. They voted 127 MPs: 42, against 61, abstention 24. The offer is not accepted. I shall put the following texts to the vote: the text of the importer for art. 71; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 72; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 73; the text of the importer for art. Art. 74, Art. Art. 75, Art. Art. 76, Art. Article 77; 78 as in the text of the importer for art. 78 to take into account the editorial amendments proposed by the Commission; the text of the importer as art. 79; and the text of the importer for art. 80. They voted 123 MPs: 86 against 36, abstention 1. The texts put to the vote have been adopted. Please continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u466	Art. 1 (1) (a) Art. 81, Art. 92 no proposals have been made. The Commission shall support the text of the importer as Articles 81 to 92 inclusive.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u467	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the texts of the importer as members from 81 to 92 inclusive. Vote 128 MPs: 89 against 39 abstentions. The texts put to the vote have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u468	Art. 1 (1) (a) Article 93 102 including no proposals made. The Commission shall support the text of the importer as Articles 93 to 102 inclusive.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u469	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the texts of the importer from art. Article 93 102 inclusive. Vote 124 MPs: 85 against 38, abstention 1. The texts put to the vote have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u470	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 103 as in para. 2, p. 5 after the words........................................................................................... 13, para. The Public Finance Act added 3 The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Articles 104 and 105.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u471	Are there any speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 103 with the editorial amendments proposed by the Commission and the texts of the importer for art. Art. 104, Art. 105. They voted 121 MPs: for 82, against 39, no abstentions. The texts have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u472	Under art. 106 has a proposal from the MP Milen Mihov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 106, para. 1 sentence 2 is created: "The limitation by sentence first does not apply to staff funds.' The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 106, as in para. 6 after the word "infected" the word "pandem" is added and the word "pandem" is replaced by "COVID-19" is replaced by "COVID-19." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. It's 107 as in para. 3 the word "size' to be replaced by "yearly size'.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u473	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Milen Mihov. They voted 121 MPs: 20, against 50, abstention 51. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the texts of the importer for art. 106 with the amendments proposed by the Commission and art. 107 with the amendments proposed by the Commission. They voted 122 MPs: 86, against 34, abstention 2. The texts put to the vote have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u474	Proposal of the National Representative Dora Yankova: Article 2 is created. 109: ..................................................... 109. (1) Monthly collateral and allowances for 2020 under art. 60, para. 2, p. Art. 1 and 2 and art. 64, para. 1 of the Waste Management Act for the period from 1 March 2020 to 31 December 2020 remain at the expense of the municipality, which has collected them and spent them on a decision of the municipal council through internal compensated changes, without amending the method of determination and amount of the municipal waste charge adopted by the municipal council. (2) RIEW, in whose territory the relevant depot is located, shall recover from the bank account of foreign funds transferred and unused by the municipalities monthly collateral and refunds for 2020 under art. 60, para. 2, p. Art. 1 and 2 and art. 64, para. 1 of the Waste Management Act for the period from 1 March 2020 to 31 December 2020 by 31 January 2021. The recovered funds by sentence shall first be spent on a decision of the municipal council under the conditions of paragraph 1. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Kirilova Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish art. 108: Art. 108. In 2021, the term referred to in art. 84, para. 4 of the Public Finance Act for the submission by the mayor to the municipal council of the final draft of the municipal budget, the indicative annual estimate of the accounts of funds from the European Union and the forecasts under art. 82, para. 3 of the same law is extended by 25 working days.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u475	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Dora Yankova. They voted 123 MPs: 42, against 56, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new article. 108, with a text on the Commission report. They voted 117 MPs: for 86, against 31, there is no abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u476	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In the Law on Political Parties (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 2 the words "the Minister of Finance" shall be replaced by "the Minister of Justice"; (b) in para. 3 sentence first, the words "the central budget" shall be replaced by "the Ministry of Justice" and, in a sentence, third, the words "the Ministry of Justice" shall be replaced by "the Ministry of Justice" shall be replaced by "the Ministry of Justice" and, in a sentence, third, the words "the Ministry of Finance" shall be replaced by "the Ministry of Justice" shall be replaced by "the Ministry of Justice"; (c) in para. 4 and 5 the words "the Ministry of Finance" shall be replaced by "the Ministry of Justice." 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 27, para. 1 sentence first, the words "the central budget" shall be replaced by "the Ministry of Justice" and a third sentence shall be created: "When the expenditure under the budget of the Ministry of Justice is insufficient, additional funds for this purpose shall be provided in accordance with art. 109, para. 3 of the Public Finance Act. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 28, para. 1 the words "the Ministry of Finance" shall be replaced by "the Ministry of Justice." 4. In the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending the Law on Political Parties (prom., SG No. ) : (a) § 5, para. 7 the words "in the general order' shall be replaced by "the National Revenue Agency'; (b) in § 6 the words.................................................................. is provided........................................................................................................................................................................................ The Commission supports the text of the importer, but proposes that § 3 be rejected, as it is reflected in § 2, p. 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4, which shall become § 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-25.u477	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the text of the importer for the name of the subdivision; the text of the importer for § 1; the text of the importer for § 2 in the version proposed by the Commission; the Commission proposal for the rejection of § 3 by importer; the text of the importer for § 4, which shall become § 3; and § 5, which shall become § 4. Vote 126 MPs: 90 against 35, abstention 1. The texts put to the vote have been adopted. Dear colleagues, I think we do not have time to start further texts. I declare the next regular plenary session on 26 November 2020, at 9.00, according to the adopted work programme. We're adjourned. [[Clears throat]]
