ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I suggest that it be included in the Programme of Work of the National Assembly the following additional point: The Council of Ministers of Ministers on 13 March 2020, and I propose that it be the first item for today's plenary session on 13 March 2020. Please, voting mode. They voted 198 MPs: 198, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Daritkova, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u2	Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! I'm making two procedural proposals. The first is the Parliament meeting on this point to be broadcast directly on BNT 1 and BNR. And the second procedural proposal is based on art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to be admitted to the plenary hall of Ventsislav Mutafchiyski, Angel Kunchev and Todor Kantardzhiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. Colleagues, I am voting on Mrs Daritkova's first procedural proposal for direct broadcasting. They voted 199 MPs: for 198, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Now I'm putting the tolerance procedure to the vote. They voted 198 MPs: 198, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Colleagues, we're moving on to the first point of today: PROJECT DECISION TO STATEMENT OF EXEMPTION. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 13 March 2020 I give the floor to the chairman of the National Operations Headquarters Professor Mutafchiyski. You're welcome to introduce us to the situation at the moment.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u4	Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! As Chief of Staff, I would like to present a brief report on the current situation in the country, in the nearby countries around it, Europe and the world, as well as on the measures taken and on the current problems that are related to overcoming and limiting the CoVID-19 epidemic. At this time, on the basis of more than 1,400 subjects tested for coronavirus in Bulgaria, 23 positive cases have been identified. Only for the day yesterday. 16 positive and one death, which you are aware of, in Pirogov. In the world and in the countries around us there is an extremely dynamic situation. Only on the Balkan Peninsula all countries are growing in the newly registered cases "Greece has already surpassed 100; slowly but surely Romania is moving towards this process; Croatia; Serbia; there are already 100 cases in Slovenia. In the world, 134,000 cases were registered at 6:00 this morning, 4900 were killed, 70,000 were healed. In the first outbreak, which was found in China, the cases currently registered are only 21 in the last 24 hours. All other countries suffering from the spread of coronavirus COVID-19 have increased in the identified cases. In Italy, more than 15,000 cases have already died, 1258 are critical, i.e. they require resuscitation treatment. There are over 10,000 cases in Iran, if we can trust all the information available. There's 8,000 in North Korea. In Europe, the countries that are from the European Union, especially the impression and worry wake the last days of the epidemic: in Spain, more than 3100 cases, in France, 2800 cases, in Germany, 2700 cases, in the United States about 1700 cases. All countries of the European Union are no longer spared the epidemic. In fact, the World Health Organization has already declared a pandemic for COVID-19 and all criteria are met. National Operational Headquarters has been appointed in Bulgaria since 28 February to accumulate all the information in the world, both around us and within the country, regarding the situation around the coronavirus infection, to monitor the practices in the world that are applied both from a medical point of view and of an organizational nature, to organise activities related to overcoming the coronavirus infection or limiting it, and to organise the supply together with the relevant ministries. The main backbone, of course, in overcoming the consequences or limitation of the epidemic is the Ministry of Health, headed by the Minister of Health and the Chief Health Inspector of the Republic Prof. Kunchev, but in his work the Operational Headquarters works with almost all ministries and their representatives who are involved and attracted to the National Operational Headquarters. What are the conclusions from what has been done so far? We are dealing with some problems which, in light of the escalation of the situation, we are obliged to share them with you as well. First, there are no more isolated cases in Bulgaria, but a mass occurrence of cases begins. The persons registered since yesterday only 11 are related to the first couple admitted to "Pyrogov" - that is, there is a clear cause. We have three nests of infection that are absolutely independent of each other and have no consequences. This is in Pleven, in Gabrovo, in Sofia. In Sofia, most cases have nothing to do with each other. So we're not talking about this thing anymore about an isolated family, a family, a village, we're talking about a more serious situation. Verbal messages have long been issued to respect social self-insulate, that is, people being quarantined, a number of orders have been given, and the issue of the use of hospital leaves during this quarantine has been settled, but we note that there has been a gross violation of this quarantine. Only this situation, which is around the couple in Pirogov, is the result of a celebration in a Bulgarian village of 24 people with a clear awareness that one of them has traveled abroad, and yet the celebration has been held. In such cases in the world, some very drastic measures are taken in Israel in the first cases when they detected a violation of the quarantine, they declared an incriminating act of up to seven years in prison; the same is in Greece. Two years in prison; Russia. Three years in prison; only that day were declared 25 cases in Romania for a violation of the quarantine. Verbal messages are extremely ineffective in this regard. There must be some changes in controlling this process. Secondly, in terms of medical facilities. Medical establishments work on strictly defined clinical practices and schedules with official characteristics that exclude the possibility that I, for example, as a surgeon, work as a cardiologist. That's a problem. When creating a situation like in Italy, where entire hospitals are transformed to look at coronavirus-infected infection, there should be legal opportunities to mobilise all medical personnel and not come into conflict with the existing arrangements on this issue, both for the status of hospitals and for the immediate duties of medical staff, as well as the compensation of medical personnel, because they will work in special conditions. Once they're in the outbreak, they're quarantined like their patients, they won't go home for 24 hours, seven days a week, and as long as they can be replaced by other teams who have spent the quarantine period. With regard to the supply of protective clothing. Surprisingly for me, solutions and potential were found so quickly in the Bulgarian industry. There is already a real production of protective clothing that goes beyond the requirements of protective clothing and with a large production capacity. So from this point of view, it can be said that the problem is solved. The problem with the fans, that's the breathing apparatus. A real challenge is saving these sick people. Yes, 80% are mildly ill, even some do not understand that they are sick, but of the 20 seriously ill, at least half need resuscitation treatment, i.e. breathing apparatus. Bulgaria has more hospital beds per capita from almost all European countries, except Germany, but this is not a soothing fact. There are ways to quickly supply such equipment under the terms of the Public Procurement Act and the limitations in this create legal inability to carry out fast transactions. Secondly, the producers themselves do not keep anything in stock, so this is the second problem. We have succeeded, of course, with the premier's decisive intervention to engage devices to purchase 200 pieces from a world manufacturer, but the supplies will be a month of May - these are the realities. Regarding the development of the disease and why I am now standing before you. If so far it were isolated cases, practice and observation in all similar situations in the world shows that we are on the verge of an exponential outbreak of cases. Whether it's next week or another week, I can't say, but this is coming. What is the purpose of the measures to be taken? It is possible with all the powers and means that are currently not regulated enough to delay the development of this infection, to limit itself. If this curve in other countries goes steeply up, at least to us it's a little more lean. This is the purpose of the measures being proposed. We're not going to get past this thing, but with this epidemic going slower, it's going to reduce pressure on the health care system, because we well know we have 740 infectious beds, we can increase them to 1400, we can transform certain hospitals, but on average, the population won't do it entirely in the whole country. It's going to be an outbreak that requires special measures, extraordinary measures that I've been talking about. We are already facing these problems. Also the motivation of the staff, an extremely important issue. It's an extremely important matter! The limitation of travel. Two weeks we send verbal messages, you know, in the morning, in the evening and at any time of the day. Surprisingly, on the weekends, there was an increase in the airport trip by about 30% of the usual, on the threshold of the epidemic. Only in the last 24 hours instead of normally 8000 departing from Bulgaria through the airport there were 240. Apparently, people are already ripe for extreme measures, for really social distancing. There are no proven measures in the world that are effective, but yet the only measure proposed by the World Health Organization is social distance. This involves limiting rights, and we have grown accustomed to living free from any rules. Come not all kinds of rules, but almost all kinds of rules, not to limit our travel, not to limit our walking to the left, not to limit our communication. It is difficult for our fellow citizens, as in the whole world, to limit them, so there must be absolutely clear legislative rules. With regard to laboratories, there is also a lot of pressure. We are working on finding reservations, although relevant are the patients tested against all other countries in Europe. We're in the middle. Romania is below us as saturated according to the population of the country. In this situation, it is unlikely that half measures can produce results. We need a specialized body or government need wider powers to resolve multiple issues that appear in dynamics. The situation changes every hour. It's not exotic that we made a statement in the middle of the night. That's how the situation put it, because it only changed an hour ago. That is what awaits us, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u5	Thank you, Professor Mutafchiyski. Colleagues, on the basis of the analysis and recommendations of the National Operational Headquarters, the Council of Ministers submitted the following draft decision to the National Assembly: Project! DECISION declaring a state of emergency The National Assembly on a proposal from the Council of Ministers and on the basis of art. 84, p. 12 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in connection with the growing pandemic of COVID-19 HAS DECIDED 1. Announces a state of emergency on the whole territory of the Republic of Bulgaria from 13 March 2020 to 13 April 2020. 2. Instructs the Council of Ministers to take all necessary measures to address the emergency situation in relation to the pandemic of COVID-19 and in accordance with art. 57, para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Prime Minister, you're welcome to justify your offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Firstly, I would like to thank you for the Conference of Presidents, which we have had the opportunity to attend together with our colleagues from the National Operations Headquarters. There, nearly an hour and a half in detail, we have introduced the heads of the parliamentary groups to everything the Headquarters and the government have done at this time. Of course, first of all, I would like to thank everyone who is on line one - doctors, nurses, nurses, hospital managers, for what they are doing and will continue to do in the coming days in a whole new environment. They're people like all of us, and they're afraid, and they get tired. So with an update of the budget, if you accept today's points, in the coming days, or if through the Cashier, but let's leave this as a form. They must also be stimulated and assessed in practice with the payment of those on the front line of their work. The situation two weeks ago was one in the world, one before another, two days ago it was different. Yesterday was like a bombshell of statements by all the leaders in the world all over the world. The measures we have introduced since February 28th in France will introduce them from Monday, in Germany from today, Austria, Belgium, even Finland, which was with the softest measures, only against this miracle called coronavirus. It's literally ruining the world in a healthy and business way that we imagine it to be. It changes the way we think, the way we're used to travel, the way we move. Now I would like an urgent conversation with the President of the European Commission, because closing the borders of Slovenia, Croatia, Romania and Hungary will hinder transport. Our economies are open, connected. This will literally block business life. He's blocking our drivers, families that are going to fall across borders. Yesterday, the Prime Minister of Israel and I talked about the so-called clean airports, clean corridors. Minister Zhelyazkov and I will offer especially for transport, so as not to become a problem afterwards and with the supply of various food products, with exports from the country. You know, for the first time in recent years we have more exports than imports. This means that our businesses, warehouses will be literally defeated. To date, if consumption declines are maintained, at the end of the year with a minimum of 3 billion. lv. the budget will not be filled, so my proposal is, by updating the budget, to be only where people are literally at the front. It's a bacterial war right now. At first, he was underestimated by the flu, the flu. Yes, mortality is really much smaller than many other diseases, but the feeling in people, in the world, I repeat, and these emergency measures that are taken, carry great damage, because when we close schools and kindergartens, these children have to look at themselves at home, then their parents don't go to work, or we put at risk. Fortunately, at least young people are protected by their immune system. It is said that our future is protected, but then it is with the children and grandchildren that we put at risk the grandparents. You see, every single thing is so connected to each other that no country has applied any measure more than we have. No country has done anything we haven't done. I will be truly grateful, I think we will also give a good sign to the people that in critical situations we can unite, because it also says here: We've won battles together. We want this state of emergency for a month. We need it mainly for undisciplined people who carry the disease. For example, imagine those who broke the ban completely deliberately went to party and then 14 people were infected. We don't know how many others they've been communicating with. Statistics in the world say that if this disease continues for 17 days as incubation period, not to pretend to be a doctor, nearly 800 people communicate with this person. Yeah, you'd say some countries don't. They just don't get tested there. The more a nation is explored, the more the sick rise. There are many people who keep him on his feet, do not feel him young, with a powerful immune system, but during that time they have been communicating, communicating, communicating with everyone else, so that's what our demand is for. In the meantime, if necessary, two, five, ten apparatus, we have enough to date, with thousands of devices we have, including from the new ambulances we have 30. What are their names? They're not stationary, but we can put them on the locker in the hospital room and do the work. Nowhere, in any country, nothing different or more, even more of us have done. And when we give an example of how those who can, in the afternoon, will have a warrant, these jobs where they can cover themselves from home, do so. In my opinion, we should not close the counters of different institutions in order not to paralyze business life to the full, because then we will not be able to raise the economy. You understand that in this situation, investors, new factories, factories, or whatever is on the agenda are unlikely in Germany, France. America has never closed the doors to Europe, even during wartime, but that's the measure. I would like very much, not for me, for the sake of people, to show a month of unity in the implementation of these measures. What they say is, I'm their retranslator entirely, so I asked the Speaker of Parliament, the professors, the doctors to speak before me and explain the real situation to you. If we don't get a clear transport corridor like this, we're gonna get into an even worse situation. The transformation of medical workers, hospitals, including.. this should be done in minutes, in an hour, in two. The Health Commission will receive our proposals for two weeks after the meeting of the Council of Ministers to close a number of institutions, respectively, and if possible, the parliament will vote on them today. And in the current law is one year in prison, so I hope that all the strictness of the Law to those who go and rejoice or do not comply with the provision will be applied. There doesn't have to be a cash fine. A year in prison is a very hard punishment, we just have to apply it. But just so I don't repeat myself, once again, thank you for this morning's attitude and let's see what you decide. We're counting on you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u7	Thank you, Prime Minister. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor for speeches. Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u8	Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, colleagues! Dear Bulgarian citizens! Bulgaria is facing a crisis and the situation requires reason, coolness and responsibility. Of course, the most important today is the health of Bulgarian citizens. We will support all measures that ensure limiting the spread of the disease, guarantee people's health. Today, at the Chairman's Council, we made proposals to supplement the decision of the Council of Ministers, which Mr. Borisov and the Council of Ministers adopted. Thank you for accepting the opposition's proposals. They were: the state of emergency to be put in place by a period of one month was the first proposal to be timeless. The second, which we have proposed to explicitly write down, that the powers voted on by the Council of Ministers are based on art. 57, para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. This means that we guarantee that the Council of Ministers will not abuse the explicit powers given to it and violate the fundamental rights of Bulgarian citizens. We want to thank the doctors, nurses, medical staff in the Bulgarian hospitals for taking the hit that they are on line one, taking a risk to themselves, to their health, to their loved ones. Everyone in this room knows that we owe them, that in the years we have not responded to their demands, desires for adequate working conditions, for payment. And today I want us to thank them, encourage them and do everything that is necessary to work calmly and feel secure by both the government and the National Assembly. I'm addressing private hospitals that have not yet been involved in this process. Dear owners of private hospitals, health is not profit! You can't stay away from the drama that's being played in the country and stare! We also expect the government to take all measures so that private hospitals can participate in this process. We expect legislative initiatives from the Council of Ministers. I have also stated to the Board of Presidents that we are a legislative body, and we need to change those laws that guarantee the peaceful work of all institutions to manage the situation, and we will probably need to discuss and adopt such legislative initiatives. From the opposition, we will also be involved with our proposals...................... and reasonable. We expect the government to submit a budget update. We have also stated to the Prime Minister that in this situation the distribution of money per piece through a decree of the Council of Ministers and the circumvention of the National Assembly is absolutely unacceptable. The situation is serious enough and requires an active role of the higher authority in the state. We're worried about the action of the government per piece. We expect a complex, state-of-the-art approach with a view into the future. Dear Prime Minister, ministers and MPs, you know that once we have made every effort to control the situation, the next challenge will come - the economic and social crisis. In one night, 30% of the U.S. stock market collapsed. You know that Europe is already feeling the results of the crisis. Other governments in Europe have undertaken serious packages of economic and social measures: delaying payment on mortgage loans; helping elderly people with food delivery at home, for example; helping with one-off vouchers for families who watch their children at home because they cannot go to school. The European Central Bank called: reduce interest rates and taxes to protect ourselves from a subsequent severe blow. Alas, the Bulgarian government is currently not ready with such a package of measures. That is why we have proposed, together with the actions regarding the resolution of the crisis, to call it a health package, to think from now on of an economic and social one that will soften the impact afterwards. You know that we are the poorest country in Europe, with the greatest inequalities, that 3 million people are below the poverty line. We can't afford another social blow to these people. Therefore, I proposed to the Conference of Presidents from now on that we all sit down, each with our own mind, concrete proposals, with expertise, to come up with this package of economic and social measures, to prepare it, to be ready to place it in time, if necessary, and not then to act panicky, Adhok and so on. In conclusion, we will vote for the decision proposed by the Council of Ministers, with constructiveness, ready to work towards overcoming the crisis, but also with the expectation of taking a comprehensive, state-owned approach with a view to the future, with the challenges that await us, with reasonable and cold-blooded solutions to these challenges.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u9	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. Mr. Karadayi, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u10	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we will support the Decision on the introduction of a state of emergency. When it comes to protecting people's lives and health, it is vital to take and introduce all measures to preserve the health and life of each person. This requires not only the adoption of the decision, but also the adoption of concrete action plans to be implemented in ensuring constitutional rights and freedoms. The Movement for Rights and Freedoms will support all necessary measures and will contribute to their implementation. The World Health Organization has declared the spread of COVID-19 worldwide as a pandemic, and the government's proposal is timely and correct. It is constitutionally the power of the National Assembly to declare a state of emergency on the basis of a proposal from the Council of Ministers. At the extraordinary meeting of the Conference of Presidents and here in the Chamber, we have also heard from General Mutafchiyski, President of the National Operations Headquarters, and the Prime Minister, information on the factual situation, as well as the necessary measures, including guarantees of respect for the constitutional rights of citizens in an emergency situation. It must be clear that the introduction of an emergency situation and the application of exceptional measures is of a guarantee nature. The legitimate constitutional objective of introducing such an extraordinary regime of functioning of the constitutional system is to protect and preserve constitutional order, not to transform it into a new or an emergency situation for constitutional changes. Now I also address all Bulgarian citizens. It must be made clear that the adoption of a decision to declare a state of emergency means that the National Assembly remains a legislative power in force which has control over the government, without any delegated legislation by the executive. It should be borne in mind that an unconstitutional withdrawal or restriction of fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens in a state of emergency is unacceptable. Guarantee for this are ratified and implemented for Bulgaria international acts, as well as the practice of the Strasbourg court, which establish important standards for the grounds, time and territorial limits of the state of emergency and for the permissible derogations of rights. We all know that according to art. 57, para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria only and only by law can be temporarily limited the exercise of individual rights of citizens except the rights provided for in art. Art. 28, art. Art. 29, Art. 31, para. Article 3 (1) (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 establishing a common organisation of the markets in agricultural products and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1290/2005 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 965). 32, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 37. On the other hand, we know that in the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces......................................................................................... 123, of t. The scope of the measures and restrictions of the emergency situation has been determined. Thank you for your attention. Once again, I would like to declare from this platform that the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will support all the necessary measures in this regard and will contribute to their implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. Colleagues, any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u12	Dear President, Mr. Borisov, honourable gentlemen and ministers, colleagues, representatives of the media! The Parliamentary Group of...... will unanimously support the proposed introduction of a state of emergency, as it is essential not so much in view of the development and spread of the coronvirus in Bulgaria........................... so far..... so far........................................................................ is not what is not as in most in most in most of the proposed..................................................................................................................... We have always put the health and existence of the Bulgarian people first. In this regard, I would like to remind you that we were the first and perhaps the only political force that was here by the National Assembly ahead of the measures that were put in place first, we proposed the introduction of thermal cameras at border crossing points at a time when everyone still accepted with a mockery, and there were even such comments. Unfortunately, we were right! Unfortunately, our colleagues did not support us, but anyway, now is not the time for political measurement, but for the adoption of a responsible decision, as proposed by the Council of Ministers. In this regard, I would like to assure you that the United patriots will always be a loyal partner with regard to all measures relating to coronavirus, and we will demand even more drastic measures in terms of the measures to be proposed and taken by the executive, related to limiting public events, attendance and continuing school activities, as schools are a major distributor, higher education institutions, as well as other places where there are larger groups of people. You can count on our support in all respects. Finally, I would still like to call on the Bulgarian citizens not to panic. There is still no reason to panic, at least the facts show it, but reasonable, balanced measures must be taken to limit this virus, which I am confident of, and all other viruses will pass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. Mrs. Taskova has made a statement. Here you go, Mrs. Taskova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u14	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! I take the floor to inform you that we of the will will support the announcement of a state of emergency. I don't think there's any of you doubting that. You know that on 19 February we raised this important issue because it was already at the home of every Bulgarian citizen. Yes, we will take part in the vote on all the measures; yes, we say on behalf of our entire parliamentary group, we are ready to work even overtime, if necessary, but I will not hide my disappointment from ignoring the subject by a very large part of you when the virus was one passenger away in China. You know, there were even comments back then that the debate was professional, that there was no room in this room. Unfortunately, this understatement of the situation has made it possible that today the Prime Minister of Bulgaria and the entire government to face this serious crisis, because everything we talked about back then, everything we wanted back then, everything we wanted to introduce stricter measures for home quarantine, ensuring protection for all medical professionals, was somehow passed by explaining that they were not sick. Yes, they are not sick today, but we stand firmly behind strict measures, penalties and restrictions of the undisciplined and irresponsible Bulgarian citizens because the situation is severe. At the time, the World Health Organization warned us about this, but today we are already in a pandemic. Only a responsible attitude and strict discipline of all Bulgarian citizens would help Bulgaria to go through this crisis more quickly and would save our economy from serious turmoil. I can't help but express my satisfaction on behalf of our group that the old politicians finally reached the conclusions we wanted to draw much earlier, and they realized that the virus, the pandemic and the disease have no colour and we will all work together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u15	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taskova. The word is Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, honourable ministers! Right now we're upset. I feel like we're not being optimistic, and we shouldn't be. So far, we are doing well and I believe that, compared to neighbours and other peoples. When we do this reckoning, we shouldn't just look at ourselves. We need to look at where we Bulgarians are in this world and say some things about this world at all, for what reason we are in this situation, and say how wrong Fukuyama was. Because if today the world is in this state, in this situation, many ideologists are to blame, from whom the whole world has suffered for decades. Beautiful were those fairy tales about the free movement of people, goods and capital. We warned that things aren't black and white, they're not uniform, they're much deeper. We have forgotten certain things that the Lord God has made of everything visible and invisible, he has told us in a Holy Book, and we have not performed. You can see that humans, humanity, are being punished or at least warned. We Bulgarians are now part of this world, also forgotten some things, which are basically said and dressed in the formula of Conservative. In this crisis, we should draw good conclusions, observe and see how the various social models in the world deal with this test, reflect on where we are. Here just now Mrs. Ninova very well put the issue in particular. That's one of the topics. I don't think I can, in the time I have, list all the problems, but where are the private hospitals? I listen to the people of the honourable headquarters who have been talking for days, asking, saying, but they have said nothing, and have they been helped, has the question been asked about this capacity, on this national material base that these structures have, and what is their responsibility? Here, the test gives us the opportunity to think about some practices and about some of our actions, which, just like that, Urbuleski adopted, implemented, undertaken in the years, because this is how we were ordered from somewhere. I will conclude by saying that in order to get out of this state, from this crisis, from this situation, the most important thing is what writes at the entrance the unity, dear brothers and sisters, Bulgarians, all who are here the unity, consent and common actions in the name, again I declare to the Bulgarian national interest, and it is to preserve the health and life of the Bulgarians! Dear Prime Minister and you ministers, when you speak with foreign representatives, with foreign governments, when you agree on the common efforts in this regard, and from now on you will probably be doing it by phone and at meetings daily, remember one thing: that not Europe, not the world, but this is your task - the life and health of the Bulgarian citizens specifically. Let each of your partners you talk to do the same for your people, but your task is this and no other. I will end with the words and with optimism the Bulgarian people have managed and survived under conditions and after five centuries of Turkish slavery will overcome this problem too!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. Mrs. Daritkova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u18	Madam President, Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! GERB's parliamentary group believes that the proposed draft decision, which provides for the introduction of a state of emergency, is an absolutely necessary and timely measure, a measure that is being taken in a number of other countries around the world. We are facing a test and a crisis that will have different consequences - economic, social, probably political, but now it is very important to show that we are united that we are responsible and can work in the real interest of Bulgarian citizens. This measure introduces extraordinary measures, but this is necessary because we, as MPs, also need to move into an emergency mode of work. All proposals for legislative changes to be made by the ministers concerned may, as soon as possible, be introduced as a legal framework in order to enable measures to be taken to ensure that the spread of the infection is limited. I believe that here political bias should be left aside, to be nationally responsible and at the same time to reassure Bulgarian citizens that there is no cause for panic. We just want to call them to responsible behavior and ensure with our joint efforts that in this emergency situation the rights of Bulgarian citizens will be respected under art. 57, para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. I call on us unanimously to support this decision and to remain in work mode, which will allow all legislative changes to be implemented as quickly as possible, together with the Council of Ministers, with all those on the first line who are helping and struggling to tackle the Coronavirus challenge, to show that Bulgaria is doing well as it is so far!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u19	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. Any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the draft decision to declare a state of emergency which I read at the beginning of the sitting. They voted 201 MPs: for 201, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Thank you, colleagues, and thank you to the Council of Ministers. [[Applause.]] Here you are, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I just want to say to you that I am excited and proud of the Bulgarian Parliament for showing people that we can overcome not only contradictions but also think about our people first and foremost. Mrs. Nino, I propose to the parliamentary groups because we could easily say today... and. economic measures. I didn't do it because I expected this kind of behaviour in parliament. Secondly, it is not fair to the next, any government, as there is relatively little time until the next parliamentary elections, to make decisions and, which is the majority, to spend a lot of money easily. So thank you again. I propose that the parliamentary groups broadcast financial, economic or any expert and make a National Staff both for the coronavirus and for the consequences. This does not cancel the tasks, we will bring in two or three ministers, such as Donchev, Goranov, Karanikolov, along with your experts. Once again, this does not replace the Committees of Economics, Financial and the work of the ministers. But in a calmer business environment to know what money we have, how much we can spend and when we update the budget to know this oily state how to distribute it in the next time. [[Laughter]] It's exactly how much we can survive if this period stretches. I think this is very constructive and good for everyone so that we can be honest with each other. Thanks again. The Minister of Health and the Justice Minister remains with the two committees, today these proposals, which we have discussed, which to ban, what is not, to pass through the committees and to inform you. Thanks again. [[World applause from GERB and single ones from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u21	Thank you, Prime Minister. Colleagues, we're about to extend the legislative part. Now we continue with the point that was first for today and became second: SELECTION OF THE MANAGGER OF NATIONAL HEALTH CACUS. The selection procedure is in accordance with the Rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly on 19 February 2020. Colleagues, please don't leave, because the legislative part will continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I offer admission to the plenary room of Professor Petko Salchev who is a candidate for governor of the National Health Insurance Fund.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u23	Colleagues, please take your seats so that we can vote on the admission procedure in this Chamber! Please vote. They voted 116 MPs: 116, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Please invite Mr. Salchev to the gym. Mrs. Daritkova, before you begin, I will read the selection procedure and you will continue: Procedure for the selection of the Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund by the National Assembly 1. The meeting, which holds the election of the Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. The proposed candidates are present at the meeting by decision of the National Assembly. 2. The Committee on Health presents to the National Assembly a report for a hearing of candidates for taking up the position of the National Health Insurance Fund. 3. Each candidate shall be submitted by the importer of the selection proposal at an exhibition of two minutes. 4. Following the submission of the Report under point (c) of paragraph 1, the Commission shall, by means of implementing acts, adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of the report referred to in point (a) of Article 3 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council. 2 and candidates in accordance with the order of point 2. 3 The National Assembly shall hold debates on the submitted nominations under the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. During the debates, the Members of the National Assembly may raise questions to the candidates. 5. After the discussions are concluded, candidates as governor of the National Health Insurance Fund may make speeches and answer the questions raised to them in an exhibition within 10 minutes. 6. The vote is evident through the computerised voting system. 7. In cases where there are several candidates for the post of Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, the vote shall be carried out in alphabetical order on the applicant's own names, unless the National Assembly decides otherwise. 8. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. If several candidates have received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly, the candidate who received the most votes is elected. 9. If two or more candidates have received an equal number of votes, a re-vote shall be held between them. 10. Where none of the candidates receives the necessary votes, a re-vote shall be held in which the two candidates who have received the most votes for................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 11. If none of the candidates receives the necessary votes in the second vote, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. Here you are, Mrs Daritkova, to brief us on the Commission Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u24	♪ I can't believe on the hearing of the proposed candidate for governor of the National Health Insurance Fund under Section V of the Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates as governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and the hearing of candidates in the Committee on Health and the procedure for election by the National Assembly adopted by decision of the National Assembly on 19 February 2020. At its extraordinary meeting held on 11 March 2020, aired in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly, the Health Committee held a hearing of the proposed candidate for governor of the National Health Insurance Fund under Section V of the Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Health and the procedure for election by the National Assembly adopted by decision of the National Assembly on 19 February 2020. The meeting was attended by: Women Nacheva Deputy Minister of Health, representatives of word and patient organizations in the field of health. The President of the Commission, Dr. Daniela Daritkova, informed the Members of the National Assembly that at a regular meeting held on 5 March 2020, the Health Committee had carried out an inspection of the documents submitted by the applicant regarding the admission to a hearing under Section IV, i.e. 2 of the Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for the proposal of candidates for governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and the hearing of candidates in the Committee on Health and the procedure for selection by the National Assembly, hereinafter referred to as the Rules of Procedure. In the verification carried out, the Commission found that the proposed candidate meets the requirements of art. 19th para. Art. 3 and Art. 21 of the Health Insurance Act, on the basis of which a unanimous decision was adopted until a hearing in the Commission to allow Professor Petko Nenkov Salchev to be admitted. The hearing of the proposed candidate was held in accordance with Section V of the Rules of Procedure, with the aim of ensuring full publicity and transparency in the selection of the manager of the National Health Insurance Fund of the specialized thematic site on the website of the National Assembly the full stenographic protocol of the meeting is published. Professor Petko Salchev's candidacy as governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, proposed by the political party GERB parliamentary group, was presented by Dr. Daniela Daritkova. She informed the MPs that Professor Salchev has long-standing professional experience in the health care system, including in the management of the National Health Insurance Fund and in the management of hospital care facilities. Dr. Daritkova pointed out that the applicant meets the requirements for the appointment of the manager of the National Health Insurance Fund as defined in art. 19th para. 3 of the Health Insurance Act for acquired higher education with an educational-qualification degree and for professional experience in the field of health management. Professor Petko Salchev graduated from higher education with an educational and qualification degree at the Medical Academy of Sofia, in 1987 and Finance at the University of Veliko Tarnovo. St. Cyril and Methodius "in 2003" From 1996 to 1997 he held the post of Director of the Regional Health Center Sofia-City and from 2001 to 2003 he was the Executive Director of the University Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment. Between 2003 and 2005 he was Deputy Minister at the Ministry of Health with a portfolio of Politics and Health Management and a member of the Board of the National Health Insurance Fund. From 2011 to 2019 he has held the post of Director of the Department of Classification Systems, Standards and Innovation at the National Centre for Public Health and Analyses. From October 2019 to now he has been Deputy Executive Director of the Executive Agency "Medician supervision" with a portfolio of medical activities and quality assessment. Prof. Salchev is a researcher at the Macroeconomics Department at the Institute for Economic Research. He has led the Department of Social Medicine and Health Management at the Medical University of Sofia. He has passed consecutively through all the scientific and teaching degrees of assistant, senior assistant, senior assistant and associate professor. Since 2012 he has been professor of social medicine and organization of health and pharmacy. There are over 300 publications, of which 10 books and textbooks. He has acquired numerous specializations in Bulgaria and abroad. He speaks English and Russian. In conclusion, Dr. Daritkova pointed out that the parliamentary group of the Political Party GERB believes that Professor Petko Salchev has the necessary professional and moral qualities in order to be a successful governor of the National Health Insurance Fund. In his presentation Prof. Salchev noted that the National Health Insurance Fund is a state institution which applies the health policy of the state at operational level and protects the interests of the insured persons. The institution works in close coordination with the Ministry of Health and all structures of the healthcare system, with the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Finance, the National Insurance Institute. As an institution established in the years, the NHIF has acquired some of the weaknesses of a bureaucratic institution, which is a challenge for its transformation into a real administration aimed at citizens' interests. It is necessary to increase transparency in its activities and maintain its administrative memory, to digitalise the activities in order to reduce the administrative burden on citizens and contractual partners, to have coordinated actions with the Ministry of Health on the introduction of the National Health Information System, publicity in the work and spending of the funds, and to provide opportunities for real public control. In connection with the deepening demographic crisis Prof. Salchev pointed out that there should be work in several areas of the improvement of the effectiveness of preventive programs, mainly in children's and children's health care; development of models for risk assessment and opportunities for solving the narrow areas both in the management and in the provision of health services. For example, an assessment of the factors and risks in raising the percentage of births with seccio. more than 45% for Bulgaria at an average of 10-15% for Europe, and taking socio-economic measures to solve this problem, further development and deepening of possible approaches in providing long-term and coordinated health care for elderly people and risk groups of the population. As main priorities in the management of the National Health Insurance Fund, Prof. Salchev pointed to ensuring real control of the activities of the contract partners, both when spending the funds under contract with the National Health Insurance Fund and on the quality of the services provided, but in close collaboration with the other control bodies, Regional Health Inspections, the Executive Agency, the Drug Executive Agency and others, analysis and evaluation of possible approaches in paying for the activities of the contract partners in the long term by applying modern models, such as a case-mix approach, bundle payment, incentives for quality bonus-malus system, following their presentation and adoption to the Supervisory Board and the Ministry of Health, analysis of drug policy and offering approaches for the intensive coverage of patients with socially significant diseases, demand for approaches to reduce payments in health by citizens in cooperation with the medical supervision agency, the National Council on prices and reimbursing of medicinal products and other units of the system. The opportunity was given to the word and patient organizations to express their views on the proposed candidate. Representatives of the Bulgarian Medical Union and the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union addressed questions to Professor Salchev. During the discussion, the MPs raised main questions regarding the vision for the management of the National Health Insurance Fund presented by the applicant. Professor Salchev answered all questions specifically and comprehensively. On the basis of the hearing and the vote carried out on the following results: Annex No 1 List of proposed candidates as governor of the National Health Insurance Fund: 1. Professor Petko Nenkov Salchev Annex No 2 THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA PEOPLE'S COLLECTION Project! DECISION on the election of the Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 19th para. 1 of the Health Insurance Act HAS DECIDED He chose Petko Nenkov Salchev as the manager of the National Health Insurance Fund.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u25	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate, you have the floor to speak. Here you are, Mrs. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u26	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, Members of the National Assembly! There is one bad practice that is not now, when signing the National Framework Treaty, to give more and more public financial resources for medicinal products without them being ready, established and implemented in the relevant pharmacotherapeutic guidelines. At the moment, they are only over 20. The National Health Insurance Fund shall be obliged according to art. 72 of the Health Insurance Act, control their execution, and how to control something that is not there but buy medical activity? The reason? It lies in the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine. There it is written that the National Council of Prices and Reimbursement of Medicinal Products is the body that accepts, revokes and amends pharmacotherapeutic guidelines agreed with the relevant medical expertise or medical activities. My question to Professor Salchev is this: if he is elected governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, will this bad practice stop when signing the National Framework Treaty between the Casa and the Bulgarian Medical Association?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u27	Thank you, dear Mrs. Naydenova. Are there any lines? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? Mr. Chakarov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u28	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Our position on the proposed candidacy and choice is largely positive in view of the qualities that Professor Petko Salchev holds. We know about his work and the Ministry. And even where he worked, he was always successful. As for his qualities and what he would do, we hardly have any doubts about him, and we have no doubts at all. However, unfortunately, we are very worried and with huge reservations, and this is not the first time we will express this position in view of the functioning model of both the National Health Insurance Fund itself and what needs to be done in the healthcare system. Otherwise, in view of the statistics it has, and it is not good for so many years, perhaps it is the 19th Director or Manager of the National Health Insurance Fund, but since the model has not changed, we cannot expect much different quality and effectiveness of the work of the manager. However, we wish him a successful job in the name of all those who need and need the proper functioning of the National Health Insurance Fund at both national and regional level, especially in view of the complicated situation and situation in which we are present as a state. Here just minutes ago, we adopted important decisions by the National Assembly, which we will follow. So we will wish him success, but our reservations regarding the functioning of the model are clear. Even after the attempts and proposals Minister Ananiev made to reform the functioning of the health care system, it is evident that there are no further steps. In this regard, we are a little worried about the remaining little time until the end of the mandate. To a large extent, we do not share what Dr Daritkova said that there is no universal will to be realized. We at the DPS have repeatedly expressed our position that we are ready for consensus, for discussions, for demonopolising the Cassata, for the competitive principle. There are also a number of other documents and standards that need to be adopted, and I do not want to discuss them here today, so we are ready for such a dialogue and such a consensus. However, many times we have said and now we will stress that after the sovereign of the Bulgarian people, on the day of the elections and subsequently gives power, the ruling majority must bear the main subjectivity of responsibility for such a serious reform, which is late and should be carried out by all of us. We are also aware of our responsibility in view of the fact that the funds in the healthcare system are increasing and, unfortunately, the desired efficiency, quality and standards that we would like to have are not yet being achieved. And not to mention the payments and so on, there are many aspects that we have discussed here, from the high tribune of the National Assembly. So our reserves remain with regard to the functioning of the health system and the NHIF. Let us hope that consensus and will be formed all of this to be achieved with a view to really better and more efficient functioning of the system and, in particular, of the National Health Insurance Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Chakarov. You have the floor for lines. Here's your speech, Mr. Popovski.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u30	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! The group of the United Patriarchs was listening to parliamentary group candidate as governor of the National Health Insurance Fund Professor Petko Salchev at the level of the parliamentary group. The group will vote unanimously on Professor Salchev's announced candidacy. A lot of things were discussed at this meeting, a lot of rational ideas we heard from him and his expertise. My only question in his statement at the final will be the one I set at the parliamentary group level: does Professor Salchev think autumn after we vote on the last budget of this government with a mandate of the 44th National Assembly? The National Framework Treaty is signed, we know, between the National Health Insurance Fund in a dialogue with the Bulgarian Medical Union? That is, to take one percent ratio, like Germany, Austria, to one of those countries working on such a principle? We know that in the 20-year existence of the Bulgarian National Health Insurance Fund, some clinical pathways are refinanced at the expense of others who are heavily underfunded, that is to say, do we think that a proper ratio within the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund would lead to a relative peace in the system, perhaps the autumn this new budget will for the first time exceed 5 billion. lv.? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u31	Thank you, dear Mr. Popovski. Are there any lines? I can't see. Mr. Ademov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u32	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dear Mr. Minister, Dear Professor Salchev! The day 13th, Friday, from time immemorial, sparks fear and expectation of a fatal outcome. What an irony of fate on this day we choose another governor of the National Health Insurance Fund! Why am I saying this? Because the last mandate 2015 " 2020" was implemented by three brave men who could and showed character when necessary. Maybe that's why they went off on an unwritten basis bitterly with their political trust. Dear Professor Salchev, your concept of management of the National Health Insurance Fund, presented to the Committee on Health, generally includes the following few very important accents. First of all, improving prevention. Next, reducing the payments of medicinal products, progeny drug policy, changing the funding model, or as you have expressed yourself, the so-called kind of mutation of clinical pathways. None of these proposals, Professor Salchev, without political will can be fulfilled by any governor. This is because the manager's figure has long been devoid of unreasonable political decisions, which have turned the public health insurance fund into a kind of paying agency or, as some say, in the Directorate of the Ministry of Health. The manager implements the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund and the decisions of the Supervisory Board of the NHIF, both naturally and related legislation. He's deprived of any operational autonomy. In other words, forget individual uncoordinated shares, because practice shows that they are generally not healthy and, secondly, lead to conflicts with a known end. The legislation and the government require you to be a obedient and humble policy enforcer designed at other levels of management. I know that you are an established expert with an impressive business card, and you will find it difficult to fit into such a role, but still, I would still like to feel the fatalism of today to be replaced by an expectation of optimism and a successful mandate. I sincerely wish you a successful mandate!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u33	Thank you, dear Mr. Ademov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Mr. Yordanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u34	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear colleagues, Dear Professor Salchev! We will vote abstention. But we will vote abstention not considering your personal qualities as a health manager, as a manager and your professional development, and we will vote abstention because we had to change the status of the institution Manager of the NHIF in advance. Because in the old days, one of the governors of the NHIF did not understand who his principal was and wandered between the National Assembly and the Minister of Health. We believe that the institution Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund is unduly underestimated. He must have the opportunity to make substantial management decisions. Naturally, to be responsible for them and to be able to realize them. That is why we believe that we should have changed the status in advance. Professor Salchev, I will not ask you a question, but I wish you success because you have to make important decisions in relation to the situation in the country. In any case, the institution of the National Health Insurance Fund is one of the main ones, and I can also say the main one because it is carrying out funding. It defines the development, status and state of the Bulgarian national health system. You need to find the funds I think the reserve will not be enough to allow the National Health Insurance Fund to pay for the treatment of patients with CoVID-19. Whether there will be a special clinical path or not, you have to decide and provide its funding, which is very important I want to wish you success in this situation, because it must be nationally responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u35	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Dear Professor Salchev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u36	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will start with a few words, taking the thoughts that Professor Ademov said: The election of the governor of the National Health Insurance Fund takes place in an emergency situation on Friday 13th, which is actually a challenge to me for the following reasons. I have over 30 years of public health expertise. I have accepted this challenge so that I can respond to the present moment, taking into account the emergency situation. As a point of contact of the World Health Organisation in the field of primary health care and long-term care, I am constantly getting up-to-date information about the situation of the crisis in the whole of Europe and the whole world in relation to COVID-19. In this regard, I will not develop a long-term programme, and I would like to say that from now on, together with the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund and the Ministry of Health, I will make all my efforts to develop organizational methodological measures and financial restructuring in the activities of the Casa so as to respond to this challenge. I will propose on the basis of the analyses available to the National Health Insurance Fund, the National Centre for Public Health and Analysis, on the basis of all the data received by the National Headquarters, together with the Supervisory Board and the Ministry of Health, to develop such mechanisms to protect Bulgarian citizens, but also to provide the necessary care in the home and in the medical institutions and to protect those working in the healthcare system. I intend to conclude with the following paraphrase of a statement which has been adopted by the European Commission and the European Union. It says: Nothing is agreed until it is agreed, I declare that nothing is done until it is done. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u37	Thank you, dear Professor Salchev. Dear Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, dear Professor Salchev! Dr. Ademov, 13th Friday, for someone may be a nightmare day, but for many people it brings happiness, so let's wish Professor Salchev to bring him happiness and success! Since many things have been said, especially by Dr Daritkova, who introduced you to his CV, I have no intention of repeating it, but I will just say some things that are related to our personal relationship with Professor Salchev. He and I may have known each other for over two decades. We have worked in a variety of institutions that have had coordination with each other, we have had joint work and I can say that Professor Salchev and I have many common views on the state of the health sector and the things that should happen from now on. Of course, I say again, within the limits of the powers of both institutions. I think that at the hearing he clearly stated what is the function of the Ministry of Health as a body that makes the policy and functions of the National Health Insurance Fund as a financing institution of Bulgarian healthcare. I am convinced that Professor Salchev is a worthy professor, a very good administrator, a dialog person, a person who can and knows how to conduct the policy that has been defined for the sector. He'll prove that as soon as he's in office. I am deeply convinced that this will be the manager who will work professionally with the Ministry of Health and will seek the corresponding balance between these two institutions. Let me wish him luck too! I'm sure of it, I'll rely on it, and I think we'll work specifically and professionally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u39	Thank you, dear Minister. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the draft decision presented by the MP Daniela Daritkova. Please, voting mode. Vote 157 MPs: 108, against 1, abstention 48. The motion is accepted. The candidate has been selected. [[Applause.]] Professor Salchev, good luck to you! You've been in the eye of the storm since day one. May the 13th Friday be your lucky day! Dear Members of Parliament, I inform you that there is an urgent introduction and consideration of legislative initiatives related to overcoming the emergency situation of the CIVID-19 pandemic. It will also be proposed, as soon as they are submitted, as an exceptional item on the agenda for today's meeting. In this regard, I propose that the National Assembly extend today's plenary session and continue after the completion of the preliminary parliamentary control with legislative action until it is completed. Exceptional interruptions will be made if necessary in relation to the consideration of legislative initiatives. I shall put the proposal to the vote. They voted 142 MPs: 142, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. We are continuing the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u40	Honourable Members, we continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. Debates on the questioning of the MPs Georgi Gokov, Dragomir Stoinev and Vesela Lecheva to the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Mariana Nikolova on the policy of the Bulgarian government for guaranteeing the labour rights of Bulgarian workers and employees in the context of the started trilateral talks aimed at negotiating measures for reforms in key areas. Who will introduce us to the topic of the debate, fellow Members? Mr. Gokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u41	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister! Last week we had a question addressed to you. It basically referred to the start-up trilateral talks aimed at negotiating reform measures in key areas and by the rules of our Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly and the parliamentary control, with the necessary number of signatures we turned it into a debate. Now, honourable Members, I will present to you the draft decision and I will motivate it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u42	You have 10 minutes, so you can slow down.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u43	Thank you. Those talks that followed the joint proposal made at the end of last year by employers' organisations and trade unions to the government were discussed, agreed measures for reforms in key areas that were formulated as follows: business environment and economy, energy, demographics, education, labour market and labour migration, and social issues with sub-topics to negotiate more than 40 measures and legislative changes. These talks started in January this year. The final goal was to sign a tripartite agreement on key topics below the main topics for speeding up the economic development of the country and the idea was by the end of January to agree and sign a tripartite agreement on key topics to speed up this economic development of our country and by the end of April to propose a package of changes to the Labour Code. It is clear from the development of the conversations and from your response to my question last week that this will not happen or at least will not happen in this time schedule because, as far as is known, discussions continue at the moment. But I will mention again that it is strange that this is happening in closed meetings, provided that a complex balance of interests is needed, a broad public agreement and therefore it is unacceptable that these discussions, agreements remain hidden for the Bulgarian society. I have no doubt that there are many stakeholders in our country, including trade unions and employers who make efforts through the social dialogue that is being conducted in the country, to clarify their labour relations, to improve themselves, we have no doubt that the aim is to transpose the best regulations established by European Union directives, the International Labour Organisation, the European Social Charter and so on, but we have no doubt that each of the stakeholders will follow and defend their interests. Tripartite cooperation is an important element in preventing labour conflicts, and we must in no way make it a prerequisite for such conflicts. And although informal discussions cannot be reproachable, it is good to follow and respect the correct framework of tripartite cooperation, and it is outlined in the provisions of the Labour Code and expressed in consultations through discussions and compromises between the state and representative organisations of employees and employers in regulating labour and social security relations and on matters of living level. These consultations shall be conducted within the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation and shall be public. And so-called conversations aren't even public, you might even say they're classified. Even the national representation, which should be in the course of the trends in these consultations, in the case of the discussions in question, which have been held for more than two months with different intensity, can be informed about them... [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u44	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u45	...from what the media gets. Of course, questions and questions within the framework of parliamentary control can be put to rest, as this is impossible for trade unions and employers here. So was our question from the previous week. Then the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy, who is Chairman of the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation, gave information about the course of the talks, but it did not become clear the positions which support each of the countries, did not become clear what policies followed by the Bulgarian government in these talks in order to guarantee the labour rights of Bulgarian workers and employees. A number of things have become clear in the discussions, but the question has not been answered clearly: why are these discussions not formally held within the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation and why are they not public? Whose idea is this classified? Who are the talkers scared of? There is still doubt that society is isolated from these conversations so that there are no awkward questions, for example, are there demands and compromises from any of the countries that are to the detriment of anyone or the whole of society? It is observed that employers' organizations have undertaken a large-scale offensive against labour rights and which is more dangerous.. this offensive is disguised as reforms for accelerated economic development. There is nothing surprising and nothing unexpected about it, because it is in their interest. There is no surprise in the position of the trade unions, which will back this because they defend the interests of their members, workers and employees. Unfortunately, it is difficult to understand the state's position in these talks, especially when it comes to guaranteeing the labour rights of Bulgarian workers, for example, when discussing the opportunities for introducing extended working hours, increasing overtime hours or aggravating the procedures for granting benefits for temporary disability. Of course, it is necessary to agree and resolve a number of issues, such as: how we will overcome unacceptable inequalities; how to arrange for the pay of the night labor to be introduced and rules in the summation of the working time, for whom and how to introduce such accounting of the working time, because now we are allowed to apply the aggregate calculation of the working time everywhere, including in the state administration, and in violation of Convention No 1 of the International Labour Organisation and the Directive on Organisation of Working Time of the European Union, as well as violations in our legislation, the Labour Code and the Law on State Employees. And a delicate topic: to strengthen control over hospital and to specify their payment without reaching out to the interests of the workers and so on. Of course, in this absence of the labour market, we need to think about the possibilities for importing qualified labour, but only after the interest of local people is protected and guaranteed in every way. We need to think about electricity prices and energy carriers at all, policies in determining their prices not only for business, but also for the population. But why do other important topics sneak up on these important topics, which are a long-standing dream of employers' organizations and relate to working hours, overtime and so on, but on which there is no agreement and consensus neither between social partners nor among society? It's not clear. Is it reasonable to doubt whether, under the pretext of improving the business environment, increasing economic growth and updating the legislation concerning labour law, there are no other intentions.. e.g. providing disproportionate rights to employers at the expense of employees' rights? The maxim is known that one spoon of tar is enough to spoil a whole barrel of honey. Thus, good intentions are questioned, and when this is accompanied by a partial media eclipse, things are already taking on other dimensions. Perhaps the most painful and non-consense topic is overtime, and now, against the backdrop of increasingly frequent proposals from the governments of different European countries and the countries of America, that the future is at the lesser hours of work at the expense of higher productivity. Against this background, talks are held in Bulgaria and under pressure from employers' organizations are discussed radically opposing ideas about legislative changes that will lead to more overtime. Judging by the statements of the representatives of the government, such as the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, this idea is supported by the government. From there even comes the proposal that the sum of eligible overtime hours per year be doubled from 150 to 300 hours. In practice, this will lead to the possibility of daily working hours being extended by more than an hour. This gave reason to argue that under the pressure of capital the state wants to introduce a nine-hour working day, although for now it is said that this will only happen after collective bargaining between employers and trade unions. The risk of the workers being forced to work more, not to do it at their own will, is quite real when the opportunity opens up, there will be no stopping. And now, despite the ban on overtime, this is difficult to control, even when the worker signals violations, even when the Labour Inspection intervenes. I can continue to motivate the need for transparency in the discussions and to plead for them to be held within the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation or its sub-advises, as is the case under Bulgarian law, and thus ensure the necessary transparency. I would like to say that it is not bad that the social partners and representatives of the government have undertaken to hold meetings in a different format, depending on the sectoral policy under discussion. Although not regulated in the Law format, let us identify topics from the relevant area for discussion and have flexibility in their scope and number. It is good that analyses will be carried out, debates will be held and common views will be sought, but it is even better to do so in the eyes of the people of the Bulgarian society. That is why we from the parliamentary group Mrs. Mariana Nikolova proposed to the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria to adopt the following decision: The Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Mrs. Mariana Nikolova is obliged to present information on a monthly basis to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy of the National Assembly on the course of negotiations between the government, employers and trade unions aimed at negotiating the reform measures. Madam President, allow a correction to the text of the Decision that we have made.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u46	Yeah, I saw her.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u47	There, in the last sentence: based on its sovereign right to guarantee the country's energy security and independence to fall, because for technical reasons there was a previous decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u48	Yeah, I noticed that. Without it being based on this, we're not going to put it to the vote. Okay, I'll take that as a technical error. Thank you. Mrs. Angelova, please also submit your draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u49	Mrs. President, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Social dialogue is a major feature of the European social model. Social dialogue is conducted at different levels and in different forms, and the aim is to participate social partners in the decision-making process aimed at improving the economic environment and living standards of people. It has been found that countries with developed industrial relations and accordingly developed social dialogue are among the most developed internationally. Governments in the Member States of the European Union are making huge efforts to develop and maintain social dialogue and tripartite cooperation. In this process, none of the possible forms should be ignored. At the end of last year, the government and the social partners agreed to start meetings and talks on key issues from the country's development in order to prepare and sign a national tripartite agreement. The key areas discussed are: economic environment, business, energy, education, labour market, labour migration, social protection and others. Meetings are held in different formats and at different intervals with the participation of different experts and representatives of the government according to the range of issues discussed. The idea is, before decisions are made, all topics are subject to in-depth expertise. The proposed solution on today's debate obliges the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy to submit monthly information on trilateral negotiations to the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee. Given the informal nature of trilateral meetings and conversations, it could not be known whether a meeting will be scheduled each month. Also, much of the talks are entirely expert and hardly any information that is suitable for the presentation of the parliamentary committee can be extracted. Given these arguments, we propose that the requested information be presented in writing every three months.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u50	Mrs. Angelova, if you could present the decision in full.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u51	Okay. Project! DECISION in connection with the debate on questions No 054-05-13 of 26 February 2020, tabled by the MPs Georgi Gokov, Dragomir Stoynev and Vesela Lecheva to the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Ms. Mariana Nikolova on the policy of the Bulgarian government for guaranteeing the labour rights of Bulgarian workers and employees in the context of the start of tripartite talks aimed at negotiating measures for reforms in key areas The National Assembly on the basis of art. 90, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 105, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED It obliges the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Mrs. Mariana Nikolova to submit to the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee of the National Assembly written information on the course of negotiations between the government, employers and trade unions aimed at negotiating reform measures.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u52	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. My fellow Members, I am opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mrs. Lecheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u53	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today, in the situation in the state, in the context of the state of emergency for everyone, it is already clear that there are many structural problems in Bulgaria: ineffective and unsustainable social systems, deep-rooted feeling of injustice, unreformed social spheres, such as education and health care. The implementation of substantial reforms in a number of sectors for 10 years remains in the background and exist only as abstract ideas in strategies and programmes. Today, uncertainty before society is not a surprise, but normality. As a result of all this, the lowest incomes and the worst demographic perspective in Europe for Bulgaria. The ever more frequent crises and protests shape the nature and style of this government at certain times, the management of a piece, the lack of sustainability and predictability in government decisions. Numerous protests are the clearest sign of the absence of normal and open dialogue with civil society structures. This government shows that it is the most successful and brave in crisis management and the weakest and the most frightening, cowardly approach when it comes to reforms. The weather today is the toughest judge for Bulgaria. We risk staying in line in the position of ever catching up with the so desired European standards of life, income and, above all, European standards of governance. While Bulgaria is drifting along the current, Europe is moving towards new priorities of digitalization, green and shared economy and we can continue the list. A generally good intention since the end of last year for a national tripartite agreement between the social partners and the government for necessary reforms on specific social economic measures is about to be corrupted and to remain only one separating people and institutions a good wish. There are various signals in relation to specific discussions.. There are 40 measures in terms of four directions: business environment, economy, education, labour market and labour migration, social issues. However, there is no clarity at the moment, is this agreement signed? If not, what are the deadlines? There was talk of a term by the end of January, and we are now mid-March and all these deadlines are so far only illusory. When does the Trilateral Commission get called up? Does he normally have to meet every month or are the talks outside of this format because of a lack of government initiative?! Too much secrecy for reached agreements, perhaps, so that we don't witness and co-conspirators of honest bargaining between employers and trade unions?! So far, there is no clarity about the government's line, there is no clear position on what the main objectives of this agreement is and what this government wants to achieve, there is no policy and vision on the specific directions of the social partners, there is no vision of the government. In the last few days, for example, the topic of hospital services has come to light. There are accusations of the kind of workers lying, and, on the other hand, the workers are lying. No one, for example, examines the nature of these hospital..................................................................................................... The night's work. The pay for night labor is a topic put by BSP a long time ago. You know about our proposals in the alternative budget, which presents our attention every year, but, unfortunately, without a result, it is now twenty-five pennies and is proposed to be no less than one lev, but all this is without a clear methodological basis on which to set these rates. Thus, for years no mechanism was found to determine the minimum wage. These are issues that deserve an open debate for all stakeholders. That is why we want, in addition to information, an open dialogue in the National Assembly on the main accents in the given directions by the social partners, which will eventually be dressed in effective solutions and by the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u54	Thank you, dear Mrs. Lecheva. - What's the line? Here you are, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u55	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! I believe that today's debate is extremely important because the talks relating to reforms in labour law are not from yesterday, are not from December, as is said, they started at the end of 2018. Even then the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy sent its letter-proposal for reforms in labour law and that we are currently having this debate... We didn't interrupt to bring him. As early as February last year, we asked the former Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov about reforms in labour legislation. Unfortunately, what is becoming clear, and it is not very clear, is that the loophole of employers is opening, which are in the direction of liberalisation of the labour market and more insecurity on the part of workers. I am inconclusive and I think it is unacceptable that we, the MPs, are unaware of the state's positions, repeating the state's position, in terms of reforms in labour law and which are these violets, which they will not cross in the interests of employers. Because issues related to labour law are issues that affect absolutely all Bulgarian workers. I have something important to say. Bulgaria is fifth in the European Union by the amount of working time. We do the most and the least paid work. The organisation of the labour process and the proper implementation of the regulatory requirements relating to working time are extremely important, as well as the search for solutions on our part for non-compliance. The continuing work and what frightens us from the information in the media is that the state's position is currently linked to an increase in the aggregated calculation of working time from 6 to 12 months to go through collective bargaining. The other startling thing is related to overtime, which in art. 143 of the Labour Code is regulated as inadmissible, as a forbidden one there are exceptions in the following articles of the Labour Code, but what the state is currently proposing is an increase in overtime from 150 to 300 hours. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, I would very much like your answer here on several specific topics. Each of us who is familiar with the conventions of the International Labour Organisation knows that Convention No 1 of 1919 regulates the length of working time and it is of limited size. Let's take a look at the members in our Labour Code, which regulate the aggregated calculation of working hours and what is the duration of working hours. Fifty-six hours. And what does the convention say? Forty-eight hours. Let us look at the 2003/88 directive, which is also supranational legislation. If we know the Constitution and the regulations of the Constitution, these directives that we have ratified are above national law. Are they in line with the Labor Code? I don't think that's why I'm keeping these answers in the room today. With regard to overtime, we introduce an opportunity in collective bargaining to increase overtime from 150 to 300 hours. Why? What is this interest and whose interests are we protecting, since overtime is prohibited or where we have a summated calculation of working hours? The position of all of us as MPs should be mandatory in art. 143, para. 3 of the Labour Code, to be new, should be introduced a ban on overtime in the case of an aggregated calculation of working time. A very important document I have with me now. [[The National Representative shall show a document.]] Last year, the Economic and Social Council prepared a document relating to the aggregated calculation of working time. Get acquainted with it - an extremely important document showing all the problems of the sum totaled calculation of working time. What it turns out is that Bulgarian workers are currently working more, but they are not getting enough because we have opened the door in our labour law. I hope that today in this Chamber we will hear answers from the state about the non-interruption of the borders, which will liberalize the Bulgarian labour law even more, because by opening these opportunities and the few Bulgarian workers left in the country will leave it. I don't want to concern the topics of night labor that we have been putting on for two years. I hope they find a solution, but I think the state's behaviour is extremely adequate. It would be appropriate to think that there has been no revision of the rate for night work since the twelfth year, and it is not adequate for any economic indicator. People who work at night are at risk for their health. The bad news is that the state has no vision on this issue either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. Are there any lines? I can't see. Mr. Ademov, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The discussion held by the National Assembly on the occasion of asking colleagues from BSP about Bulgaria is interesting from the point of view that colleagues want to understand what are the intentions of employers and trade unions regarding possible future changes in labour legislation. I understand this is the right of each of the parliamentary groups, all the more so that colleagues from BSP for Bulgaria have a social profile and this is the topic that they are vitally interested in as a political party, but here are a few things we need to clarify. Firstly, if we want to hear the state's position, we can do this under blitzcontrol, we can do it within parliamentary control. The state's position can only be on legislative initiatives, on something that is already a fact, and here we are talking about something that is not yet in legal peace, is not even in a phase of discussion, is not something that is regulated somewhere. Over the years, we have always welcomed when employers and trade unions come to an agreement. I stress that such an agreement is generally very difficult to achieve. What the employers and trade unions have done or want to do at this stage deserves congratulations from the point of view that they are looking for opportunities to increase economic growth, they are looking for opportunities in the end for a better standard of living for Bulgarian citizens. It is natural that there is no way to ignore labour and social security rights. There is no way to cross this line that you are talking about, and that line is in the legislation, in the Labour Code. Now we need to say a few words about what arises from today's discussion. Honourable Members, what they are negotiating, negotiating or have reached agreement or have not reached agreement, I am convinced that the context of today's decision of the National Assembly must undergo a radical change because the emergency situation requires measures to be adequate. We're talking about overtime right now. Of course he's outlawed by the Labour Code, and there are exceptions. Should the exceptions include the current commitments of the healthcare system, for example, if they will be quarantined and will not be able to go home? So they should have the opportunity for flexible working hours. Why am I saying this? I stress overtime and working time, because the current crisis implies flexible opportunities for employers to adapt to specific conditions, otherwise we will find it difficult to implement the policies expected by society. It is no coincidence that the Labour Code regulates the regulatory, legal way of dialogue between employers' organisations and employees' organisations. Dear colleagues, let us recall that trade unions and employers' organisations are registered under the Non-profit Legal Entities Act. They are registered as associations in a private benefit, so it says in the Law, and as such, what should we do now? We need to see what negotiations they are negotiating, what conversations they are having, can we in any way influence them? The only thing that the National Assembly can do, in my opinion, at the moment when there is a legislative proposal, is clearly to everyone in this House who is entitled to a legislative initiative, is when they reach the relevant institutional authorities of the state for dialogue, then to ask for different opinions, different positions, to hear an opinion. If we want to hear the opinion of trade unions and employers, we can't formalise it in any way, because at some point they can negotiate, negotiate, reach conclusions and then change them. With this dynamic in their talks, we have no way of seeing and I see no point in entering the kitchen of the negotiations, because at the moment when there is an official solution, at the moment when there is an official position, for example these 40 measures that we are talking about now, given that there is agreement on them, we need to see what the state's position will be. The state's position on the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation is to be corrective. If there is a crossover of international legal documents, if there is a crossing of orders to tell the International Labour Organisation, European directives, the European pillar of social and social security rights, then the state will naturally take its place. Lawmakers will also have an opportunity. Now, the desire for transparency of the so-called unborn Petko, I apologize for this expression, but that is exactly what this is about -- on the one hand -- is justified because, anyway, the insurance rights need to be transparently defined. On the other hand, the legislation in force in the Labour Code, in which these decisions are proposed, there is a Law on Legislative Acts, there is a Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers, there is a public discussion, an impact assessment and so on, not to list all the arguments, allows for this transparency. Therefore, by welcoming the interest of colleagues from BSP to Bulgaria, I would like to call on them again that in such situations we should also comply with the legislation in force, which I have just tried to define. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u58	Thank you, dear Mr. Ademov. Are there any lines? We continue with the speeches. Mr. Gokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u59	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! I would just like to assure you that we do not expect us to question the right of social partners to have talks, negotiations, debates and so on, whether formal or informal. It is another question whether the form of these talks should be what it is in this case, because predictability and calmness, lack of tension that is harmful to any reform or change, are guaranteed by rules and transparency. This transparency largely obliges the parties to seek balance in their public interest interests, so the desire for transparency remains. Since the talks will be informal in terms of extremely important for the economic development of the country, I informally suggest that we consider extending the circle of the speakers. I know that what I am about to propose will be fiercely opposed by the national organisations of employers and trade unions, in all likelihood by the people's representation, but why not include in these talks and representatives of smaller trade unions of employers' organisations who have failed to meet the criteria for representation? There's nothing to be afraid of. They do not suffer from casionity syndrome and may come up with interesting suggestions. Why not be included in these talks and representatives of the scientific circles, such as the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, the Bulgarian VUMs? I've heard a lot of reproach on the scientific community that they don't contribute to the economic development of the country. Well, how can they help if we're not looking for them?! Let them participate in the debates, to propose, and the final decision will still be of the social partners of the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation and, as by law, of the national representation, of course, of the National Assembly. Is it going to be a problem for MPs or their assistants to attend these meetings?! And something at first glance, aside from the subject. I would like to suggest that the participants in these talks by the government, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, to you I appeal, to provoke a debate in the context of a topic that seems distant and abstract, but it is not. This is the topic of the future of labour and its digitalization and related challenges and problems. The advance of science and technology, which we can conditionally call digitalization, poses a number of global challenges and problems, along with everything else, and in labour relations. With the development of high technology and their rapid deployment nowadays, these problems not only become up-to-date, but become durable and sharp. And from the point of view of social policy, challenges arise which need to be solved in an operational and long-term way. An active public dialogue is needed to prepare and coordinate common actions to address the challenges arising from digitalisation. There is also a clear need for adequate legislation to regulate the role of this digitalization of labour and of the human factor in the labour market. And this should be a priority for statesmen, politicians, trade unions and employers, so there is no problem being the subject of such talks. If trade unions and employers do not provoke such a conversation, the representatives of the state should do so. We will now comment on the draft decision submitted by a group of MPs from GERB and the United patriots. Here I will turn to you, colleagues, that you have remained true to yourselves and tabled your proposal in parallel. I don't know why you're doing this, maybe stubborn, but I have no other explanation. Don't worry, I think that even if you accept our proposal, there is no one to blame you in weakness if you really support it. Now I'll tell you why I think so. Your proposal is not adequate because there are stated intentions by the end of January this year to agree and sign a tripartite agreement on these notorious key topics to speed up the economic development of the country and to propose by the end of April a package of changes to the Labour Code. Although the talks have dragged on, I do not see your proposal for three months how it corresponds to this intention. I say again, even though the conversations have dragged on and the way you edited the solution is just pulling the numbers over. I don't want to say that you want opaque, because I don't think it is, but I don't know what you're doing. You're hiding the minister from coming to the National Assembly or I have no idea. And since you're a majority, you'll probably accept what's really inappropriate. But I warn you that instead of the Deputy Prime Minister we are addressing now, at the moment, to report or send to the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee every month information, if it is going to be written, about the course of the talks and the positions of the people's representation, or even I, believe that I am saying it, not as a threat, but we will call it within the framework of parliamentary control every month, for example, the last Friday of the month, in the Chamber to give this information. Figure out what's better now! Should we send once a month written information to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy and people get to know it, or should we call you every month from the parliamentary platform to answer the question of how these conversations are taking place? As you wish, I appeal for reason on your part and to support our Project Decision, however you choose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u60	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Mr. Sirakov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u61	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! I would divide the situation into two.. before today and after today or before the situation we are in and after. Perhaps your question in one way would have seemed a week ago, although at the time I was slightly confused by the desire for this debate, as you claim to be in the dark about some conversations that are a public debate, so that anyone who wishes can get acquainted with what is being debated. You are in the dark, on the other hand, at the moment I have heard your criticism of policies, measures, at all the ideas of the Ministry in different areas, that is, the two things are opposed to me. If you have no information about what is happening, how could you criticize these things, or are these just possible hypotheses? And the situation we're in today. Certainly after today, it is clear to us all, as the Prime Minister said just now, about the creation of a different group, which is officially not institutionalized anywhere, but it is desirable to exist by economists, by experts, including in social activity, in my opinion there should be experts, in labour law, so that all those issues that are ahead of us and which we will have to resolve in operational order, and in the situation that we are currently in. Which suggests that, at least in the coming months, all these discussions, debates, measures that have different parliamentary groups, the government, even social partners, will be widely discussed. But this should happen, and it will happen in a very operational and rapid order. From now on, things can't be done in secret if you had any doubts that they were going on in secret today. And, of course, the world after this crisis will not be what it was before it. Surely we must become much more flexible. Surely there must be much greater hearing between stakeholders and certainly the information, and the exact information, the expert information provided in the correct, understandable language, must quickly reach the population, in the fastest way so that it does not distort policies, intentions and measures that the National Assembly or the Government wishes to adopt. I will agree with you that it is good to have information about how the discussions and debates are currently taking place, but I do not think that this should really happen every month. That's why our proposal is to happen once every three months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u62	Thank you, dear Sirakov. - What's the line? Are there any other statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u63	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Deputy Prime Minister, guaranteeing the labour rights of Bulgarian workers and employees, especially in the expected economic crisis, which is coming not only in Bulgaria, but also around the world, against the background of this I welcome the debate caused by the colleagues from BSP. This is a very important topic and I would also like to draw attention to the colleague who said that the situation could be divided into before and now. I agree with everything that has been said so far, and I do not want to repeat myself, but I would like to draw attention to the fact that many countries where such a crisis with the coronavirus is being set up have taken economic measures and packages to help businesses, as their losses are expected to be very large. In the context of today's discussion, I would like to call once again, as we have initiated a legislative initiative in the summer for the state to take over the first three days of temporary incapacity, to fulfill its agreement with the business as early as 2010, so I call on the government to do so now. Even if it isn't the first three working days, the financial burden between the state and the business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u64	Thank you, dear Mrs. Christova. Are there any lines? Any other speeches? I don't see any other speeches. I'm closing the debate. You have the floor to speak, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u65	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As I have already had the opportunity to say, in its activities the Bulgarian government guarantees the labour rights of the people, based on the legislation in the country and the Management Program. Particularly comprehensive are the texts in the Labour Code, guaranteeing workers' labour rights. The aim is to ensure freedom and labour protection, fair and decent working conditions, as well as social dialogue between the state, employees, employees, employers and their organisations for the settlement of employment and directly related relations. The State shall regulate labour relations, social security and life-level issues directly and directly related, after consultation and dialogue with employees, employees, employers and their organisations in a spirit of cooperation, mutual concessions and respect for the interests of each Party. Of course, we should not miss Bulgaria's international commitments in the field of labour relations. They must also be in line with a number of international acts, the European Union directives, the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, the European Social Card, the conventions and recommendations of the International Labour Organisation and others. At the end of December 2019 at their meeting, representatives of the government and social partners, national representative employers' organisations, national representative employees' organisations decided to start talks with the aim of preparing a national tripartite agreement. The reason for this intention is the will to develop national social dialogue and collective bargaining, as well as the need to speed up the processes of improving the economic environment and living standards of the population. Important reasons are also the need to meet the challenges facing the country as part of the European Union, to build a modern competitive economy and to overcome social and regional imbalances, as well as to make effective use of the mechanisms of the European Semester and the principles of European social rights, including through the active inclusion of social partners. The way the talks are conducted is to identify key areas of the country's development and then to conduct analyses, to conduct debates and to seek common views. These areas are business environment and economy, energy, demographics, education, labour market, labour migration, social protection. The social partners and representatives of the government have agreed to hold meetings in different formats depending on the sectoral policy under discussion. Topics from the relevant area are also targeted, which will be discussed and the scope and number of topics can be changed depending on the discussions themselves. I would like to refer again to the issues that are of greater importance as follows: raising a national priority; adopting Bulgaria in the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development; Schengen area; ERM II; implementing common concerted policies and measures of the state and social partners to combat the grey economy and undeclared work, corruption, continuing administrative reform; developing and implementing measures to promote investment in less developed and backward regions; speedy building of e-government; taking measures aimed at supporting and easing the activities of small and medium-sized enterprises; adopting a balanced national energy strategy by 2030, with a view to 2050, based on a real assessment of national priorities, and promoting innovation and technologies in the production, storage and supply of energy; developing a complex of measures against the demographic crisis; changing structure, management and financing of higher education to promote the country'simplementation ; introducing new elements offamily- basedtaxation ; reinventing negotiations on the development and a transparent mechanism to strengthen the minimumwage. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u66	Excuse me, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, would you mind waiting? Guys, there's a lot of noise in the room. Please take your seats and wait for Mrs. Nikolova to finish. We'll wait, let the MPs take their seats, we'll wait. Colleagues, please take your seats! Please continue!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u67	Establishment of a working group with the participation of social partners in the development of a draft National Plan for the implementation of the European Pillar of Social Rights with measures and policies and others. In my reply to the inquiry during parliamentary control, I informed you of two meetings held. There's four meetings today. The discussions held are on different economic and social topics that concern directly or indirectly labour rights. There are still no clear questions on which to reach a common agreement and to have a specific. Of course, with concrete proposals, they will be discussed and debated in an open meeting at the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u68	Thank you, dear Mrs. Nikolova. Colleagues, we're going to vote. I will present to you the draft decisions in the order of their submission to the Court of Justice and will read them to you as they have been submitted. First draft decision: Project! DECISION in relation to the questions referred to in Article 054-05-13 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, 26 February 2020 by the MPs Georgi Gokov, Dragomir Stoinev and Vesela Lecheva to the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Ms. Mariana Nikolova on the policy of the Bulgarian government for guaranteeing the labour rights of Bulgarian workers and employees in the context of the start-up of trilateral talks aimed at negotiating measures on reforms in key areas The National Assembly on the basis of art. 90, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 105, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, HAS DECIDED It obliges the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Ms. Mariana Nikolova to submit to the National Assembly's Labour and Social Policy Committee on a monthly basis information on the progress of the negotiations between the government, employers and trade unions aimed at negotiating the reform measures. Please, voting mode. They voted 145 MPs: 55 against 62, abstention 28. The offer is not accepted. I give you the second one: Project! DECISION in relation to the questions referred to in Article 054-05-13 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, 26 February 2020, submitted by the MPs Georgi Gokov, Dragomir Stoinev and Vesela Lecheva to the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Ms. Mariana Nikolova on the policy of the Bulgarian government for guaranteeing the labour rights of Bulgarian workers and employees in the context of the start of the trilateral talks aimed at negotiating measures on reforms in key areas The National Assembly on the basis of art. 90, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 105, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED It obliges the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Mrs. Mariana Nikolova to submit to the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee of the National Assembly written information on the course of negotiations between the government, employers and trade unions aimed at negotiating reform measures. Please, voting mode. They voted 146 MPs: 142, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. We continue with parliamentary control. I'll introduce you to the new questions for the period 6 March 2020. A request was received from the MP Rumen Vassilev Gechev to Vladislav Goranov, Minister of Finance, about the organization and activity of exchange of data between the Customs Agency and the National Statistical Institute. The response should be made in plenary on 20 March 2020. A question was received from the MPs Georgi Yordanov, Georgi Mihaylov, Ilian Timchev, Desislav Taskov, Valentina Naydenova, Ivan Ibrishimov and Anna Slavova to Kiril Ananiev, Minister of Health, on the drug strategy in the Republic of Bulgaria. The response should be made in plenary on 20 March 2020. A question was received from MP Rumen Gechev to Vladislav Goranov, Minister of Finance, about the real amount of payments due to the budget from the state-licensed gambling companies in the gambling business. The response should be made in plenary on 20 March 2020. Written answers from: - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Kristian Vigenin; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to two questions from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Culture Boyl Banov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the MPs Georgi Gokov, Philip Popov, Anastas Popdimitrov, Vasil Antonov, Vesela Lecheva, Ilian Timchev, Krum Zarkov and Stoyan Mirchev; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a question from the MPs Filip Popov and Tsvetan Topchiev; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on two questions from the National Representative Irena Anastasova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to a question from the MPs Ilian Timchev and Desislav Taskov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to a question from the National Representative Georgi Yordanov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on a question by the MPs Dragomir Stoinev and Tasco Ermenkov. We continue with questions and questions. Question to Mariana Nikolova "Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy," which will answer a question from the National Representative Krastina Taskova, concerning measures taken following the recommendations in the Report of the Temporary Committee of inquiry to clarify all the facts and circumstances surrounding the case of draining information from the electronic database of the National Revenue Agency. You have the floor to ask the question, dear Mrs. Taskova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, dear colleagues! Dear Deputy Prime Minister, on 20 February 2020, the National Assembly adopted the Report of the Temporary Committee of Inquiry to clarify all the facts and circumstances surrounding the information case, which became clear for data draining by the National Revenue Agency. The recommendations from the Report, I will recall, were the following: to carry out an audit of the systems of all central and municipal administrations prioritized to the amount of personal data and potential risk; the management of the NRA to take the necessary actions to fully implement the requirement of the E-Management Act, the Ordinance on general requirements for network information security and related internal rules and procedures regarding compliance with network information security requirements in order to prevent incidents and collapse of supporting information systems; to introduce requirements for the configuration of specialised software for the detection and prevention of penetrations, as well as to conduct mandatory tests for penetration at least once a year depending on the risk, in order to detect vulnerability; to conduct mandatory trainings of experts responsible for the development, deployment and maintenance of information systems both initial and follow-up; to review the payment of expert IT personnel and to increase its levels eligible by the Classifier of administrative posts; when building new information sets containing data on physical and legal persons and in the maintenance of existing authorities; and competent authorities to take seriously consideration into account and the protection of the law on the protectional and cyber-control of data; to ensure for the personal and cyber-based services; Since my time is limited, I suppose you are familiar with the additional recommendations that the National Assembly has taken, so I move directly to my question: how will you proceed and within what time limits regarding the recommendations given by the National Assembly? Have you made the necessary estimates as to what funds you will need to make recommendations if you intend to comply with them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u70	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taskova. You have the floor to answer, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u71	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Ms. Taskova, I am aware of the recommendations made in the Temporary Committee Report on clarification of all the facts and circumstances surrounding the case of the draining of information from the electronic database of the National Revenue Agency and I would like to inform you of the following. The government is actively working and implementing its cybersecurity policy by taking a number of measures. Already in 2018, the Cyber Security Act was adopted and promulgated, which for the first time introduced regulation in this area, creating clear rules. In 2019, on 26 July the Ordinance on minimum network and information security requirements, which introduces requirements for minimum network information security measures, recommended network information security measures, rules for carrying out compliance checks with the requirements of this Regulation, as well as the procedure for keeping, storing and accessing the register of essential services under art. 6 of the Cybersecurity Act, as well as a model of incident notifications. The work on most of the recommendations made in the Report has started with the adoption of the Ordinance in July 2019. It provides for at least once a year mandatory internal audits to be carried out, organised by the institution and carried out by its employees or by a third party, but not on its behalf; recommended external audits to be organised by clients or suppliers of the institution; recommended external audits to be carried out by independent organisational audit, such as executive control bodies or organisations entitled to carry out accreditation and certification. There are also such requirements for the configuration of software and its protection. It is the responsibility of administrative authorities to implement appropriate measures to protect against penetration and measures to detect and deal with malware, which also include penetration tests, but also other appropriate measures, which are laid down in the same Regulation. In connection with the entry into force of the Ordinance on the minimum requirements for network information security at the end of November 2019, a number of trainings on network information security of employees from central and municipal administrations, operators of essential services and digital service providers have also been conducted. The training was organized and carried out by the State Agency. With regard to the recommendation in the Report amending the Criminal Code, I would like to inform you that on 24 February 2020 proposals for amendments to the Code and its motives to the Ministry of Justice have been sent to the Ministry of Justice, and briefly the proposals are as follows: increasing the penalties throughout Chapter 9 "Computer crimes' with a view to increasing threats to public relations arising from the development of the Internet space and including new qualified compositions in attempts to break through sites that are part of the critical infrastructure of the state. On the second point, it should be borne in mind that a large part of the recommendations in the report are aimed primarily at taking organisational measures, and therefore most of them do not need funds. As regards measures for which expenditure is necessary, it is necessary to note that, under the regulatory framework, the obligations relating to cybersecurity, in particular to the provision of network information security conditions, belong to the heads of administrative structures. As regards the payment of expert staff dealing with information technology, it is possible that individual basic monthly salaries of staff holding IT posts and of the heads of the structural units in which they have such posts may exceed by up to 60 per cent the maximum basic monthly salary for the relevant level and level of basic monthly salary under Annex No 1 of the same Regulation in agreement with the Chairman of the Administrative Reform Council. The application of this option is the commitment of the head of each administration and depends on the funds provided for in the approved budget of each individual administration. In this sense, the funds needed for the Fund should be provided for by the heads of each administrative body in the preparation of their 3-year forecasts. As I mentioned above, the current legal framework allows the payment of experts dealing with information technology to be determined on a market basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u72	Thank you, dear Mrs. Nikolova. You have the floor for a line, Mrs. Taskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Nikolova, as the main and first measure that you mentioned, is the adoption of the Cyber Security Act in 2018. It is clearly insufficient because if we rely entirely on this measure, we would not find ourselves in a situation in 2019 where the personal data of the NRA system was drained from six million. The other measures that you are listing, since they will not be financially supported, remain more desirable and, as I understand it, you have just stated that the heads of all units have left IT specialists without the necessary salaries and, in fact, all the responsibility for this situation is in them. I hope in your duplicate you will give more clarification: they have not offered you an increase in these salaries, they have not asked you to increase the funds to protect the personal data of all Bulgarian citizens or have asked and the government has not approved them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u74	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taskova. Would you like the word for the doppelganger, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u75	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Taskova, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Cybercrime is a social phenomenon that does not recognise borders, takes advantage of the ever-growing globalisation of new technologies, regional and national crises in the countries, whether economic, political or military. Every day we witness large-scale and diverse cyber attacks, causing huge damage to companies and Internet users from around the world, and the same are a fact in our country as well. Moreover, cybercrime and Internet use successfully and effectively favours any remaining criminal activity at national and transnational level, which could cause huge damage to the budget in the private sector and to citizens. There is a complication of cyber security across Europe, for which evidence is the 2019 report of the Europol Cyber Security Centre, which reports that cybercrime is becoming more and more daring, and their focus is being seized for greater and more profitable goals. The government has strong political will to improve the network and information security of administrative structures and also to take legislative measures with a view to preventing computer crime. In addition to changes in the legislative framework and the organisation of the work of administrative structures, we as citizens should strive to become more responsible on the Internet and to respect cyber behavior so that we do not prejudice the rights of those around us. As regards the current legal framework, as I have pointed out, there is already an opportunity for them to be brought into a state that meets adequate market principles, provided that the Head of Administration so requests and agrees with the Chairman of the Administrative Reform Council and with the provision of a budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u76	Thank you, dear Mrs Nikolova, and for participating in today's parliamentary control. We are moving on to a question to Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov. He will answer a question from the MP Pavel Shopov about whether she received Bulgaria during the current mandate of the government military assistance from abroad. Here you go, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u77	Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, this is Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! Because last time from the National Assembly stands, you called the Vice-President of the Party Ataka and a member of parliament in five national meetings Mr. Chukolov unrespectable gentleman. [[Replications from OP.]] And I'm going on about it. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, as Secretary of Defense! As is known, in the third Bulgarian country Bulgaria received numerous grants from close or allied countries. After the Russo-Turkish liberation war, she received tens of thousands of barrels of Crimea, Berdana 1 and Berdana 2 and guns, left pontoons from the bridge on which the liberators for entry through Svishtov, boats, ships and whatnot, for cannons not to mention. In the years prior to the First World War Bulgaria received free machine guns, guns, guns [[Replications from OP.]] Next and for free, because someone here suggests. Somebody's guessing.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u78	Don't engage in dialogue, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u79	In the years leading up to World War II, I don't have time to describe the size of this free military aid, including, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you made one mistake here once in one of your appearances, with what fighter the flying fortress was shot down at Captain Spisarevsky's feat. You're a historian, Minister of War, I'll tell you, not with the Meserschmitt, his Meserschmitt the previous day has been damaged. You don't know, and I don't know if you've been amazed, if you've been wrong or if you just didn't know. [[Replications from OP.]] And Captain Spisarevski has taken down the fortress with Divloatin, also obtained free of charge. [[Replying from the O.P.: "Search! "]] Not to mention after World War II how I do not specify by whom, there is no time for this, Bulgaria has become the first military force in the Balkans. [[Replications from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u80	Please don't shout! Mr. Shopov, focus on asking the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u81	My question is: during this term of office of the National Assembly has Bulgaria received during this government I ask you, when you are a military minister, free military assistance in monetary terms or free of charge material equipment and equipment for the Bulgarian Army and in what size? And if there is such help, in what form, what is it and who is it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u82	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u83	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Shopov, I do not wish to enter into a historic debate about what we received after the Liberation and whether we paid for it or not because we paid for it. And what we have received from our other allies before World War II is a limited amount of aircraft captured by foreign countries. Everything else we pay for. And in terms of World War I, Bulgaria draws loans from foreign banks against which, including, it bets on Minnie Pernik to buy the weapons. We didn't get anything for free. After 1944, there's no free lunch either. We have paid everything according to the prices at the time in SIV, which were for the rest of us. Of course, there were forms of training and so on that were, so to speak, gratis. But specifically to your question. For the government's mandate, with effect from 4 May 2017 until the end of 2019, with grants granted, defence products and related services were delivered by the US Government at a total value of 87 million. $237,000. $534. These are different types of defence products, material equipment that the Bulgarian Army has received: specialized car equipment and spare parts for it.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. As I've already said, paratrooper property, engineering devices and accessories, GPS accessories and so on, I can list them to you for a long time. In addition we have received: specialized boats with auxiliary equipment and spare parts worth 1 million. 227,000. $ 308, additional equipment for language labs, that is to say for language study courses. These are expenses, that is, we have received it as a production and no one can tell you exactly how much it costs. The Ministry of Defence has also received targeted funding under the International Programme for Language Education and Training in Foreign Schools, with a total of 174 servicemen trained for the period 2017 - 2019 by the end of 2019. During this period there was also free training of Bulgarian specialists in Bulgaria from mobile teams of the Pentagon, as a result they have increased their qualification of 97 other people. There are smaller other funds that we have received from other allies, the last example was 14,500 pounds from the British Embassy for training also people at the Naval School. This is quite briefly the information you ask me about. I repeat, 87 million in those two and a half years, that's right, right, grants. So we got the money for free. Granted! The word "freedom" means a gift.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u84	You'll sort it out later, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u85	If you interpret the word "freedom" in any other way...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u86	You'll figure it out later. Thanks for the answer. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Shopov. Don't shout, "Search." You just have to give the time to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u87	That's how I get my darkest expectations that it's really nothing. You're making me laugh. You're making me laugh. That's what economists and financiers will laugh about, right, with wooden iron, free credit. Credit grant free! Even if some amounts were received, they are pathetic money compared to everything that happened to the Bulgarian army in the last 30 years, considering the cutting of thousands of tanks, of aircraft, of the armed, of Bulgarian missiles, against the backdrop of the fact that the United States uses four US bases free of charge in Bulgaria, their bases because 2015 and 2016. Since you became Minister of War, you seem to have forgotten your intentions, even forgot that there are four foreign American bases. In one of your comments you said: "There are no such bases. " It is clear and it is not a coincidence for me that I made this analogy with the past in the Third Bulgarian State, in the different periods that at the moment the Bulgarian army is left as a force that has clearly gendarmerie functions and nothing more without the necessary armaments. Bulgaria is not given what is due to it for its contribution, which it has in common defence or NATO, as you like to call it, and obviously you, as Minister of Defence, are doing nothing because other countries are doing it to receive the necessary grant, free equipment, as is done with other armies around the world, as we all know, with the army of Israel. There are continuous reports about how the United States provides free arms and equipment to nearby and distant countries, which may have a much less geostrategic significance than Bulgaria. And instead of Bulgaria getting something for free, we pay crazy money. The best example is with airplanes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u88	Get your head in the game. [[Noise and lines from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u89	The billions that are given for airplanes on a drawing and that will come at best if they come in five years.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u90	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. [[Noise and lines from OP.]] Please don't shout from the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u91	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Shopov, honourable colleagues! You tried to make me laugh, Mr. Shopov. The term is an award-winning loan, that is, money that you don't pay back. That's the term. I don't know if it's a wooden iron in your head. It could be cotton, I don't know. In 2008 the United States invested up to that government's period of 26 million. U.S. dollar. In just two and a half years, it's 87 million, and you're telling me it's not enough. You can also give me examples of the Ivory Coast, of course, of Côte d'Ivoire and somewhere else, right? Except there are no such examples. Do not give examples of Israel. It just doesn't make sense. Give an example of something else. You're from five parliaments, as you said. In which parliament did you, as a MP and your party's group, insist on increasing the cost of defence? There were at least two governments in which you supported the majority. He had the gold finger and so on. When did you insist on defense spending? I didn't hear. Now you're telling me: "They don't give us anything, but we cut up. " - The fact that not five, but more parliament politicians have had the stupidity to cut and destroy, it has no connection with someone giving us something free and a gift. There's no connection. Because our cutting is our fault. The Poles didn't cut. Not just the Poles and Romanians and Hungarians and Slovaks and so on. To your question, how much have we received in these two and a half years, I answer you: the amount is only on the part of the United States - 87 million. $237,000. dollars, plus language courses, labs and training in their schools. From this point of view, I think there's no room for speculation. You insulted the Bulgarian Army by saying that it almost performed some gendarmerie functions. There's no such thing. The Bulgarian army, although you are in five parliaments, has not once defended it, has experienced a difficult period of unreasonable politicians who have cut off its personnel and budget. This is not our fault, neither the Americans nor the Russians nor the Chinese. Our heads, politically, are responsible for this and those who did it. Those who convinced the public that when we enter NATO, someone will protect us and in Europe someone will feed us.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u92	Guide to completion, Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The policy of the current government and the Ministry of Defence is: modernization of the army; three years in a row increase in wages by 10%, something that has never happened; repair and repair and modernization of existing equipment; construction and improvement of social and domestic conditions for the work and life of the servicemen. I think it was done a little bit. You can ask one of the servicemen themselves. Everything else is an empty political rhetoric, dear Mr. Shopov. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u94	Thank you for participating in the parliamentary control, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. We are moving on to questions to the Deputy Minister for Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs Mrs. Ekaterina Zaharieva. A question from MP Smilyana Niva about our readiness to meet a possible refugee wave. Here you are, Mrs. Niva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u95	Dear Madam Deputy Prime Minister, please answer the following questions. In the event of a possible direction of the refugee wave towards Bulgaria, are we ready to accept and accommodate the thousands of refugees? What is the capacity of registration centres in the country? What are the current data on the refugees in our country at the moment and do we have enough funds to cover the accommodation costs?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u96	Thank you, dear Mrs. Niva. You have the floor to answer, Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u97	Mr. Vice-President, Mrs. Niva, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Before I answer the questions specifically, I will also give you the specific data. I would like to assure you that the entire government in the face of the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and personally Prime Minister Borisov are making extraordinary efforts in international terms not to go there. There is no reason why there is no increased pressure at our border at the moment either with Turkey or with Greece. We are in active dialogue with the Member States, Turkey, Greece. In constant operational contact are the colleagues who are present at the border with their colleagues. You know that even years ago, such a working level was built very quickly, so that all these efforts at the moment are really not yet, and I hope there will not be such an increase in pressure. You know that there was an extraordinary Council of the Interior Ministers and of the Foreign Ministers ours was in Zagreb on March 6th last Friday, which in a declaration from all countries expressed readiness if necessary, if necessary, full solidarity with Bulgaria, Greece and Cyprus. If necessary to give additional support to Bulgaria and Cyprus, but to Bulgaria, as I say, there is still no such wave. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has also prepared a list of possible necessary equipment, for which, if necessary, we should request support. And at the moment there are employees of the Frontex. Also on 21 March 2019 the Prime Minister has established a National Operational Headquarters, whose chairman is the Interior Minister. It shall monitor and coordinate the actions of the competent authorities. Our efforts are aimed at preventing such a wave and continuing the Agreement, which has been between the European Union and Turkey since 2016, March, which, in relation to Bulgaria, works, although with regard to Greece, according to data from Greek colleagues, is not respected. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that if someone crosses the Bulgarian border illegally or who is not subject to protection under the Convention on Refugees, they must return to the countries of origin. I'll give you the data now. You know that the Agency for Refugees has four units in Sofia, in the town of Harmanli, in the village of Pastrogor, Svilengrad municipality, and in the village of Banya, Nova Zagora municipality. The total accommodation capacity is 5160 beds. Currently, all centers are of open type, but there is a technical opportunity, if necessary, for the Centre in the village of Pustrogor, as well as one of the buildings in Harmanli, to transform into ones of closed type. As of 6 March 2020, 377 third-country nationals were accommodated in international protection proceedings, i.e. by granting refugee status. From Syria are the most about 200 of these citizens are from Syria. The security of reception and accommodation activities is ensured with the state budget at the moment, as there is really no particular situation, these funds are provided. I will conclude, the efforts we are making are also to prevent a common solidarity European approach, but, of course, on a bilateral diplomatic path as well.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u98	Thank you, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Here's a line for you, Ms. Niva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u99	Thank you for your answer, Mrs. Zaharieva. We all hope that we are not facing such a question, but my question was: in the event of a possible refugee crisis, is the state able to resolve the issue and have concrete measures been taken in the Crisis Headquarters to find a solution?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u100	Thank you, Ms. Niva. Would you like the word for the doppelganger? Here you go, Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u101	Literally in the first hours when it was announced that Turkey would no longer hinder the refugees located on its territory, the Ministry of Interior with the Operational Headquarters immediately directed and strengthened the presence of the Bulgarian border, so the measures were taken immediately. This operational headquarters with all state institutions was also created for a reason. Power institutions as a matter of fact: the Ministry of Interior, the Bulgarian Army, the Ministry of Defence, the DANS, the DAR services, so our goal is to prevent such a situation. I told you, our centers are empty de facto right now. They're 377, if I'm not mistaken, by memory. For years there have been citizens of other countries who are in a refugee status procedure, so we are ready.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, for your response, respectively, and for participating in today's parliamentary control. We move on to questions to the Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev. We are now entering into a special procedure - one answer to two questions. First, I will give the floor to the National Representative Vesela Lecheva to ask a question about the determination of the minimum amounts of the annual funds for physical activity, physical education, sport and sports-touristic activity of children and students in institutions in the system of pre-school and school education and in higher schools. You have the floor, Mrs. Lecheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question is related to the functioning of Decree No 129, which regulates the minimum differentiated amounts of funds that are defined as sport for each child in kindergarten, a student from the educational system and students from higher education institutions plus students. This decree has been operational for 19 years. For those 19 years, it was only updated once during the mandate of the so-called Triple Coalition in 2005 and the funds were doubled. For ten years of the management of the GERB government and the management under your authority of your ministry, this decree continues to function within a range which, I would say, is too insufficient and gives rise to a deficit of the main objectives that this decree sets itself, namely: the creation of better conditions for sport of each child, the optimization of the training work of children and students in the educational and educational system, for better sport and competition activities, or ultimately for better motivation for sport among the young generation and adolescents. My questions to you are: what is your vision, what is your specific opinion on the effectiveness of this decree? Are you going to make an adjustment to it? Do you intend to convert it to an effective degree in terms of small educational institutions, because it functions in one way to schools that have 100 students, to schools that have 1,000 students, and I would say in the same way that it could be good and effective for higher education institutions where there are 10,000 or more students? What is your vision of the specific decree, especially that it was imported and exists as a member and in the new Law on Sports which you have proposed and which we approved as MPs?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u104	Thank you, dear Mrs. Lecheva. Now I give the floor to the National Representative Teodora Halacheva to ask a question about sports funds for children in kindergartens, students and students provided by the state. Here you are, Mrs. Halacheva. TEODORA HALATCHEVA (BSP for Bulgaria): Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! According to World Health Organisation studies, 6% of Europeans over 15 are overweight. The highest levels of obesity are, unfortunately, in Bulgaria, Malta and Greece. According to 2018 surveys of the same organization, Bulgarian young people are ranked fifth according to this indicator - 224 thousand children between 5 and 18 years of age are overweight in Bulgaria. Most young people will not overcome this problem, and every fourth of five overweight will have a problem as an adult. At last parliamentary control, on 6 March 2020, your colleague Mr. Ananiev announced frightening numbers, Mr. Minister. In the implementation of the sub-section "Health care and service" of the National Strategy for the Child 2008 - 2018, which for more than ten years implement the governments of Mr. Borisov, you will allow me to quote the shorthand: "2788 sports events have been conducted according to factor "physical activity" and 1706 tourist marches; 52 projects have been carried out for 1810 children with disabilities." This was taken for ten years for over a million children in Bulgaria. At the same time, Decree No 129 of the Council of Ministers since 2000, which gives 2 BGN. of a child from kindergarten and 3 leva. to a student and a sports student. That is why my question to you is: what exactly as activity or material collateral do you think can be covered by the sum of two and three levs per child, student and student? Do you think this is enough for the development of children's sport and for dealing with the problem I have mentioned? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u105	Thank you, dear Mrs. Halacheva. You have the answer, Mr. Kralev, and the duration is 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u106	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Lecheva, Mrs. Halacheva, Order of the Council of Ministers No 129 on the determination of minimum differentiated amounts of money for physical education and sport, which are provided by the state budget and the budgets of municipalities, was adopted on 11 July 2000 on the basis of art. 57 of the already repealed Law on Physical Education and Sports, and its latest update has been since 2006. The decree defines the order of application by the educational institutions, which are submitted to the respective funding institutions. The Ministry of Youth and Sports, the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Defence and others. The resources for physical activity, physical education, sport and sports-touristic activity of children and students in institutions in the system of pre-school and school education and in higher schools are planned in the central budget and are approved by senior managers of budgets by municipalities with a decree of the Council of Ministers based on the amount of approved projects of the educational institutions. In view of the adoption of a new Law on Physical Education and Sport in force from 18 January 2019 and on the basis of art. 132, para. 1 of which the Ministry of Youth and Sport prepared a new draft decree. In the project proposed in inter-agency coordination in June 2019, the Ministry of Youth and Sport proposed an increase of the funds by 1 BGN respectively. for a child in kindergarten and with 2 leva. for students in schools, students, regular form of training and students. Thus the funds for children in kindergartens become 3 leva. of a child, for students, students and students 5 BGN To a person. In the course of the interagency procedure for the coordination of the draft drawn up in accordance with art. Art. 32, Art. 34 of the Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers and of its administration in the Ministry of Youth and Sports have received an unapproved financial justification from the Ministry of Finance, arguing that the set new minimum differentiated amounts exceed the envisaged funds in the central budget for 2019 and the procedure has been suspended. The Ministry of Youth and Sports prepared a new Draft Decree in which the minimum differentiated amounts of money for physical activity, physical education, sport and sports-touristic activity are the same as the latest update of the Decree of the Council of Ministers No 129. The Public Discussion of the Project ended on 18 February 2020. At the same time, the Ministry of Youth and Sports proposed to the Ministry of Finance the funds in the central budget for physical activity, physical education, sport and sport activities of children and students in institutions in the system of pre-school and school education and in higher schools to be increased under the budget for 2020 and the updated budget forecast 2021. In the event of the provision of the funds requested in the central budget, the Ministry of Youth and Sport will take action to introduce a draft decree to increase the minimum differentiated amounts of money. of a child, and 5 leva. to a student, student and student. Finally, I would like to point out that the funds granted under PMS No 129, or which would be granted under the new decree of the Council of Ministers, are for additional funding for the promotion and guarantee of sports activities to children and young people, in kindergartens, schools and higher education institutions. They are an addition to the funds provided by the budget to provide training programmes in physical education and sport under the Law on school and pre-school education. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u107	Thank you, dear Minister. Would you like the word for a line, Mrs. Lecheva? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u108	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! From what I have heard, I do see good will in terms of the update of Decree 129 by the Minister, but obviously there is no understanding either from the Prime Minister or from the Minister of Finance in terms of nearly 3 million. lv. Three million levs should be enough for the update of this decree with the specific figures that you said a child for sport and 5 leva. for a student, student and student. I am surprised by the lack of understanding, because the ease with which sports infrastructure funds are being allocated, and I would say, in serious terms, only last month the government, in the face of the Prime Minister, has eased 37 million. lv. to improve sports infrastructure, and only for one municipality. I dare say that the way the country is going in this extremely important area of the country to spend so little money on sports for children and adolescents is extremely wrong because tomorrow we will have a very good sports infrastructure, but there is no one to sport at these stadiums and sports facilities. Most importantly, Mr. Minister, I am sure that you also know that the policy regarding building sports habits in children, especially when they are covered in the educational system, is most effective. It is true that it is necessary to invest money in sports infrastructure, but there must be a balance in this policy. We can't just say 6% of the money we discussed when we accepted the budget that only the modest 6% go for mass sports or sports among the students. Yeah, there's probably money going through the Ministry of Education and Science, but there goes both for art and culture and music and so on. However, sport is a different possible tool, and so far no more effective means have been found in terms of both the incidence of children, in terms of, I would say, and the aggression that exists among children and students. So he has shown, according to specialists and experts, its effectiveness, and I would say that the important, serious balance should be found here when money is spent on sports infrastructure and sports among children. I am very sorry that you have not found an understanding among the Council of Ministers and the Prime Minister for these modest 3 million, which the update of this decree needs.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u109	Thank you, dear Mrs. Lecheva. Would you like the word for a line, Mrs. Halacheva? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u110	Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly, honourable Mr. Chairman! According to official data of the National Statistical Institute for students who attend the Bulgarian schools for the academic year 2018/2019, from the state budget, according to my accounts, 2 million should have been allocated. 319 thousand. lv. The amount we consider to be extremely insufficient for the development of school sport in the country. That is why I welcome your intention to increase the amount of sport in schools. I consider it extremely inadequate and ineffective at school with 1,000 students to be granted 3,000. lv. Annually. With these amounts, directors usually purchase goods, teams for their teams or ensure participation in a school championship, if any. The administration of these amounts rather creates a problem and aggravates the school administration, and despite the funding being granted, we are still at the forefront of negative trends, which 19 years after the adoption of the Decree, I think speaks of two things: the funds allocated are extremely insufficient and that the measures are ineffective and unsustainable. That is why I think that we should remember the high sports achievements of Bulgarians such as Nikola Stanchev, Petko Sirakov and remind ourselves that they have left the school championships. Not to belittle the subject, on the contrary, to support school sport, so, again, I welcome your intention to increase the amount. I hope it comes true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u111	Thank you, dear Mrs. Halacheva. Would you like a douche? Here you are, Mr. Minister, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u112	Dear Mrs. Lecheva, Dear Mrs. Halacheva, as I pointed out in my reply, the means of physical activity, physical education, sport and sports-touristic activities of children and students in institutions in the system of preschool and school education are only for additional funding of sports activities. They are not all the funds the state budget grants to secure the classes of physical education and sport. I would just like to remind you that last week the Council of Ministers granted 25 million funds. lv. for building gyms in schools. This is the beginning of a program that has not been made in Bulgaria in tens of years. At the beginning of my second term as Minister of Youth and Sports, I publicly stated that every Bulgarian child has the right to equal conditions for sport. This is the basis of building a healthy nation. My position has always been in this direction to rebuild the pyramid in which the Bulgarian sport is built. Without taking care of the children, we can't expect any serious success. In this regard, I would like to assure you that we will continue to insist that PMS No 129 funds be increased for next year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u113	Thank you, dear Minister. The issue announced in the program by the National Representative Dora Yankova regarding opportunities for financing of a sports hall in the yard of the secondary school................................. in the village of Chepintsi, Rudozem municipality is postponed. We are moving on to a question of the National Representative Irena Anastasova on a competition for Director of National Sports School.. General Vladimir Stoychev. [[The National Representative Dora Yankova enters the Chamber.]] I announced that it was postponed, but after Mrs. Anastasova's question, I will give Mrs. Yankova the opportunity to ask her question and she has managed to return to the National Assembly building. Here you are, Mrs. Anastasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u114	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! My question to you, Mr. Minister, is related to the competition held for Director of the National Sports School in Sofia. The contest was held by a committee appointed by your order, I hope, because, strangely enough, I find no trace of it on the official website of the Ministry. As a result, Mr. Boris Borisov was appointed to the post. From the signals of colleagues from the school who, I understand, have addressed other institutions, I understand that in a few months as principal of the school Mr. Borisov demonstrated quite unprofessional behavior and took even more unprofessional measures in the management of the institution. Leaded by the understanding that it is about the first sports school in Sofia, a school with an undisputed authority, which since 1987 is always among the country's leading results in sports and general education, and knowing well the work of its former directors, being the very long-standing school director in the region of Mladost, I believe that the commission appointed by you should take maximum responsibility according to the law. I met the documents of all participants in the competition and I believe that with the choice of Mr. Borisov the requirements of art. 213, para. 3 of the Law on pre-school and school education, as well as the provisions of art. 33, para. 2 and para. 3 of Decree No 15 of the Ministry of Education and Science on the status and professional development of pedagogical specialists. Therefore, I ask you: on the basis of what documents of professional qualification and required internship have the commission appointed by you taken its decisions? And other than that, do you have any information on what other official commitments to other institutions Mr. Borisov has besides his appointments as director? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u115	Thank you, dear Mrs. Anastasova. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u116	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Anastasova, as you point out in your question, it was announced by my order and in December 2019 a competition was held for director of state sports school General Vladimir Stoychev. By Order No HR 19-756/18.10.2019 the Minister of Youth and Sports has been appointed a commission to examine the submitted documents of candidates for participation in the competition and to allow those candidates who meet the requirements to the competition. At its meeting on 22 October 2019, the Commission found that documents of three candidates had been received and the documents submitted by them were in line with the requirements set out in the advert. The Commission allows for participation in a competition for the position of the Director-General of the State Sports School of General Vladimir Stoychev and the city of Sofia, all candidates who submitted documents. Two of the candidates took part in the subsequent test and interview. The final result of the test and the interview is 59 points for Boris Borisov and 35 points for Plamen Gamdov, as a result of which the competition commission appoints Boris Borisov for the winning candidate. The documents submitted by Boris Borisov for participation in the competition certify the fulfilment of the minimum and specific requirements for taking up the position, according to art. 213, para. 3 of the Law on pre-school and school education, art. 33, para. 2 and para. 3 of Ordinance No 15 of 22 July 2019 on the status and professional development of teachers, directors and other pedagogical specialists and art. 19th para. 3 of the Rules for Implementation of the Law on Physical Education and Sports. The requirements for candidates in the competition documentation are as follows: to be Bulgarian citizens; to meet the requirements of art. 215, para. 1 of the Law on pre-school and school education; they should not be subject to disciplinary punishment under art. 188, p. 3 of the Labour Code and their employment relationship was not termination on grounds of art. 330, para. 2, p. 6 of the Labour Code or on the basis of art. 328, para. 1, t. 5 of the Labour Code within one year prior to the submission of the documents for the competition, unless the dismissal has been revoked as illegal in the proper order; have a completed degree of higher education; hold a degree from the higher education diploma, allowing them to perform the standard of compulsory teaching as a director; have no less than five years of teaching experience or not less than five years of professional experience in the field of physical education and sport. Having computer literacy and using a foreign language are an advantage. Boris Borisov has presented a copy of the following documents: a diploma for higher education with an educational degree "Bachelor's degree, a specialty "Sports'; a professional qualification of a judo trainer, issued by the National Sports Academy.Vasil Levski............................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Kliment Ohridski "Sofia," Department for Information and Advancement of Teachers; Workbook issued by the National Assembly, issued by the National Assembly, certified that the person is an employee of the National Assembly appointed by the employment service of the occupied posts and work experience; a copy of the professional experience of Boris Hristov Borisov, a teacher, a teacher at the School of Sports, General Vladimir Stoychev, issued by the Sports School of the National Assembly. After reviewing the documents, as I mentioned above, the committee, which allows candidates to appear in competitions, has allowed him to participate. At the Ministry of Youth and Sport Boris Borisov did not present information about other business commitments to other institutions. Boris Borisov has four years and six months internship as a sport teacher at the school of General Vladimir Stoychev, two years and one month internship as a senior expert at the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports in the National Assembly. On the basis of these data, the Commission has accepted that it has no less than five years of professional experience in the field of physical education and sport and meets the requirements of art. 213, para. 3 of the Law on pre-school and school education, which states that for the occupation of the position of................................................................................................. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u117	Thank you, dear Minister. I gave you a lot of time, but I couldn't stop you. It's a long list of documents. [[Reply from the National Representative Irena Anastasova.]] Yeah, yeah, I'll make up for you, and eventually I'll take some of Mr. Minister's backs. Here you are, Mrs. Anastasova, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, I've heard your answer. You claim that everything is lawful. Then I will ask you this: do you think that working experience as an expert in the National Assembly can be compared to professional experience in the field of sport, which the Commission has obviously done because otherwise Mr. Borisov would not have the required five years? A person with zero pedagogical internship at school with 600 students, of whom over 150 live in a dormitory without parental control, a school that works with 27 sports clubs? You can hardly imagine what that means?! I know what it means because I was 12 years director of another major school at "Mladost" and without the additional responsibilities that Mr. Borisov has coming from the specifics of sports school. In addition to the director, Mr. Borisov is a chief expert in the Committee on Youth and Sports in the National Assembly and municipal councillor in Topolovgrad, which is apparently a district of Sofia.. not that his law forbids him to reconcile these three very responsible positions, only how does he make it purely physical?! His work hours as director are announced on the cabinet door from 8.30 am to 17.00 pm, I can provide it to you and I will provide it to you. Apparently, the experts in the National Assembly have been working since 6:00 a.m. It is obvious that this working hours are not observed by Mr. Director, who are witnessed by the teachers and employees of the school. Because if it were respected, someone would have told him about the case of the undressed child in the city transport in Sofia, about which all the media were blazing that this child could not move without a chaperone when performing his duties related to the upcoming competition. That's why there's a law, and I guess there's a rule book in the school, and it can't move without a chaperone. Good for the child, of course, for his efforts and work. It would have been good if his principal had done his job and fulfilled his duties, but he seems to be very committed to many other commitments outside of school. And I've come to realize that he's staying longer at school because he's putting together a petition in his own defense. I don't understand what or who? Mr. Minister, I would like you to appoint a serious examination of the work of the Committee on the Selection of Director of Sports School and, in the meantime, to check the performance of Mr. Borisov's duties as Director of School, which is under your authority, and I leave myself the right to react adequately after seeing and evaluating the measures you will take. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u119	Thank you, Mrs. Anastasova. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u120	Dear Mrs. Anastasova, as I pointed out in my presentation, the commission, which was appointed by my order to hold the competition, has decided that Boris Borisov meets the requirements to be admitted as a candidate. I have no reason to doubt the competence of the committee. As far as your signal is concerned, we will examine the allegations carefully and appoint a committee to check the Director's activities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u121	Thank you, dear Minister. We continue with a question to Minister Krasen Kralev from the National Representative Dora Yankova regarding opportunities for financing a sports hall in the yard of the school. You have the floor to ask the question, dear Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u122	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question is about the opportunities for financing a sports hall in the yard of the school.................... the village of Chepintsi, Rudozem municipality. There must be few secondary schools in a big village. My motive for asking this question was that in my repeated visits to the village of Chepintsi, the municipality of Rudozem, the residents asked me about the need to build a gym in the school yard. The village of Chepintsi I suppose that your collaborators, by preparing the question, have informed you that this is the largest village in the municipality of Rudozem and it will be the entrance of the Rhodope region now in building the link with Greece, which is due to end this year. The school itself has an extremely high rating in our educational system, with good educational results. There are good sports clubs. There's a kindergarten in the village. The village is over 2,000 inhabitants and has a potential of about 500 people employed in separate industries. So, Minister, this is one of the living settlements, the big settlements. This opportunity to build a gym.. the desire of teachers, students, the public strongly motivates me. Moreover, my question coincided with the government's decision, which gave up opportunities to purchase a plane or a vehicle that was supposed to be for the government, and you allocated a small financial resource for this. I see you with the Prime Minister that you reach Plovdiv region and my expectations are to support symbolic, large settlements where there is a sports initiative and a sports tradition. That motivates me to ask you the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u123	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u124	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Yankova, one of the main priorities of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, as well as in the Management Program of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2017 - 2021, is financing, reconstruction, renovation and construction of new sports infrastructure. As of July 2019, these activities are carried out in accordance with Ordinance No 4 of 8 July 2019 on financial support for the construction and renewal of sporting sites of state and municipal property, and previously under Decree No 2 of 8 May 2014. Ordinance No 4 sets out the activities which are subject to financial support from the Minister for Youth and Sports, as well as the entities entitled to apply for it. Projects under the Ordinance may submit sports federations and sports clubs, municipalities or offices, state sports schools. The regulation funds the construction and renovation of sports sites, the maintenance and development of sports and material and technical facilities of public sports schools. Candidates need to present in the register of the Ministry of Youth and Sports Project by template, accompanied by documentation, according to the type of activities applied for. At present, the Ministry of Youth and Sports has not received a project to build a sports hall in the village of Chepintsi. The examination of the projects submitted to the Ministry of Youth and Sport under Regulation No 4 shall be carried out by an expert commission appointed by order of the Minister of Youth and Sport, which shall assess the compliance of each project with the statutory requirements. On the basis of the Commission's opinion, the Minister of Youth and Sport shall issue a separate order for each of the projects allowing the project to be supported and, in the event of budgetary assurance, shall determine how such support is to be supported. In this sense, I cannot engage in funding opportunities for a sports hall in the village of Chepintsi before a detailed project is submitted to the Ministry and is assessed for compliance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u125	Thank you, dear Minister. The line, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u126	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister Kralev! I suppose that when you are having conversations with the Minister of Education, you come to this conclusion that there is still a need for sports halls, sports halls for the Bulgarian schools to be built, upgraded and renovated where necessary, because in the end the contemporary child is studying and needs to exercise. The administrative procedure I know, but I wish you would be a minister with more heart and more commitment to the sport, which in certain cases you clearly show it as a Bulgarian politician. In this case, I've drawn your attention to the Chepintsi. In talks with the mayor, I know that he is currently preparing the field and the question is putting it this way. The mayor says: If I am supported by the project, I will finance it to be designed......................................................................... My request is that you take a look at the very construction of a hall in Chepintsi well-intentionedly. I will motivate the discussion at the Municipal Council and with the mayor of the municipality to be so active to comply with this administrative procedure. But in small municipalities, every lev is important. Even a design of a project, a complete performance as you want it, costs expensive if you have not previously made these calls. Here you may also need to see this as a policy that you are realizing. But I will not stop insisting, I will inform the local authorities to be active, and I am addressing you to look at Rhodope schools of support in the settlements as well. Yes, a lot has been done, but ultimately more and more is needed.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u127	Thank you. A hole? We continue with the next question by the MPs Ivan Chenchev, Georgi Gokov and Alexander Paunov on the State Sports Totalizer. Mr. Pawnov, you have the floor to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u128	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Prime Minister, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria declares that the State Sports Totalizer will finance the private football club with state funds, which is a violation of the law. Boyko Borissov has decided to help Levski in a year or six months, but not with personal funds, but with state funds, probably because he is sick Levski. Why didn't you help the "Locomotive" Sofia, the "September" Sofia and other football clubs that are in serious financial condition? And in this regard, my question is why was the Management Board of the State Sports Totalizer replaced, do the newly appointed members have a required cent and why the State Sports Totalizer should sponsor the private football club? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u129	Thank you, dear Mr. Pawnov. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u130	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Pawnov, Mr. Gokov, Mr. Chenchev! After the recently adopted changes in the Gambling Act, the state enterprise "Bulgarian Sports Totalizer" is in a new market situation and there are new challenges and tasks before it. Currently there is a market for instant lottery games of about 500 million leva, which needs to be served. So far, this has happened in 14,000 sales points. The Bulgarian Sports Totalizer has 840 own points and 963 external points, which can work until August 20th. In view of the new restrictions imposed by the changes to the Gambling Act, the construction of such a network is extremely difficult. After all, the task is for the totalizer to reach 3,000 points for sale in the first six months and up to one year for 7,000. You have to constantly create new interesting games with modern content. The Bulgarian Sports Totalizer should also enter the sports betting market. Modern online platforms must be created. Only then can we be sure that this market will be quality serviced and the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer will realize the set goals, which are a minimum double increase in the funds charged for sport. To this end, it is necessary to introduce a new management power into the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer. It is necessary to build a young expert, highly motivated team to lead the totalizer while ensuring continuity with the old leadership that has priceless experience. This is the main reason for the change of the Board of the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer. It was done by my order, agreed with the Minister of Finance. According to the Rules of Procedure of the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer, a member of the Management Board may be a person who is a Bulgarian citizen, has a higher education, is not convicted of a deliberate crime of the general nature of imprisonment, unless rehabilitated, meets the requirements of the Gambling Act, is not a spouse or relative to the third degree, including by rights or by the legal line of another member of the Management Board. The appointed members of the Board of the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer meet the requirements. In a few words, I will present each and every one of them again. The new executive director of the state enterprise "Bulgarian Sports Totalizer" "Lyubomir Petrov" has acquired Bachelor's and Master's degree in computer systems and technologies at the Technical University of Sofia and rich professional experience in the field of technology, business development, sales processes in "Telelink Bulgaria." Ludmila Petkova has a master's degree in economics, management of trade by the University of National and World Economy. Since 2014 Petkova has been the Director of the Financial Policy Directorate at the Ministry of Finance. From 2013 until 2014 she was Deputy Minister of Finance. He has professional experience as Head of Department and Deputy Director of Directorate at the National Revenue Agency. Valentin Tochev has a Master's degree in Economics, Labour Organization from the University of National and World Economy. Since 2015, Tochev is head of the Department of Tax Policy Analysis. His professional experience in the Ministry of Finance began in 2000, when Tochev became a chief expert in the Department of Tax Policy Analysis. Gosho Ginchev has a Master's degree in Management from the University of Veliko Tarnovo. St. Cyril and Methodius. I'm not gonna dwell on his career as a football player who's known to everyone. From 2004 to 2007 he was the sports and technical director of PFC. From 2015 until 2017 he was a member of the Board of Directors of PFC. He is currently Chairman of the Sports and Technical Commission of the Bulgarian Football Union and member of the Board of the Board of the Board of the Bulgarian Sports and Technical Commission of 2014. Hristo Yolov has a Bachelor's degree in Business Management from the Higher School of Security and Economy. After completing his professional career as a soccer player he is a sports and technical director of the PFC from 2013 to 2014. From 2015 to 2016 he is a deputy mayor in Svoge Municipality, Head of Education, Culture and Sports. He's a city councilman in Svoge right now. As reported, in order to ensure the continuity of the two teams and because of the huge experience he has, the current executive director of the state enterprise "Bulgarian Sports Analyst" Damian Damyanov has been appointed as a consultant of the new Board of Directors of the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer. Regarding the last question, the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer is a state enterprise, but has operational autonomy. The conclusion of contracts is solely the competence of the Board of Governors of the Totalizer. The Ministry of Youth and Sports has no information about a contract between the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer and PFC Levski or a specific offer for one to comment on at the moment. Purely theoretically in its maintenance budget, the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer can include funds for advertising through sports competitions or sports clubs, and the decisions for this are entirely of the competence of the Management Board and the Executive Director of the company. These funds cannot in any way be part of the funds allocated to sport by the Ministry of Youth and Sports, as they have a fixed percentage of the proceeds in the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u131	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The line is Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u132	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, Dear Ministers, Minister Kralev! Here are some questions. We, in a very short form, tried to present them. Of course, it is within the competence of the Governing Council to decide, for example, where it will advertise. The question is why does it decide to advertise in a private company of this nature in the situation created in this football club? By the way, by the same logic as the prime minister said that we had a large fan table available, you know that he gave such an interview, even promised other goodies, so to say, about the football club "Levski", then why to the other sports grand of Bulgaria and the achievements of the biggest team in Bulgaria "CSKA" was not approached in this way in terms of bankruptcy when it was, why was it not considered by the Board of Toto for the same reciprocal measures then? There is another issue that has arisen. This replacement management Board of Tototo managed in unprecedented conditions and in the presence of another competing company, you know, the National Lottery. I have asked the Ministry for a written answer as to what the budget is, what Lotto's financial statement is, was for 2016 and then the data was alarming. How the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer now, in the context of having a major reorganization ahead of him, listening carefully to your words, will provide what was requested in advance by 1 million. $100,000. BGN, notice, a monthly private football club, provided he has so much reorganization to do? Plus, Mr. Minister, we're talking about archin, but this archin is now state-owned. [[the President signals that time has run out]] And how do you measure up to a private company? I can list you clubs with a large fan mass throughout the country and just should have the state look equal. It just doesn't work that way, according to the Prime Minister-Sun's sole decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u133	Thank you, dear Mr. Chenchev. Hole, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u134	Dear Mr. Chenchev! As I had the opportunity before you just now in my exhibition to present the biographies of the new members of the Board of Directors, you see that they are absolutely prepared people, highly educated specialists with proven experience. And I believe that precisely such a team in the conditions of a new challenge to the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer will be suitable for its management. Regarding the second part of your question, I will again allow myself to repeat that I cannot comment at the moment on decisions that are only the priorities of the Governing Council and have not yet been taken. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u135	Thank you. The next question is from the National Representative Ivan Chenchev on medical provision at all levels and forms of Bulgarian football meetings. You have the floor, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u136	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I apologize for the overdue time just now. Dear Ministers, Mr. Minister Kralev, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! We recorded disturbing events during football control, notice, between "Danube" and "Botev," played on 5 February 2020. This thing again provokes a proposal for a change in the rules for medical provision at all levels and in all forms of football meetings that take place in Bulgaria. During the match in Muglige, where this match is played, a player swallows his tongue on the field and is saved from suffocation by the coach. There's no ambulance or medical officer on the field. According to the current regulations on football championships and tournaments in the system of BFS, judges are obliged not to start a football meeting when no doctor, ambulance, stretcher are provided, necessary for each team a pre-competitive medical examination and a regular football passport. However, this is nowhere described as valid for control matches. According to the Ordinance only for the meetings of the First, Second and Third League, the tournament for the Cup of Bulgaria, U-17 and U-19 should be provided with a sanitary ambulance. For the other groups, the use of a specially adapted car is permitted, which must be clearly marked by the sign of the Red Cross. There is also a stretcher, and two nurses with a clearly identifiable sign of the Red Cross, but only for the meetings in the First, Second and Third League and those of the final stage of the Cup of Bulgaria. In my opinion, there is no difference neither temporally nor assessing the health risks of players between a match of the elite and a control meeting. In the event of the need to transport an injured footballer to a medical establishment on the field, at least nurses who are trained to respond adequately in order to protect the player's life and health must be present. Dear Minister, I ask for your answer to the question: when will the rules for medical insurance under the Ordinance on Football Championships and Tournaments in the system of BFS apply also to control football meetings? I wish here, Mr. Minister, that I would give it to you and as a signal just to be very kind, to think about it. Of course, I'm sure in your answer you'll also give me an opinion of the Football Union. But if we have to think about it, because, you know, control meetings are an integral part of the sports calendar. Thank you and excuse me.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u137	Thank you, dear Mr. Chenchev. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u138	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chenchev, the case quoted by you of the lack of a medical professional at the control meeting of the The Ministry of Youth and Sports turned to the licensed sports federation "Bulgarian Football Union" for supplementary information on the case. According to the information we received from BFS, the organization and holding of football meetings from the championships and tournaments included in the sports calendar of BFS for the season 2019 " 2020" is regulated in the Ordinance on Championships and Football Tournaments in the system of BFS, adopted by the Executive Committee of the Federation by decision of 14 May 2019. Although the control meeting is not part of the sports calendar of BFS, by virtue of art. 21, para. 1 of the Ordinance on all football championships and tournaments and official control meetings during the 2019 Sports and Racing 2020 contest shall be organised and held in accordance with this Regulation, the Annexes and related instructions. Among the other requirements for a football meeting is also the provision of art. 26, para. 7, which categorically instructs football judges not to start the football meeting when no doctor, ambulance, stretcher and the regular passport required for each team. It is clear from the comparison of the two provisions that the requirements for medical provision of a football meeting are equally mandatory for meetings from the sports calendar and for control and friendly meetings. Here I would like to add that in art. 9 of the Law on the Protection of Public Order in the conduct of sporting events is clearly regulated that it is the responsibility of the responsible for the security of the sporting establishment in the event of sporting events to ensure the security and safety of the sporting event, to ensure fire safety and emergency safety and medical care, including in the event of crises. Article 10 of the same law imposes on the organizers of sporting events the obligation to use legal persons to provide medical care, fire safety and security. The Law on the Protection of the Public Order of Sports Events provides for administrative criminal provisions, and the acts establishing administrative infringements are drawn up by the police authorities. The Bulgarian Football Union informed us that it had prepared an indicative letter to all clubs about their obligation to have medical teams present during football meetings, including control meetings. An instruction was sent to the Judicial Commission to instruct all football judges who received an appointment for a football meeting on the calendar or friendly, to strictly comply with the requirements of art. 26, para. 7 of the Ordinance on Championships and Football Tournaments in the system of BFS and do not start a football meeting from the calendar or friendly if medical care is not provided. Regarding your proposal, the Ministry of Youth and Sports is not the competent authority that can rule on it. According to the data we have, providing a reanimobile is harder than hiring an ambulance. In a number of smaller populated municipalities there is no reanimobile, and the number of ambulances is limited to one or two. This does not allow them to be hired due to the need for them to be available to the emergency centres concerned. Therefore, in its rules BFS allows for the hire of an adapted light or light-duty vehicle for emergency transport. To conclude, I would like to point out that my personal opinion on the problem you have raised completely coincides with yours. I believe that the health of athletes and spectators of sporting events is a priority and I appeal to all sports federations and organizers of such events to address appropriate attention to the provision of medical care. According to BFS, there were two paramedics at the game, but they don't fall under their definition of medical personnel. Most likely the trainer you spoke of at your exhibition was closest. There were no medical personnel, because the two teams didn't agree on who to provide them. The Law on Physical Education and Sport also contains a text on compulsory medical insurance. According to the way it is pawned, however, we interpret it as referring only to official competitions from the sports calendar. In this sense, the Inspectorate or the Ministry as a whole can only address the licensed sports federation when it receives information that there was no such person of the sport event, which, according to our law, falls into the training activity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u139	Thank you, dear Minister. The line is Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u140	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Ministers, Dear Mr. Kralev, Ladies and Gentlemen of the National Assembly! I'll be very brief. Mr. Minister, thank you, because, first of all, we agree. Second of all, we've sharpened our attention. We also sharpened the attention of the Football Union, sharpened the attention of officials and clubs, of course. Asking this question, I am extremely aware of the fact that for the normal holding of football matches in Bulgaria in just one week, say, there are 724 doctors who need to be provided for these football meetings, and this is really very laborious. But it actually shows how many such events are weekly in the country and what is the degree of importance that we have just talked to you about. Thank you for your opinion and for your position. We've sharpened our attention and, of course, we'll follow up on what measures are being taken. If necessary, we are available to participate in any initiatives that can guarantee life and health in the case of football players. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u141	This was the last question for Minister Kralev. Thank you, dear Minister, for participating in parliamentary control today.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u142	And thank you for the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u143	We continue with questions to the Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov, who will answer a question from the National Representative Smilyana Niva about the security of our border in the possible transfer of refugees from Adrianople to Bulgaria. You have the floor, Ms. Niva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u144	Dear Minister, the refugee crisis at the Turkish-Greek border continues. According to official data from Greece, 1,500 attempts to cross the border were recorded within 24 hours, which were prevented by security. 302 people were arrested, most of whom are from Afghanistan and Pakistan. Since 29 February 4 March 2020, there have been more than 26 thousand. the attempt to enter Greek territory and 218 persons have been arrested. My question is: how many attempts have been registered for the illegal crossing of our border in recent months and is our security reliable for the possible transfer of refugees from Adrianople to Bulgaria, as well as from the Greek-Bulgarian border?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u145	Thank you, Ms. Niva. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u146	Mr. President of the National Assembly, Mrs. Nieva, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Despite the escalation of tensions resulting from military actions in Syria and the alarming situation to the southern borders of Bulgaria, the increase of migration pressure is negligible in relation to the Bulgarian borders. From 1 January to 9 March 2020, attempts have been registered by 580 third-country nationals to cross the Bulgarian-Turkish or Bulgarian-Greek border illegally. The Border Police Directorate General has detained 63 persons and the attempts of the remaining 517 individuals to infiltrate the country's territory have been prevented. In comparison, during the same period last year, the number of persons who tried to illegally enter our country across the same borders was 481. The minimal growth of migration pressure is the result of the diplomatic efforts and the active dialogue of the Bulgarian government with all our neighbours and the timely measures to guard the borders that the Ministry of Interior takes. On 2 March, Prime Minister Boyko Borisov held an urgent meeting with Turkey's President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, calling for a solution to the crisis based on understanding and good neighbourliness. As part of the delegation of the Bulgarian Prime Minister, I had the opportunity to exchange my opinion with my Turkish counterpart. "The Minister of the Interior of Turkey Sulejman Soylu, whom we keep in regular contact with. On 4 March in Brussels, I participated in an extraordinary Council meeting on Justice and Home Affairs, during which a declaration on the crisis on the Greek border was discussed. At the meeting was expressed full solidarity for the member states of the European Union, with Bulgaria, Greece, Cyprus, as well as with other member states of the European Union to be affected by the migration crisis as front-line countries. As for the measures we are taking to protect Bulgaria's borders and, respectively, the European Union, our country has stated in the event of a crisis that there is a need for aid of 130 million. EUR to meet the objectives relating to the protection of European borders. The Ministry of Interior, in particular the Directorate-General for Border Police, strengthened the monitoring of the Bulgarian-Turkish and part of the Bulgarian-Greek border, including by air. For the timely establishment of the migrant groups, the integrated surveillance system, mobile surveillance posts being broadcast is actively used in neighbouring territory. The physical control of the border is also strengthened, with additional patrols from officers of the Department of Gendarmerie. There is readiness for massive migratory pressure to include Bulgarian Army officials. In this case, however, they will not exercise their military powers, but will act as border guards. We also have active support from the European Border and Coast Guard Agency, which are included in the events on the Bulgarian-Turkish border. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u147	Thank you, dear Minister. Line up, Mrs. Niva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u148	Dear Minister, thank you for your reply. I understand that we can be calm and the Ministry of Interior has the capacity to protect our country's borders from illegal crossings through the respective fences.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u149	Thank you, Ms. Niva. We continue with the next question to Minister Marinov from the MPs Ivan Ivanov and Georgi Svilenski. It is about the re-certification of motor vehicles with car gas systems. You have the floor, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u150	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Minister, the current issue is dictated both by signals from numerous citizens affected by this problem and by media publications, of course, concerning the urgent registration of vehicles that have installed gas systems. My question is: what was the need now and so urgent to start this campaign? Is the necessary notification made to drivers and vehicle owners who have installed such gas systems and are affected by the relevant provision? We've all witnessed how it was created quite, how can I say, not a little chaos in re-entry, there were fined and tails on the counters. Moreover, this is related to the newly created COVID-19 situation, as the serious crowding of people at the DMV counters is at risk of transmission of the infection. In this regard, I ask you: what organization was created in the Ministry of Interior's units to overcome this created situation, which has led to re-registered? Is there any way to introduce any order in which to conduct this thing, order in which to call certain owners, or only this thing to happen when re-registered cars when selling, when registering new ones, and at all what measures are being taken to overcome the situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u151	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u152	Mr. President of the National Assembly, Mr. Ivanov, Mr. Svilenski, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Vehicle registration certificates in the Republic of Bulgaria shall be issued in accordance with the requirements of Directive 1999/37 of the Council of the European Union of 29 April 1999 and its subsequent amendments. The Directive lays down uniform data to be entered by Member States. The harmonisation of the form and content of the registration certificates facilitates their understanding and thus supports the free movement of vehicles registered in one Member State in the territory of the other Member States. As required by Ordinance No 1-45 of the Ministry of Interior of 2000, any change of the vehicle and owner shall be declared within the statutory period. Before changing the regulatory framework in 2014, the period for a change in registration after the installation of a gas system in the case of a vehicle allowing the engine to operate with liquefied petroleum gas or compressed natural gas was within 14 days and for any other change in vehicle data. Following an amendment to the Ordinance, a longer period of time has been granted to up to three years, which is designed to facilitate citizens, and to provide them with sufficient time to obtain the necessary documents. The Departments of Road Police at the SDVR and the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior have established an organization for continuous service to the citizens where possible and, if necessary, the employees remain after their assigned working hours. As a result of the situation, we are reorganising the process of work, and citizens who have declared the administrative service are served with priority at the expense of other activities that are not related to the administrative service of the citizens at the moment, as well as employees carrying out other specific tasks are redirected to jobs for the purpose of serving the waiting citizens. This activity involves the entire executive and management staff working on vehicle registration. You can see that the terms of the regulations are extremely long three-year-olds. Obviously, Bulgarian citizens did not think that they should do this thing within this three-year period, but in view, as you said, the situation with the spread of COVID-19, I have issued a request, it will become available to all owners of such cars by the end of May 2020, the authorities of the Ministry of Interior should not impose administrative sanctions in order that people do not pile up in queues and not create situations in which to spread the disease, so that this will be uploaded to the website of the Ministry of Interior to be seen by everyone. I hope that in this longer period they will rhythmically pass and do what they should have done many years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u153	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. A line? Mr. Svilensky, come in. We'll register without a card.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Minister, the question we have raised is clearly relevant to date. I thought the problem was solved, but, unfortunately, the answer I heard shows that the problem is still up to date. Now you say that a long enough three-year period has been given to these 800 thousand cars, as far as I have information that are on the gas, to pass through the services of the Road Police, respectively, to make adjustments to the coupons. However, Mr. Minister, you said the years when this was adopted. The regulation, then the Regulation, whether you had any period of several months and then 2014 this period was extended to three years, was given a grace period. The period was not extended, to register these cars at the DMV. During these three years, the Ministry of Interior, and the State of the Ministry and the Council of Ministers, and everyone responsible for the case, has not taken absolutely no action on an information campaign, that these cars must, by established order, pass through the relevant companies, which, according to the information we have, are only two in Bulgaria that can license the installed gas systems, however, and it comes to the moment when these three years run out and your employees by the Road Police are starting to fine drivers. In my opinion, what you said you did with an order to order the suspension of checks and the imposition of sanctions, first, we must stop it as a practice at all in the country. Because a few weeks ago, the Prime Minister or the Minister of Regional Development said they were issuing an order not to fine people who don't pay tolls until 27 March. Now you say you're ordering against the law. After all, it's a law... [[(GERB's reply:]] It's a regulation. That's right, regulation. And what you need to do is not to issue an order not to comply with the Ordinance, but to change the Ordinance and change it so that these people are as relieved as possible, those who have been assigned to them, those who have gas systems of 5, for 10 years, for 15 years, in an administrative way, without going to the Road Police. Given that the Car Administration has the data on each car that is on gas, you just need to stick your two information systems and automatically reflect every single car that has passed a technical examination and has been found to be on gas, you need to reflect it and no more of these people to bother them. They don't have to walk the counters or change the coupons. Yeah, for the new systems it's 14 days, they're coming, they're putting. This must also be the responsibility of those who place, and of the owners of such cars to accordingly be punished for failing to comply with the deadline. But for the arrangements that have been set back over the years, now to place them all in the services of the Road Police is simply unacceptable. Among other things, let this be either in the process of re-registered a car, change of ownership, change of location. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I'm done. That is to say, as much as possible to relieve citizens. What you have done is good that you will not be sanctioned. The month of May is extremely short in my opinion, since we are now March, there are two more months left. The problem of COVID-19 will not be solved probably until then, so consider changing the regulation, information campaign and for those who place Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u155	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. A hole, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u156	Mr. President of the National Assembly, Mr. Svilenski, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! As you said, the deadline is long enough for three years, and the citizen who has set himself a gas system to pass to register it. You know that gas systems are at a high risk if they are not maintained in accordance with the requirements and do not undergo a regular technical examination, which is very important. At the same time, any vehicle that has equipment, a gas system, must have a certain sticker and shall not be allowed to park in underground parking lots for security purposes. You're right, the information campaign is important, but I think that citizens should first know the laws and comply with them without any additional effort being required by any of them to make them go out to fulfill their obligations under law. However, we understand that not everyone has taken it into account, and we have taken stricter control measures, which aim once again to pay attention to them and that they understand that they must go through such registration and do so. As a matter of fact, they reacted very quickly, and this created the tails at peak moments at risk that you said we didn't comply with the law. But I think it is very important in this situation that we give citizens a slightly longer tolerance to avoid the situation of passing on the disease to CoVID-19 and that we allow once again, within a slightly longer period, they to fulfil their obligations. With regard to administrative changes. Yeah, we're gonna look at them, we're gonna think about seeing how to do that so that people get the administrative burden. But, again, gas systems are dangerous if they are not properly installed and if their technical condition is not maintained. As a matter of fact, we ordered this operation after several explosions of such gas systems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u157	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question to Minister Marinov is from the MP Pavel Shopov concerning an incident with a TV reporter on 5 March 2020. You have the floor, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u158	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! On 5 March 2020, Nikolay Karakolev.. a reporter of TV.. Alfa, in fulfillment of his duties tried to take an interview by Deputy Prime Minister Krasimir Karakachanov when he exited through the southern entrance..... the entrance, as we all know it, at the building of the National Assembly No 2. In front of a number of MPs, parliament officials and employees of the National Security Service, your subordinate with an inscription on his uniform, the Gendarmería stood up against the reporter Karakolev and blocked his way. Intrusive, purposeful, for several minutes rudely and deliberately restrained you with a body reporter from fulfilling his duties. Asked by Karakolev who he is, the employee refused to legitimize himself, as is the obligation, as we know, and this is legally formulated, defined by every uniformed officer of the Ministry of Interior in the performance of his duties and at the request of any citizen. It turned out that a uniformed officer of the Ministry of Interior undoubtedly prevented the work of a reporter in the performance of his work. [[Rabbits and calls from O.P.]] , it came to the ugly scene to strike once again in a dramatic way the freedom of speech. Mr. Chairman, order. There are some gentlemen here at the gallery who yell all the time. If anyone else did that, you'd be in the courtroom in order. [[Replications from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u159	Colleagues!?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u160	In the above situation, neither NSO employees intervened, such as there were several directly around, as well as Mr. Karakachanov's personal security detail. Apparently none of them thought the Deputy Prime Minister was in any way worried and threatened. [[Relations and calls from OP.]] Even the reporter and Mr. Karakachanov entered into a dialogue, there were questions asked, answered the style and in the way in which this becomes common, in practice. Nevertheless, the employee continued his controversial conduct. That's why I'm asking you to answer me: who ordered a uniformed police officer from the gendarmerie to attack a reporter? Is this part of the duties and job characteristics of the Bulgarian gendarmers? [[Replyings and calls from the O.R.S.]] Who is the employee and will you impose, if you have not imposed by now, punishment of the employee and what? About the weather here, gentlemen of the gallery, the chairman is in charge. [[Relations and calls from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u161	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u162	Mr. President of the National Assembly, Mr. Shopov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! I assure you that in my work as a policeman, and now as an interior minister, I have always followed and will follow the principle that both freedom of speech and the opportunity of journalists to carry out their professional duties without delay within the framework of the law. As regards the question you have raised, I can provide you with the following information. On 5 March this year, around 11.20 a.m. at the southern entrance of the National Assembly building, MPs from the Political Party VMRO have requested assistance from a senior police officer, the Zonal gendarmerie department. The same has carried out physical security at the National Assembly. The requested assistance relates to the findings of the MPs that the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence is prevented from getting into his service vehicle. On the basis of art. 37, para. 1, t. 9 of the Rules of Procedure of the Ministry of Interior the officer of the Directorate of Gendarmerie has fulfilled his duties. In their implementation, no physical force or assistance has been used, and it is not allowed to act contrary to all persons present at the southern entrance of the National Assembly. The action taken by the police officer shall be in accordance with his rights and obligations to protect public order recorded in his duties. However, he has become subject to verbal aggression. In this case, a report has been prepared by the police officer, as are the internal rules of work, to his direct supervisor, and an examination has also been ordered to clarify all the facts and circumstances that have not yet been completed. In the event of unlawful acts, appropriate legal action will be taken on the guilty persons. In conclusion, I inform you that a check has also been carried out at the Sofia Directorate of Internal Affairs as to whether persons interested in the case have filed complaints at police stations in the capital. The verification found that no application materials or written objections to the cases cited by you have been received in the Regional Administrations of the Sofia Directorate of Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u163	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Shopov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u164	I'm not satisfied, Minister, and to put it mildly. The old practice of the Ministry of Interior continues to repress political activists and journalists, as long as they are from the Ministry of Interior. This, in the decades, has actually been a decade and a half for 15 years, not the first time. This has happened all the time. Siderov at the other entrance, at the service entrance was pushed and kicked by an officer of the Ministry of Interior. You didn't name him again in this case. In the application material, this was actually what you should have looked at. [[Reply from MP Julian Angelov.]] I don't know if you've seen it all, not only on TV, but there were other TV stations that showed it. The least sign of very bad taste is a uniformed employee to stop a reporter with a microphone in his hand. For this reason Bulgaria is placed in far more backward places on freedom of speech. If this leaks out and goes to these reporters without borders and others, to whom I am not a fan, and we from Ataka are about our internal issues and problems to solve them we Bulgarians, not to complain to others, you will see what the reaction will be. I'm not even sure that's gonna show up in the analysis and in the corresponding charts of what happened abroad. But it is not the job of a uniformed officer to interfere in the work of a Bulgarian journalist in the way that we saw him. That was frantic, insolent! Journalists have their own style, have their own methods, and we politicians may very often dislike what they do to us. I have also been the subject or subject of many such attempts at press, many such attempts at my veneration, but I believe that I have always remained calm. That is the case with all of us of the "Attack" we have never exceeded our powers.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u165	Thank you, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u166	We never abused the quality we had. [[Relations from the National Representative Julian Angelov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u167	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u168	That's why I didn't expect you to be so condescending to your employee.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u169	You guys are way out of time!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u170	Yes, I'm graduating, Mr. Chairman. There is for this purpose, in such cases employees of the National Security Service are for doing their job! I don't know how many people Karakachanov has from these employees. It was their job, not your employee's, who you're protecting and trying to protect again.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u171	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. [[Replications from OP.]] Time's up.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u172	Take your card, please. Colleagues, thank you. That was help to me. This was the last question for Minister Marinov. Thank you for participating in parliamentary control today. We continue with questions to Mrs. Petya Avramova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. She will answer a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov Ivanov about the system of supply "Dunav". You have the floor, Mr. Ivanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u173	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Dear Minister, I have noticed that lately it has become a practice of the GERB government to address the projects that have been working through the far-off communism that you deny so seriously. Along with the nuclear power plant "Belene" which you suddenly decided should be restored to invest in it, now I see that your nostalgia is chasing even more seriously and you have returned to an extremely old supply system called "Dunav." Please answer me because I am following the media, monitoring and appearances that your deputy is doing, and the Prime Minister: what is the state of the system for the supply of..Dunav......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Thank you. PRESENT EMIL CHRISTOV: Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u174	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ivanov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Regarding the question you have received about the water supply system, I would like to inform you that in the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works there was a letter from the mayors of the municipalities: Shumen, Razgrad, Targovishte, Novi Pazar, Popovo and Loznitsa on the completion of the system and its use to ensure the sustainability of the water supply of the settlements in the districts of Shumen, Targovishte and Razgrad. On 11 March in the Ministry building was held a meeting of the deputy minister Nikolay Nankov with the mayors of all municipalities who submitted the request for the completion of the system and the district governor of Targovishte district, where the questions were discussed and discussed what actions will be taken so that sufficient information can be collected in due time to organise the award of research activities and subsequently to complete the design for the site. The water supply system was developed in the early 1970s. The construction was carried out between 1975 and 1986 to the city of Razgrad and in 1987 to the town of Popovo. It includes seven shaft wells located on the terrace of the Danube River, with one number being used for the town of Ruse, and six pieces for providing water supply for the cities of Razgrad, Isperih, Popovo, Loznitsa, Targovishte, Shumen and Novi Pazar. Around the wells are separate sanitary areas. The total length of the pipes is 136 km with diameters from FI 700 to 1620 mm, executed mainly by steel pipes and some sections with technologically tense muffin tubes. The system is designed to provide water not only for district and municipal centers, but also for small adjoining settlements. As regards the water supply system, at the meeting the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works undertook to finance the preparation of a pre-investment study to examine the state of the infrastructure, to assess the current water consumption and future needs, to determine the project parameters. The necessary financial resources will be calculated to reconstruct existing pipelines, pump stations and tanks and to complete the system itself and will prepare something that is extremely important, an analysis of the costs and benefits of the investment. The construction of the water supply system will take place in the event of the construction of design engineering and construction and installation activities, after the results of the research have come out, the results of the analysis of the necessary funds for this investment and then a decision will be taken on its implementation, providing for this activity to be carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u175	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Ivanov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u176	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Minister, I am surprised by this activity regarding old systems, which, to put it mildly, even you do not know what state they are in. Perhaps with the same drive you'll go looking for others buried by your branded communism, facilities. Maybe we should start rebuilding the Kremiks? It'll be the same success. You probably do not know how much the recovery of this system will cost, but I can tell you because I will quote the Prime Minister: it will cost $48 million. lv. I can play it for you on audio. On their arrival in the town of Shumen, they and Mr. Nankov said it would cost between 48 and 50 million. lv. You can save that money, just start building, because I'm going to ask you an additional question: how much will these pre-investment studies cost? After all, this is about the water supply of several cities. Isn't it more up-to-date to look for more modern ways that can happen faster with alternative water sources from around here, for these areas instead of trying to rebuild something? At least by my information, some of the pipes have been stolen, the robbers have even been captured and are currently in prison for it. Let's see if this is really the priority of the new holding you created, or is it the job of this holding to restore state-owned water companies that are currently in tragic condition? Some of them can't even submit their application forms to apply under the Operational Programme. Tell me, however: what are the costs of these pre-investment studies that will be done, because I have already told you, and you can ask the Prime Minister how much is the cost? From now on, I'm telling you, I'm telling you, I'm telling you, I'm telling you, I'm telling you, I'm telling Those are his words. I quote him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u177	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Mrs. Secretary, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u178	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Ivanov, despite your two-time attempt to speak politically, I will continue to answer to you expertly and to tell you that the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works is committed to the problems of water supply not only in the territory of Shumen, but in the territory of the whole country and is making efforts to improve the water infrastructure, reducing the risks to the population arising from the problems we face in the water sector. We will continue to approach people with responsibility and will fully assist in providing alternative water supply as one of the options for preventing the risks of permanent drought. There will be an analytical unit that will analyse any idea and any project that will be made from this moment on, or one that exists in the archives, especially in the relevant water companies or municipalities in the country, so that the best solutions are found to be refined, to secure the financial resources and to find a balanced approach for the whole country so that people have alternative water supply in crises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u179	Thank you, dear Minister. The second question is again by the MP Ivan Valentinov Ivanov about alternative water sources for supply of drinking water to the municipality of Shumen. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u180	Thank you, Madam President! Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Dear Minister, I will allow myself, as the questions are related, to repeat the question to which you did not answer me: how much it will cost the Ministry or Holdinga precisely those of the pre-investment costs for the system Please answer me. I suppose a sentence won't break the question? In this regard, because the questions are related, I would ask you to answer me: what are the possibilities for supply of drinking water to Shumen Municipality of alternative water sources in cases of disruption and serious accidents? I'm shutting down the system here. We've talked about it so far. We are talking about such sources that are on the territory of the municipality and to date. [[Reply from MP Hamid Hamid.]] About the Dunav, Mr Hamid, we've been talking so far. Which are these water sources and what will be the cost of the water supply.Shoumen, for the use of these water sources, we would like to know. I think this is not political speaking when we talk about the water of a whole municipality or of an entire area, because you know that the accidents there are extremely common We're waiting, God forbid, for one of the creditors to want to shut down the water company, because the costs are not just for [[speaking indistinctly]] electrical supply, but also for other costs incurred over the years.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u181	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. You have the floor to answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u182	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ivanov, in addition to the answer to my previous question in my speech, I made it very clear that it would be done before an investment study to analyse the existing infrastructure, to analyse what should be rebuilt, to make an analysis of the costs You don't expect me to be some kind of gross estimate, do you?! It may have been said in public space and by the Prime Minister, but I think you understand yourself that in order for us to have an accurate value that is close to the truth, we need to do the feasibility study, see the state of the existing infrastructure, see what needs to be built, value it. Then I can answer you responsibly how much this project will cost.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u183	How much is the research going to cost?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u184	The research hasn't been commissioned, so I can't tell you how much it's gonna cost. We are yet to commission, we are preparing a task to award a feasibility study. On the other question that you asked about other options, these are related questions, so I will continue to answer you in the sense of these two questions. For an alternative water supply for the town of Shumen, I inform you that there are several groups of drilling and shaft wells close to the city, which are not in operation, because there is enough water in the dam. If necessary, measures could be taken to deconservate and restore, one of the options being alternative water supply, both the completion of a water supply system, as an idea, as well as the restoration of these wells and shaft wells. The water supply for the city of Shumen since 1982 is carried out by the dam. It is one of the largest dams in the country with a volume of 311.8 million cubic meters, from which the cities of Shumen, Veliki Preslav and Targovishte are supplied, including several smaller settlements. Currently the available volume in the dam is 164 million cubic meters, which represents 53% of the total volume. Before putting into service the water supply system from the reservoir of Shumen, the village of Dibic, the village of Belokopitovo, the village of Panayot Volov, the municipality of Shumen, and the town of Veliki Preslav used several groups of systems from the already mentioned wells and shaft wells, the water from which was insufficient, with variable flow rate and quality. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'll finish in my line, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u185	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Here's a line, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u186	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! You'll excuse me, Madam Minister, for mixing the two questions, but they're really connected. My request is to advise your alternates when they hold a press conference and report such things to consult you with regard to the information you will then submit, so that it can be made clear to the public what is coming, because yesterday there was a press conference and it was announced that money will be spent if you want and there will be a search for how much money they have reported to exist to prevent such confusions from happening here, from the stands. After all, it is about taxpayers' money, and this cost is worth what it will cost to build these pre-project researches for the system "Dunav" affects nearly 100,000 people. To get back to the other question. Of course, it is very important that you have requested information from the water operator, Shumen, what are these alternative sources, whether they can be resumed in the shortest possible time by restoring pumps, by connecting to the existing water transport network for the city, in order to avoid in the future severe accidents, which happen very often to be attached to the existing water system. I've done my job, and some of them I've researched are those that are powered by pumping in the Mutnitsa. I hope you have that information. The question is, can this thing be done in short time, if they are not in large sizes, of course, to protect mostly the inhabitants of Shumen, because they are most affected by emergency water stops, as often happens? The water stops for three or four days, which is not good, especially in the current situation with COVID-19. Imagine a large district town of the tenth in the country, remaining four or five days without water in this situation, what a miracle it will be there! The request is from me and all citizens to find this approach, which with little means to give breath before the possible implementation of the big project under the Operational Programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u187	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. You have the floor for the duvet, Mrs Avramova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u188	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ivanov, yes, as you are familiar and interested, the largest of these systems, is actually a water supply system, which includes 12 deep drillings located on the terrace of the river Mutnitsa, which are currently in reserve, with up to 150 liters per second in case of 450 liters per second needed for the town of Shumen and the villages of Panayot Volov, Dibitch and Belokopitovo. The reconstruction of wells from the system of the Marage and several other systems, wells located in the terraces of the Kamchia River and the Vrana River would provide about 70 liters more per second. However, for the inclusion of these water sources as alternative, research and development projects are necessary for their recovery. You probably know that they are not in good technical condition, and according to a preliminary assessment carried out by the water operator, the necessary means for putting the systems into operation are about 10 million. lv. A third of the required water quantity for the city of Shumen may be provided from these systems. So we're going to look for options, we're going to choose the best option that is technically possible, and it can lead to alternative water supply. Today, you and I have actually discussed two of the options: the Dunav system and the restoration of these wells. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u189	Thank you, dear Minister. We move on to the next question from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova about road III-5502, Dryanovo Municipality, in the part of the exit of the town of Dryanovo in the direction of Kilifarevo to the village of Ganchovets. You have the floor, Mrs. Sidorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u190	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, my question to you today concerns an urgent repair of Republican road III-5502, and in its part from the exit of the town of Dryanovo in the direction of the town of Kilifarevo to the exit of the village of Ganchovets. This is all on the territory of Gabrovo district. A number of holes have been opened along the road, which pose a danger to moving cars and pedestrians. Failure to carry out repairs in this area over the last few years has led to deterioration of the condition of the road, with the current imbalances being a prerequisite for road accidents or serious damage to passing motor vehicles. The depth of the holes in places is 15 centimetres, and in certain parts their density is so high that their circumvention, especially in the presence of oncoming traffic, is impossible. The traffic for the eastern parts of the city will also be redirected through the village of Ganchovets, which will further hamper the movement in the region in question. At the same time, part of the road, in its part in Veliko Tarnovo region, was completely renovated in 2019. However, one half of the road was repaired last year, the next time remains like a lunar landscape. In this regard, my question to you is: will it be foreseen and what means and measures will be taken to repair the road and really not have the likeness of a road in the municipality of Dryanovo?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u191	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sidorova. You have the floor to answer, Mrs Avramova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u192	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Sidorova, Republican Road III-5502 on the territory of Gabrovo District, with a length of 9.8 km, is indeed of poor operational condition, as you have just noted, especially in the section from the exit of the town of Dryanovo to km 15+190 to the village of Ganchovets km 12+600. There are single deep holes, cross and longitudinal cracks, subsidences. During the third-class period, current repairs related to improving the condition of the pavement are carried out each year, with a cold patching of compromised sites with polymer modified bitumen emulsion and a pressure fraction, shrub cutting and lawn mowing on banquets for better visibility. In the section from the border with Veliko Tarnovo district to Dryanovo there are four large facilities, where repair activities were carried out last year, including complete re-asphalting and repair of the railings. For the sustained improvement, for which you are in fact looking for an answer, preventive repair of the third-class route is required with an estimated value of 5 million. $120,000. BGN, which at this stage we do not have as funding. The opportunities at the moment are to continue with ongoing care, according to the available financial resource. The reconstructions provided for rehabilitation and projects designed in 2020 with funds from the budget held will be determined under the forthcoming financial framework of the Road Infrastructure Agency for 2020, on the basis of which the Agency's investment programme is also planned. Over the past few years, due to a systemic shortage of funds, it has been necessary for the Road Infrastructure Agency to carefully plan its investment programme and, despite the restrictions, to look for options for improving Republican roads in Gabrovo through budget funds, targeted or European funding. I would like to stress that the Road Infrastructure Agency is also preparing for the next programming period with objects and projects. You know that the focus of the projects and in this programming period was to improve the operational state of the roads from the third-class road network, which for the most part are in a poor operational state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u193	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. You have the floor for a line, Mrs. Sidorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u194	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Minister, at the beginning, in the circle of the joke, I would like to say that I am very grateful that you did not tell me that funds would be provided from toll fees because your predecessor of all issues related to the third-class road network promised us that there would be money from there. In this regard, thank you. I sincerely hope to find the means to repair this road because it is indeed in a very difficult operational state, as you said, a prerequisite is for the crashes and hinders the normal movement of the people of Dryanovo municipality. I hope that the Road Infrastructure Agency will soon define its financial framework and in this financial framework a Republican route III-5502 will be set aside and funds will be allocated to patching up large craters, because these are really not ordinary holes, these are craters that make it difficult to move. I count on you, I also rely on your desire to repair the Republican roads, because in most of the municipality of Dryanovo, and not only in the municipality of Dryanovo, and in the district of Gabrovo, where more than half of the roads are in bad and critical condition, you remember, last year I had such a question for you. I hope that the Gabrovo region will not be forgotten in the financial framework of the Road Infrastructure Agency, in particular, and this time, there will be funds and the road will be in a normal state in which people can pass peacefully.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u195	Thank you, Mrs. Sidorova. Would you like the word for the doppelganger? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u196	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Sidorova, actually Gabrovo District is one of the areas in which a lot of money is invested in road infrastructure. I have answered you a question on 24 January about investment in road infrastructure, so you have information about the sites that are being implemented in Gabrovo District, some of them implemented under the Operational Programme We are looking at as much as possible to find funding from all of the operational programmes, which are targeted funds, such as every year the Road Infrastructure Agency has received from the state budget, and the funds it has in its own budget. So I hope that this year there will be an opportunity for the Regional Road Management to assign repairs to this road section. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u197	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. We move on to the issue from the National Representative Ivan Chenchev concerning the lack of water supply in the village of Bogovtsi, the village of Opitzvet and the village of Bedden, the municipality of Kostinbrod. Here you go, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u198	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, during the open foster district in Sofia in recent years, I found an alarming trend for lack of water supply in the villages of Bogovtsi, Opicolor and Bedden, which are in the municipality of Kostinbrod. The water sources there and this year are at their operating minimum. The repeated signals to people from the specified settlements to the institutions have not been effective so far. Adults, young children, young families, as well as all who use the properties for tourism during the summer season are placed under water mode. One of the reasons is that the plumbing network is 50 years old and is made up of asbestos-ocymic tubes that are repeatedly compromised. The high location of some of the properties in these villages leads to a year-round lack of water, insufficient flow rate, increase in repair costs, increase the price of water supply and its maintenance. The flow of drilling at Opicolor has halved, and the source of the village of Bedden is also reduced, where part of the network of Kostinbrod, the village and the landfill for household waste are fed. Repair of the central crane in the village of Bogovtsi is planned. At the stop of the power supply, the non-digitalized pumps in the pump stations also stop. There are no treatment plants leading to mud consumption at the initial start of the water after an accident. Acquitted are the claims of inspectors from the Water and Water and Water and Water and Sofia district that the lack of water was due to its waste of water, the cutting of forests in the areas and the dry winter and summer periods. Residents of Bogovtsi offer a solution, and it is very important with the upcoming complete repair of the road from Belidiye Khan to Breznik, passing through the village of Bogovtsi, to start building a new plumbing in the village. Dear Minister, because of the above, I ask for your answer: will a project be implemented for a complete change of the water supply network, pump stations and the main crane in the three villages and will the inhabitants of the villages be familiar with the projects to renovate the water network, the ways to finance them and the period of their implementation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u199	Thank you, dear Mr. Chenchev. Here you are, Mrs Avramova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u200	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chenchev, the question you have asked is complex and concerns a large part of the small settlements in the country, such as Bogovtsi, Opicolor and Bedden. The municipality of Kostinbrod, such as Water Supply and Sewerage Sofia, provides water supply and sewerage services to 234 thousand inhabitants from the entire administrative territory of Sofia. The localities you refer to with water supply problems are population: 122 inhabitants of the village of Bogovtsi, 359 residents of the village of Opitzvet and 255 inhabitants of the village of Bedden. I say the number of residents, because you know that the opportunities given by the operational programs and the funds used to replace the water lines were for the large settlements of more than 10 thousand equivalent inhabitants, which in fact leads to problems for many years underfunded sector, old, depreciated pipes such as the pipes in these three settlements. The frequent interruption of water supply is due, on the one hand, to a reduction in the flow rate of the water sources, which was observed in the last one year for large areas of the country and, on the other hand, to the large number of accidents occurring on the external water supply lines, as well as in the internal water supply network, built mainly of asbestos-ocycent pipes. The water supply of the villages is provided pumping from underground water sources, which also leads to difficulty and expensive water supply to the population. The problems of infrastructure throughout Sofia area are great and the revenues from the provision of water services are limited due to the small density of the population of the separate territory of the water operator. Despite this, the water supply water supply has taken operational measures to improve the reliability of the water supply by replacing the pumps at the Bedden pump station, as a result of which the pumping station is currently operating normally and is planned in a short period of time to replace the central stop valve in the village of Bogovtsi. These short-term measures aim at improving the water supply of settlements and overcoming the worst problems facing residents. At present, given the fact that there have been heavy rainfall in the last month, the flow rate of the water sources is good and the settlements have a normal water supply. The problems that you indicate are mainly related to the frequent accidents of the water supply network, which, as I mentioned, is morally outdated and the water and water supply.Sofia, is making efforts for the timely removal of the accidents for the entire separate territory, as well as for these three settlements. I would like to make it clear that through the village of Bogovtsi there is a Republican road III-811 which starts from the road Sofia and ends at Palilula, Pernik district. The total length of the road is 44 km, the section through the village of Bogovtsi is 1.2 km. The road infrastructure leading to the villages Bedden and Opicolor is municipal. The Road Infrastructure Agency is a contracting entity of a technical project to carry out major repairs, rehabilitation of the third-class road along its length. For the purpose of construction stage the project is divided into four sections and the section through Bogovtsi falls into the first section. In December 2019 public procurement was announced for the selection of contractor of the construction and installation works of two of the second and third sections and the first and fourth are planned at a subsequent stage in accordance with the Agency's budget. The prepared project treats the replacement of part of the street plumbing network of the village of Bogovtsi within the scope of reconstruction, the rehabilitation of the third-class route III-811, which passes through the settlement, the replacement of etherite with high density polyethylene tubes, and the construction of additional building plumbing deviations. In addition, I would like to clarify that, when using the funds from the Operational Programme, the environment, which includes the six new, newly consolidated areas such as the Sofia area, will be drawn up regional pre-investment studies so that funds can be invested in the major settlements in the next programming period, which in turn will release the financial resources of the water company in order to be able to invest its own funds in the repair, replacement and rehabilitation of the network in small settlements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u201	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. Here's a line for you, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u202	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, I hope that what you have said will be realized in time, because, without underestimating Bedden and Opicolor, people have suffered a lot over the years. They were very worried about a concession, an investment intention which, fortunately, was terminated because the water supply also concerned this concession, this investment intention. So it would have made the water supply of the village more difficult for the 1.2km stretch that passes through the Bogeys. I was there on the spot, and I saw that she was extremely compromised. I am glad that repairs have been provided and, as I said, I hope all this will happen in time, because, apart from the officially registered residents of the village, many people from Sofia are already purchasing properties there. People are reasonably worried because indeed many of the houses are in higher places, the properties are in higher places, and there is no water supply, and it has been for years. Thank you for your reply. We will monitor the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u203	Thank you, dear Mr. Chenchev. Would you like a douche? No. Thank you for participating in the parliamentary control, dear Mrs Avramova. At the request of the Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov, I postponed by one week the issue of the impact of the coronavirus outbreak of COVID-19 on the Bulgarian economy and possible measures in support of the business. I'm counting on the answer to be even more consistent next Friday. His request is that he is currently meeting with representatives of the major retail chains, which I think is more important at the moment. The issue of the MPs Violeta Zheleva and Nadia Klisurska is also postponed regarding the codification of the social system to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva. We're running out of parliamentary control. I'll rest until we're ready to proceed. Parliamentary groups will be informed. I'm taking a break. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u204	Colleagues, please take your seats. As we noted and voted earlier, we will continue with legislative activity. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose to include the following additional points in the Work Programme of the National Assembly: 1. First vote on the Bill amending the Penal Code. Exporters: Anna Alexandrova and a group of MPs on 13 March 2020. 2. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Health Act. Importers: Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs on 13 March 2020. Please, voting mode. They voted 163 MPs: 163, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Let's start with point one: FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE PUNISHING CODEX. Mrs. Alexandrova, please give us the First Reading Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u205	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending the Penal Code, No 054-01-22, submitted by Anna Vasileva Aleksandrova and a group of MPs on 13 March 2020 At its extraordinary meeting held on 13 March 2020, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Law amending the Penal Code, No 054-01-22, submitted by Anna Vasileva Alexandrova and a group of MPs on 13 March 2020. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Danail Kirilov, Minister and the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria Ms. Maria Shishkova, Deputy Prosecutor General. The bill amending the Penal Code aims to refine the provisions on crimes against national health. An increase in the amount of the sanction imposed is proposed when the act is directed against compliance with the rules and measures to counter the spread of infectious diseases. It is envisaged that when the act was committed during an epidemic, pandemic or emergency, the penalty would be imprisonment for up to five years and a fine of ten to fifty thousand levs. After the vote, the Committee on Legal Issues with 20 votes for the Criminal Code, No 054-01-22, submitted by Anna Vasileva Alexandrova and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 13 March 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u206	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Has the Criminal Code report been issued to the MPs?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u207	No. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u208	Is it there? He's gone. Change the dot then. Because Mrs. Daritkova was at an interview, so we switched points. But then let's make a suggestion: we interrupt, so we can make a copy of the Report so you can have it. We're swapping points. I propose, honourable Members, a procedure to replace point one with point two, so that the first item becomes the First paragraph of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Health Act and the second paragraph... first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code. Please, voting mode. This is because the report on the Criminal Code at second reading is not ready yet, is not distributed to the MPs. Vote 164 MPs: 159, against 3, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Moving on to: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE HEALTH LAW. Mrs. Daritkova, would you like to introduce us to the Health Committee Report?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u209	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a bill amending and supplementing the Health Act, No 054-01-21, submitted by Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs on 13 March 2020 At its extraordinary meeting held on 13 March 2020, the Committee on Health examined and discussed a bill amending and supplementing the Health Act, No 054-01-21, submitted by Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs on 13 March 2020. The meeting was attended by the Minister of Health Mr. Kiril Ananiev and the Deputy Minister of Health Mrs. Zheny Nacheva. The bill and its motives were presented by Dr. Daniela Daritkova, who informed the MPs that the current legislative initiative is related to the growing spread of the COVID-19 virus and taking the necessary measures to limit it to the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. The proposed regulatory changes aim to increase the amount of the fine for people who are suffering from contagious disease and who refuse mandatory isolation and treatment. The same norm is intended to apply to contact persons with proven disease carriers. Normal changes are proposed in view of the fact that a number of citizens quarantined by the competent authorities of state health control do not comply with it, which leads to a drastic increase in the spread of the virus in our country. Dr. Daritkova explained that the expected results of the implementation of the proposed regulations are related to ensuring timely protection of the citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria from the spread of the COVID-19 virus. The Members of the National Assembly agreed that the proposed amendments and additions were timely and should be adopted within a reasonable time. On the basis of the discussion and the vote taken on the following results: 12 votes for the Health Act, No 054-01-21, submitted by Daniela Daritkova and a group of members of the National Assembly on 13 March 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u210	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. Statements, coworkers?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u211	I apologize. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u212	Access to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u213	Madam President, please vote on admission to the Chamber of the Deputy Minister of Health Mrs. Zheny Nacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u214	Please, voting mode. Vote 164 MPs: 161, against 2, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please invite Deputy Minister Nacheva to the Chamber. I'm opening the debate. Colleagues, you have a say in this. I don't see any wishes. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Health Act, No 054-01-21, submitted by Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs on 13 March 2020. They voted 173 MPs: for 173, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Procedure Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u215	Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I am making a procedural proposal: that the bill which has just been adopted in the first vote should also be subject to a second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u216	Please, voting mode. Vote 174 MPs: for 174, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u217	supposed to amend and supplement the Health Act § 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 63 is created. 6: The measures referred to in paragraph 1 shall be adopted in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 1 may also include a prohibition to enter the territory of the country of nationals of other countries in the event of a declared emergency under art. 84, p. 12 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, with the exception of citizens with permanent, long-term or long-term residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as members of their families. § 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The 215 sentence first is amended as follows: 61 as well as a contact person who, through examination, has confirmed the possession of contagious disease referred to in art. 61, who refuses mandatory isolation and treatment, is punished with a fine of 5000 BGN. Final provisions § 3. In the Public Procurement Act (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 13, para. 1 is created t. 21: ..21. when purchasing from the contracting entities of medical devices and personal protective equipment necessary to ensure the anti-epidemic measures introduced by an act of the Minister of Health or Director of Regional Health Inspection in cases of declared emergency under art. 84, p. 12 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. § 4. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u218	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. Statements? I don't see any speeches. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the name of the Law, § 1, § 2, the name of the section "Concluding provisions', § 3 and § 4. Vote 174 MPs: for 174, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Moving on to point two: FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE PUNISHING CODEX. The report was read by Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u219	We don't have the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u220	Your report's been distributed. The Quaestors are handing it out now.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u221	The law is gone.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u222	The law is gone, yes, yes. Colleagues, I suggest a five-minute break while you can... [[Sighs:?!]] Wait a minute, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The Quaestors, are you handing it out? Okay, okay, we're moving on then, no rest. The motive thing, the warrant, everything's fine. All right, let's move on, folks. The first reading report Mrs. Alexandrova read it. I give the floor for speeches. [[Replys: No, no, no!]] Mr. Kutev wants a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u223	Madam President, honourable Members! I am using a position from the National Assembly's Rules to express an opinion that is different from the opinion of my parliamentary group. Personally, I will not support this law for several reasons. The first is that this morning, when I was coming here, after yesterday's long anticipation by the entire Bulgarian people in hours what would actually come out of the meeting of the Council of Ministers, I deeply hoped that what we see in the morning would be not just an emergency, but some set of reasonable measures that would lead to limitation and resolution of the crisis. There's definitely talk about what they were trying to do from both headquarters and the government. Personally, I do not believe that the proposed changes, as well as the emergency situation, do not think that they will actually lead to a fight against the virus, which at least we all need. I expected that today in the National Assembly it will be a question of how to provide hospital beds, how to provide respiratory apparatus, how to provide disinfectants and a bunch of other things that I do not understand, because this is the work of doctors and those who deal with medical management. Unfortunately, what you are offering us right now is actually a new portion of increasing punishment for citizens. I want to surprise you with a thesis. Citizens need to be treated, not punished. What we all expect from us is for the health system that costs billions to work so that when you get sick you can be guaranteed the health care recorded in the Constitution. Instead of measures in terms of how we will treat them in the previous Bill, we are actually talking about how we will punish them to a lesser extent, but to this extent, we are actually talking about how we will punish them. [[Noise and lines.]] I would like to see measures which force the government and the government to do so so that epidemiological conditions cannot be created or if they are created, they can be overcome not at the expense of citizens. I do not think that the citizens are responsible for the current situation and I do not think that they should be punished for it. And what you're offering us with this bill is basically an increase in punishment. Among other things, we have already seen an order from the Minister of Health, which closes shops, bars and so on, which is generally a severe blow to private business. It must be happening all over the world right now, but for the most part of the world, there are measures against it, and I didn't see a word about how you're going to compensate them? I guess next week we'll get to the question of how we make up for the business that's going to go bankrupt. I guess next week we'll get to maybe tax breaks for those who are in crisis, maybe next week we'll get to some more concrete measures on how we provide those medical activities that we can't provide. Judging from what's happening in Italy, we're back and forth. And we're not back because the citizens have abused something, we're back because the health care system we pay for hasn't done her job. Because with billions of dollars in healthcare, in the presence of a state budget, in the presence of a bunch of state options, we have ultimately left things in a situation where these citizens have no stability and no security in the health system and in their own lives. So I want to see how Bulgaria cares for its citizens, not how it punishes them. [[(Noise in GERB. Line: Come on, sit down!]] I'm deliberately silent right now because I hear a few people yelling at me from the other side: "Come on, sit down!!" Look, I'll sit down, things will go on. After all, the outrage and cynicism you display is entirely at your expense. If you please, let two or three people who called and said, "Come on, sit down!" I'd love to get into this conversation. But, again, the cynicism of accusing citizens, not your ministers, is unacceptable. It's a form of colon, which, believe me, I'm not the only one who's gonna notice. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u224	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. A statement, Mrs. Taskov? Line up, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u225	Madam President, honourable Members! I take the floor simply because someone has obviously misled Mr. Kutev, maybe he has not read the Law well and I just think that we really need the right information to reach the Bulgarian citizens. No one adopts a Law to fine some Bulgarian citizens just like that and not be treated against them. The law, which we all supposedly agree on, relates only to measures to limit the infection. We are talking about undisciplined people who are quarantined and do not fulfil their duty to comply with it. So there is no such mass fine of Bulgarian citizens. This law, which we urgently have to adopt, does not foresee this. Please, Mr. Kutev, reconsider your decision so you're not deluded yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u226	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taskova. Second line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Kutev, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u227	Mrs. Taskov, I'm amazed at the conversation we're having! Is this a National Assembly or something? You just amaze me! All right, let's read paragraph one: 1 after the word "Orders" is added "rules or measures" and the words "probation" or a fine from 100 to 300 BGN" shall be replaced by a forfeiture of 3 years and a fine from 1000 to 10 000 BGN. What are you talking about? Next para. 2 is amended as follows: from 5 years in prison and from 10 to 15 thousand. What are you talking about? So, we've been talking about a prison for five years, and you're talking about some dishonest citizens. What didn't you understand? Are you going to shut down the citizens? What have you decided? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u228	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, please be quiet! Any other speeches? Mr. Zablyanov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u229	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Today is a memorable day for the National Assembly, I suppose, and for many of our citizens. Not only because we made a decision this morning to introduce a state of emergency, but also about the way we propose changes in laws and taking, so to speak, additional, extreme or extraordinary measures. There is no need to justify that the government started its activities backwards. Firstly, it announced in the middle of the night the introduction of a state of emergency without anyone knowing what this state of emergency means, including the government itself, and what is proposed to us as legislation afterwards confirms this fact. What can be done as a result of the proposed legislative amendments? Firstly, the National Assembly took up legislation today after lunch, in a semi-haotic environment with vague proposals from the Ministry of Health. The proposals made in connection with the Penal Code are not clear whether the Ministry of Justice is behind them. That is, the Council of Ministers in this situation is absent. Importers of the proposals in question shall be the Members of the National Assembly. This morning we voted with our decision the responsibility for introducing the state of emergency to be the Council of Ministers. The exceptional measures in the legislation make them MPs from different parliamentary groups! Where is the executive's responsibility on the application? It is the executive power that must develop the measures and propose them to the National Assembly within the meaning of the Decision which was voted on this morning. The fact that the executive is not ready with the proposed measures does not mean that there should be a process of legislative improvisation here. This is not just about today. The manner of preparation of legislative acts by our National Assembly is the subject of criticism by the professional circles for quite a long time. The way we're doing it today, we've only confirmed the critical arguments at our address. With what should a thoughtful, sensible package of measures start, extraordinary measures that are undoubtedly needed, from the situation in Europe and the world? It should have started with the state, role and responsibility of the health or health institutions in the Republic of Bulgaria. What are the opportunities for every Bulgarian citizen who feels or feels that there are some symptoms of the disease, which is described wonderfully on all television channels, to go immediately and seek medical attention? What of these amendments today provides such an opportunity? [[(Replication by the National Representative Daniela Daritkova:]] In these amendments that you propose, there is no such possibility. The only option is to call his personal physician as they report on the TV channels by phone. And from here on out? From you, honourable Members, we did not expect, but we expected from the government, Minister Ananiev to submit a meaningful proposal for quick, extreme amendments to the medical institutions, to make it clear which of the medical institutions will take over the emergency cases. [[Noise and lines.]] Who will take responsibility for the absence of legislation? Can you urge your colleagues not to replicate me while I'm talking?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u230	Please don't replicate Mr. Jablyanov! Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u231	I didn't hear you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u232	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u233	No, no, I heard about me. You can ask them anyway?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u234	I asked them, I asked them.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u235	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u236	Please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u237	Regarding some of the notes from the Chamber, which I take into account, not for anything else, but because some of them are reasonable. What he had to do today seems to me that the National Assembly will schedule an extraordinary meeting, albeit for Saturday, albeit for Sunday; to wait for the Council of Ministers, the experts from the ministries to prepare legislative and legislative amendments to be in line with other regulations. What we are doing today is a PR exercise, and on top of that, what we are starting with, and here I refer to the statement of my colleague Anton Kutev, what we are starting with is the Penal Code! Dear colleagues, there was a call from perhaps about a week ago by the World Health Organization for treatment of the sick. Sick people aren't lawbreakers, they're not criminals. [[noise and lines]] They are people, our fellow citizens, who need compassion and help. The National Assembly cannot begin with an amendment to the Penal Code for escaping from the hospital. Someone got scared and ran away from the hospital and went to jail in five years! That's what the Penal Code says. [[Noise and lines.]] What you are proposing, honourable Members, is not the best measures that our National Assembly should take today. The measures are proposed as a result of the created emergency situation, the chaos in the legislative and executive powers caused by the majority. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u238	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the first vote a bill amending the Penal Code, No 054-01-22, submitted by Anna Vasileva Alexandrova and a group of MPs on 13 March 2020. Vote 168 MPs: for 167, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Alexandrova, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u239	Madam President, honourable Members! Please, on the basis of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure and Procedure of the National Assembly shall be subject to a second vote at first reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u240	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Please vote on the procedure so made. Vote 168 MPs: for 167, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u241	The Law of the Republic of Bulgaria on the Law of the Republic of Bulgaria on the Law of the Republic of Bulgaria on the Law of I have a procedure. Here to be made an editorial amendment: to read the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Penal Code. I'm the only one. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 355 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 after the word "orders" is added "rules or measures" and the words "with probation" or a fine from one hundred to three hundred levs are replaced by "with imprisonment up to three years and a fine from one thousand to ten thousand levs." 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: If the act occurred during an epidemic, pandemic or emergency related to deaths, the penalty shall be imprisonment up to five years and a fine of ten to fifty thousand levs.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u242	Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u243	Editorial amendment I would like to do: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 355 the following amendments and additions are made:
ParlaMint-BG_2020-03-13.u244	Colleagues, we're starting to vote. First, I put to the vote the editorial amendment in the name of the Law. They voted 163 MPs: 163, no opposition and no abstentions. I put to the vote the supplement made by Mrs. Alexandrova in paragraph only:....................................................................................... 355 the following amendments and additions are made: Vote 158 MPs: 158, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. I now put to the vote the name by the voting editorial amendment and paragraph alone with the relevant supplement. They voted 164 MPs: for 164, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted. My fellow Members, I have sent all the ministers letters with their respective proposals for legislative initiatives. We expect such proposals from them by Monday. Stand by on Tuesday for extraordinary committees on the relevant topics that the ministers will ask us. On Wednesday 18 March 2020, we will have a regular plenary session at 9.00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
