ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Dear colleagues, I will introduce you to the draft work programme of the National Assembly for 17 May 2020: "1." Second vote on the Food Bill importing the Council of Ministers, 26 September 2017, adopted at first vote on 26 October 2017. 2. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection and Development of Culture, importing the Council of Ministers, 28 January 2020, adopted on the first vote on 26 February 2020. 3. Report on the Commission's activities in countering corruption and withdrawing illegally acquired property for 2019, importing the Anti-Corruption Commission and withdrawing illegally acquired property, 26 March 2020, item 1 for Thursday, 28 May 2020. 4. Second vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the European Structural and Investment Funds Fund Management Act, importers Ivelina Vasileva and Evgenia Angelova, 12 February 2020, adopted on the first vote on 4 March 2020, item 2 for Thursday, 28 May 2020. 5. Report on the state of defence and the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2019, importing the Council of Ministers, 16 April 2020, item 3rd for Thursday, 28 May 2020. 6. Report on the activity of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission for 2019, importing the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, 30 March 2020, item 4 for Thursday, 28 May 2020. 7. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the provision of consulting services between the Ministry of Education and Science and the Executive Agency of the Ministry of Education and Science and the Education for Smart Growth and Bulgaria, of the one part, and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, of the other part, signed on 12 February 2020, importing the Council of Ministers, 4 May 2020, item 1 for Friday, 29 May 2020. 8. Parliamentary control. Please vote on the presented Programme Project. Vote 176 MPs: for 128, against none, abstention 48. The motion is accepted. Draft and draft resolutions from 20 May 2020 to 26 May 2020. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on State Reserves and Wartime Stocks. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism is leading, it is also allocated to the Energy Commission, the Budget and Finance Committee, the Committee on the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and the Fight against the Grey Economy and Smuggling. Draft decision to announce on 22 March the National Flag Day and the National Unity. Importers are Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Messages: Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria shall inform the National Assembly that: - First, in the performance of art. 65, para. 1 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria has, by its order, authorised the dispatch of a military vessel to the Corveta of Bodri, with its state arms and crew, soldiers for participation in an American-Ukrainian exercise between 18 July and 1 August 2020 in the area of the port of Odessa, the territorial sea and the adjacent area of Ukraine; - second, in the performance of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria allied and foreign armed forces by its order has authorised the passage through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria of a non-military nature of a Boeing-B 747 aircraft with its air force crew of the Islamic Republic of Iran. The authorisation shall be valid for the period from 26 May to 1 June 2020 for a total of six fields for the purpose of carrying agricultural cargo. The notifications were received on 21 May 2020. No. 003-09-36 and ex. No 003-09-37 and granted to the Defence Committee. In the National Assembly on the basis of art. 133, para. 3 of the Public Finance Act is a summary of the Report on the degree of implementation of the policies and defence programs of the Ministry of Defence, the structures of direct subordination of the Minister of Defence and the Bulgarian Army in 2019. The part of the Father representing classified information with a security graffiti is located in the Register for National Classified Information of the National Assembly, pl. "Alexander I", et. Two, room 280. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report was sent to the Budget and Finance Committee and to the Defence Committee. We continue with the first item of today's agenda: SECOND VOICE OF THE FOOD LAWPROECT. Here you are, Mrs. Belova, to introduce us to the Second Reading Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u2	Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please vote to be granted access to the meeting of the National Assembly for Associate Professor Dr. Janko Ivanov.. Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, Dr. Ilian Kostov. Deputy Director of the Food Chain Risk Assessment Centre, Dr. Petya Petkova. Director of the Agricultural Chain Directorate. Politics in the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests, and Dr. Dimitar Dimitrov State Expert in the Department of Agriculture, Food and Forestry.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u3	Please vote on the procedure for admission. They voted 159 MPs: 152, none, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Here you go, Mrs. Belova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u4	On 26 September 2017, the Council of Ministers submitted a report on the Food Bill, No 702-01-18, adopted by the Council of Ministers on 26 September 2017, adopted at the first vote on 26 October 2017. Second vote. "The Food Act." "The food service." "The food service." The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. "Chapter 1" - General. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter One. "Section I "The Object and Purpose of the Law ". The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section I.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u5	Statements? I can't see. We vote on the text of the importer for the name of the Law, the name of Chapter One and the name of Section I supported by the Commission. Vote 142 MPs: for 136, no against, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u6	Proposal of Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 1: Art. 1. (1) This law shall lay down: 1. the requirements for food safety; 2. the requirements for business operators and persons working in establishments for the production, processing and/or distribution of food; 3. the requirements for packaging, labelling, presentation and advertising of food; 4. the requirements for the production, processing and/or distribution of food; 5. the requirements of the establishments for production and wholesale trade and the requirements for retail trade in materials and articles intended for contact with food; 6. the requirements for the transport of food; 7. the requirements for trade in food from a distance; 8. the requirements for natural mineral, spring and table waters; 9. requirements for foods intended for infants and young children, foods for special medical purposes and foods in which vitamins, minerals and certain other substances have been added; 10. requirements for additives, enzymes and flavourings in food and food supplements; 11. the requirements for food intended for use in intensive muscle load; 12. requirements for genetically modified foods; 13. food requirements treated with ionizing radiation; 14. requirements for smoke flavourings used or intended for use in or on foods; 15. requirements for new foods; 16. the terms and conditions for carrying out food banking; 17. the official control bodies for the production, processing and/or distribution of food; 18. the terms and conditions for the export of foodstuffs; 19. the functions of the National Food Council; 20. the functions and powers of industry organisations of producers, processors and/or food distributors; 21. requirements for the activities of the Reconciliation Commission. (2) The provisions of the law shall not apply to: 1. primary production of food for personal consumption in the household; 2. the preparation and storage at home of foods intended for personal consumption in the household; 3. the production, receipt, processing, labelling and trade of food under art. 1 of the Law on Wine and Spirit Drinks. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 2. Under art. 3 there is a proposal of the MP Andrian Raykov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 3: Art. 3. The State Food Safety Policy shall be conducted by the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, the Minister of Health and the Minister of Economy under the powers conferred on them by law. "Department II... General food The Commission supports the text of the importer in principle and proposes the following version for the name of Section II: The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 4. Art. 4. (1) Food shall be fit for human consumption in respect of its physical, chemical, radiological and microbiological qualities and composition and shall not pose a danger to human health. (2) Food must comply with the requirements for production, processing and/or distribution laid down in the law, its implementing regulations and European Union food law. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 5. Art. 5. The specific requirements for food groups and subgroups or certain food groups or food subgroups, their production, processing and/or distribution shall be determined by regulations of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u7	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 1 of the Commission Report; the text of the importer for art. 2, supported by the Commission; the version of art. 3 of the Commission Report; the version of the name of Section II of the Commission Report; the version of art. 4 of the Commission Report; and the version of art. 5 on the Commission report. They voted 130 MPs: for 128, against none, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u8	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 6: Art. 6. The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, respectively the Minister of Health, shall lay down national measures in accordance with art. Art. 1 (3) and Art. 1 (3) 13 (3) of Regulation (EC) No 852/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2004 on the hygiene of foodstuffs, hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EC) No The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 7. Art. 7. (1) The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall establish national measures in accordance with art. Article 1 (4) and (5) and Article 1 (1) 10 (3) of Regulation (EC) No 853/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2004 laying down specific hygiene rules for food of animal origin, hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EC) No 853/2004'. (2) The animal health requirements from which food is produced shall be laid down by a regulation of the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry laying down the requirements of Council Directive 2002/99/EC of 16 December 2002 laying down the animal health rules governing the production, processing, distribution and placing on the market of products of animal origin for human consumption. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 8. Art. 8. The production, processing and/or distribution of food shall also be subject to industry standards and guidelines for good manufacturing, commercial and hygiene practices for food and to the introduction, application and maintenance of a permanent procedure or procedures based on the principles of the hazard analysis system and critical control points (NASRs) in accordance with art. 5 of Regulation (EC) No 852/2004 and Annexes II and III to Regulation (EC) No 853/2004. "Section III - Requirements for business operators'. Proposal by the MP Andrian Raykov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version for the name of Section III: "Requirements to business operators and persons working in establishments for the production, processing and/or distribution of food'. Under art. 9 has a proposal from the National Representative Georgi Stankov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 9. Art. 9. Business operators producing, processing and/or distribution food, hereinafter referred to as business operators, shall be obliged to have information on food, animals and materials used in the production, processing and/or distribution of food under their control. Under art. 10 has a proposal of the MP Georgi Stankov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes art. 10 to be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u9	Statements, coworkers? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the editorials of art. Art. 6, Art. Art. 7, Art. 8 of the Commission Report; the wording of the name of Section III of the Commission Report; the wording of art. 9 on the Commission report; and the rejection of art. 10. They voted 133 MPs: 132, none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u10	Under art. 11 has a proposal of the MP Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Georgi Stankov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 11, which becomes Art. 11. 10: Art. 10. Business operators except primary production and pharmacies and drugstores under art. 30, para. 1, implement, implement and maintain a permanent procedure or procedures in accordance with art. 5 of Regulation (EC) No 852/2004 and Annexes II and III to Regulation (EC) No 853/2004 and technological documentation for food producing and/or national, established or sectoral standards. Under art. 12 has a proposal of the MP Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission shall in principle support the proposal, which shall be reflected in its systematic place in art. 11. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes art. 12 to be rejected. Under art. 13 has a proposal of the MP Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 13, which becomes Art. 11: Art. 11. In case of food disease, business operators shall provide the necessary assistance to the relevant regional health inspection and regional food safety directorate to limit and eradicate the disease. Under art. 14 there is a proposal of the MP Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Georgi Stankov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes art. 14 to be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u11	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. Art. 11, which becomes Art. 11. Article 10; rejection of art. Article 12; version of Art. Art. 13, which becomes Art. 11 on the Commission report; and the rejection of art. 14. Vote 139 MPs: 138, against none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u12	Under art. 15 has a proposal of the MP Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MP Andrian Raykov and a group of MPs. The Commission shall in principle support the proposal, which shall be reflected in its systematic place in art. 26, 31 and 44. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes art. 15 to be rejected. The Commission proposes to create a new art. 12: Art. 12. A person working at a facility for the production, processing and/or distribution of food shall be subject to preliminary and periodic medical examinations under the regulation under art. 34, para. 3 of the Health Act. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 16 which becomes Art. 13: Art. 13. (1) At a food-producing establishment shall work at least one person employed under a contract of employment having: 1. higher or secondary special education in the field of food industry, or 2. professional qualification in the field of food industry in accordance with the requirements of the Law on Vocational Education and Training, or 3. higher education in specialty from the professional field of veterinary medicine. 4. Higher education in the professional field of vocational education, where the site is intended for the production of food supplements, food intended for use in intensive muscle load and food referred to in Section II of Chapter Three. (2) Rent of a person under a contract of employment shall not be required when the establishment is managed by a business operator which meets at least one of the requirements of para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. "Section IV - Packaging, labelling, presentation and advertising of food." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section IV. Under art. 17 has a proposal of the MP Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission shall in principle support the proposal, which shall be reflected in its systematic place in art. 49, para. 1. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 17, which becomes art. 14: Art. 14. (1) Only materials and articles, including active and intelligent materials and articles intended to come into contact with food, shall be used for the packaging of foodstuffs which comply with the requirements of Regulation (EC) No (2) The materials and articles intended for contact with food shall be accompanied by a declaration of compliance with the regulatory requirements. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 18, which becomes Art. 15: Art. 15. The Minister of Health, in agreement with the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, shall issue regulations which shall: 1. introduce the following directives of the European Union: (a) Commission Directive 2007/42/EC of 29 June 2007 on materials and articles made of regenerated cellulose film intended to come into contact with food (OB, L 172/71 of 30 June 2007)) (b) Council Directive 84/500/EEC of 15 October 1984 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to ceramic articles intended to come into contact with food; (c) Commission Directive 93/11/EEC of 15 March 1993 concerning the release of N-nitrosamines and N-nitrosamins from pacifiers and spoons produced from a dexamethasone or rubber; 2. define national measures in respect of materials and objects for which there are no specific measures adopted at European Union level pursuant to art. 5 of Regulation (EC) No is amended as follows: The Commission proposes to create a new art. 16: Art. 16. (1) The Minister of Health shall be a national competent authority for the purposes of art. 9 of Regulation (EU) No is amended as follows: 5 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 282/2008 of 27 March 2008 on recycled plastic materials and articles intended to come into contact with food and amending Regulation (EC) No 2023/2006 (OJ L 86/9 of 28 March 2008.), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EC) No 28 (2) The Ministry of Health shall inform the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry in writing of applications submitted by business operators under art. 9 of Regulation (EU) No is amended as follows: 5 of Regulation (EC) No 282/2008
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u13	Colleagues, speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the rejection of art. 15 and the creation of a new art. Article 12; version of Art. 16 which becomes Art. 13 of the Commission Report; the text of the importer on the name of Section IV; the version of art. 17, which becomes art. 14 according to the Commission Report; the version of art. 18, which becomes Art. 15 on the Commission Report and the creation of a new art. 16. Vote 120 MPs: for 119, against none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u14	Under art. 19 has a proposal from the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Georgi Stankov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 19 which becomes Art. 17: Art. 17. (1) A business operator that produces, processes and/or distributes food shall be obliged to offer foods labelled in accordance with the requirements of Regulation (EU) No 1169/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2011 on the provision of food information to consumers, amending Regulations (EC) No 1924/2006 and (EC) No are required to offer foods labelled in accordance with the requirements of Regulation (EU) No 1169/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Commission Directive 87/250/EEC, Council Directive 90/496/EEC, Commission Directive 1999/10/EC, Directive 2000/13/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council, Commission Directives 2002/67/EC and 2008/5/EC and Commission Regulation (EC) No 608/2004 (OJ L 304/18 of 22 November 2011.), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) No (2) The title of "Acquired in Bulgaria" is placed on primary products that are obtained in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. (3) The product from Bulgaria shall be placed on foods where: 1. the main ingredient used for their production is harvested in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, and 2. all stages of the production process are carried out in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. (4) The designation under para. 3 may be accompanied by a map or other symbol containing information that food is produced on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. The Commission proposes to create new art. 18 and 19: Art. 18. In accordance with art. 15 paragraphs 1 and 2 of Regulation (EU) No 1169/2011 shall be made available on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, including the label, in Bulgarian. Art. 19. The requirements for the provision of food information to consumers shall be laid down by a regulation of the Council of Ministers, which shall: 1. introduce the requirements of Directive 2011/91/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 2011 on indications or markings identifying the lot to which a food belongs (OJ L 334/1 of 16 December 2011).) 2. define national measures for the provision of food information to consumers under art. Commission Regulation (EU) No 452/2014 of 11 December 2013 laying down detailed rules for the application of Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of Under art. 20 has a proposal from the MP Georgi Stankov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 20: Art. 20. The Minister of Health shall be a national competent authority for the purposes of art. Art. 1 (4) Article 15 18 (2) of Regulation (EC) No 1924/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 December 2006 on nutrition and health claims made on foods, hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EC) No 1924/2006' and of Commission Regulation (EU) No 907/2013 of 20 September 2013 laying down rules on applications for generic indications (names) (OJ L 251/7 of 21 September 2013.) (see Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009). Under art. 21 has a proposal from the MP Georgi Stankov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 21: Art. 21. The Minister of Health shall be a national competent authority for the purposes of art. 8 (2) of Regulation (EC) No are to be incorporated into the food referred to as Regulation (EC) No are to be incorporated into the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 December 2006 concerning the addition of vitamins, minerals and certain other substances to foods, hereinafter referred to as Regulation (EC) No are to be incorporated into the European Parliament and of the Council and Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 307/2012 of 11 April 2012 laying down rules for the implementation of Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No are to be applied to the European Parliament and of the Council on the introduction of vitamins, minerals and certain other substances in food (OJ L 102/2 of 12 April 2012.) (see Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009). Under art. 22 has a proposal from the MP Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 22: Art. 22. A business operator may not, by means of advertisements or other forms of commercial communications in which children are involved as contractors, advertise: 1. genetically modified foods and foods for which there are regulatory restrictions for use by children; 2. foods containing nutrients and substances with nutritional or physiological effects that do not meet the requirements for a healthy diet according to the regulations.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u15	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 19 which becomes Art. 17 under the Commission Report, the newly established Articles 18 and 19, the version of art. 20 on the Commission Report; the version of art. Art. 21 and art. 22 on the Commission report. They voted 109 MPs: 109, no opposition and no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u16	"Chapter 2". Requirements for the production, processing and distribution of food. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes the following version for the name of Chapter Two: "Requirements in the production, processing and/or distribution of food'. "Department I " Registration and approval of establishments for the production, processing and distribution of food ". The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for the name of Section I: "Registration and approval in the production, processing and/or distribution of food'. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 23: Art. 23. (1) The production, processing and/or distribution of food shall be carried out after registration or approval under the law. (2) The competent authority for registration for the purposes of Regulation (EC) No 852/2004 shall be the Director of: 1. the Regional Food Safety Directorate, at the location of the establishment for the production, processing and/or distribution of food; 2. Regional health inspection - at the location of the site for the production of bottled natural mineral, spring and table water. (3) The competent authority for approval for the purposes of Regulation (EC) No 853/2004 shall be the Director of the Regional Food Safety Directorate at the location of the establishment for the production, processing and/or distribution of foodstuffs. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 24: Art. 24. (1) The Bulgarian Food Safety Agency shall maintain on its website a public national register of business operators, establishments for the production, processing and/or distribution of food and food supplements and foodstuffs intended for use in intensive muscle load. (2) The Ministry of Health shall maintain on its website public registers of: 1. business operators and sites for the production of bottled natural mineral, spring and table water; 2. the foods placed on the market under art. 76, para. 1; 3. persons engaged in the processing of food with Under art. 25 has a proposal of the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 25: Art. 25. (1) The heads of specialized structures of the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Justice shall carry out registration or approval under Regulation (EC) No 852/2004 and Regulation (EC) No 853/2004 of the establishments for the production, processing and/or distribution of foodstuffs located at sites with special crossing arrangements. (2) The order for registration, approval and control of the objects under para. 1 shall be determined by regulations of the respective ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u17	Colleagues, speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the wording of the name of Chapter Two, the wording of the name of Section 1 of the Report of the Commission, the version of art. Art. 23, art. Art. 24, Art. 25 on the committee report. They voted 105 MPs: for 105, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u18	Under art. 26 there is a proposal of the MP Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 26: Art. 26. (1) For the registration of an establishment for the production, processing and/or distribution of foodstuffs or for the production of bottled natural mineral, spring and table waters under Regulation (EC) No 852/2004, the business operator shall submit to the relevant competent authority under art. 23, para. 2, p. 1 or 2: 1. an application on a model approved by the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, respectively by the Minister of Health; 2. a copy of: (a) Certificate of putting into service under art. 177, para. 3 of the Law on the Construction of the Area..... where applicable; (b) Building permit granted under art. 41, para. 1 of the Law on Construction in the Area............................................................................................................................................................... (c) permission to place under art. 56, para. 2 of the Law on the Construction of the (d) a document certifying that the site is not to be put into service. (d) where applicable; 3. a document of ownership, rent or use of the site. (2) The application shall contain at least: 1. name and address, respectively name, registered office and address of management of the business operator and single identification code under the Commercial Register Act and the register of non-profit legal entities or equivalent registration document in another Member State of the European Union, or other State of the European Economic Area Agreement; 2. type and address of the object; 3. number and date of entry into force of authorisation for use under art. 177, para. 2 of the Law on the Construction of the Area.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 4. types of activities carried out at the site and related activities 5. food groups, including food sub-groups to be produced, processed and/or distributyrated at the site; 6. number of mobile, temporary, movable or exposed objects, including machines used for food processing and marketing purposes, where applicable, as well as address of the sites concerned; 7. type of water supply in the site and method of disposal of waste water; 8. means of communication to be used in distance trading; 9. production capacity data for food production and processing sites, or warehouse capacity data for outlets; 10. number, type and registration number of vehicles, own and/or employed, to be used for the transport of foodstuffs; 11. date of start of the activity which cannot be earlier than 14 days from the date of submission of the application; 12. declare that when producing food in the site will be put in, respectively, will not be put into use, genetically modified foods, ingredients and additives produced from genetically modified organisms (GMOs), including components of an ingredient and substances present in the final product, albeit in modified form; 13. declare that organic food will be offered using a derogation within the meaning of art. 28 (2) of Council Regulation (EC) No 834/2007 of 28 June 2007 on organic production and labelling of organic products and repealing Regulation (EEC) No 2092/91 (OB, L 189/1 of 20 July 2007) Where applicable, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation, in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council, laying down detailed rules for the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council, laying down detailed rules for the implementation of Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council, laying down detailed rules for the implementation of Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council, laying down detailed rules for the implementation of Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council and Regulation (EC) No 14. declaring that the requirements of Regulation (EC) No 852/2004 are fulfilled; 15. declare that there is a design of a food safety management system, comparable to the type and size of production, which includes good practices for the production, processing and/or distribution of food, or permanent procedure or procedures in accordance with art. 10, including technological documentation or national, established or branch manuals and standards for food groups to be produced, processed and/or distributyrated at the site; only a traceability plan is required for business operators carrying out only food transport or trade in food from rented storage areas and for trade in food at a distance. (3) Declaration under para. 2, p. 12 is not required by a business operator engaged in trade also in catering establishments. (4) When carrying out only the transport of food: Article 1 50, para. 1 and 2 the business operator shall carry out the registration of vehicles in accordance with art. 55; 2. outside the cases referred to in point 2. 1, the business operator shall submit the application under para. 1 in which the information under para. 2, p. 1, 5, 10, 11, 14 and 15, shall apply a copy of the registration coupon of the vehicle and a document certifying the right of use, where applicable. The application shall be submitted to the Director of the Regional Food Safety Directorate at the headquarters of the business operator. (5) When carrying out only food trading activities from rented storage areas in establishments registered or approved under this law, in the application under para. 1 shall be provided with the information referred to in para. 2, p. 1, 5, 10, 11 and 15, the veterinary approval number of the site and a copy of the rental contract shall apply. The application shall be submitted to the Director of the Regional Food Safety Directorate at the location of the site. (6) The application shall be verified within 5 working days of its submission. Where irregularities are detected, the competent authority shall inform the applicant and set a time limit for their removal, which shall not be less than 10 working days and longer than 6 months, such as the period under para. 2, p. 11 stops running. (7) Within 5 working days of the submission of the application, the competent authority shall: 1. issue an order for full or partial refusal of registration in the event of irregularness within the period under para. 6; 2. enter in the relevant register under art. 24 establishments for the production, processing and/or distribution of food for the requested activities and the registration shall be without time limit. (8) The order under para. 7, p. 1 is reported and can be appealed under the Administrative Procedure Code. The application of the order shall not stop its execution. (9) Within 30 days of the entry under para. 7, p. For food production and processing establishments and within 60 days for food distribution establishments, a committee designated by the competent authority shall carry out an on-the-spot verification of compliance of the establishment with the regulatory requirements. (10) Paragraph 9 shall not apply to business operators operating under para. 4 and/or 5. (11) When finding non-compliance with the regulatory requirements in the verification under para. 9, depending on the severity of the infringements, the competent authority shall issue: 1. a prescription and a deadline for compliance which may not be shorter than 10 working days and longer than three months from the date of service of the prescription; or 2. an order to stop the activity of the site in the event of immediate and major danger to human or animal health. (12) The business operator shall notify the competent authority in writing of the removal of the non-compliance. Within three working days of the completion of the check to comply with the prescription under para. 11, p. 1 or from the notification, the Committee under para. 9 provide the competent authority with a consolidated report on the extent of compliance of the site with the regulatory requirements containing an opinion on: 1. continuing or stopping activity at the site; 2. renewal of the activity at the site; 3. deletion of the registration of the object. (13) Within 5 days of receipt of the minutes under para. 12 The competent authority shall issue an order to suspend the activity, to resume the activity or to delete the registration of the establishment. The order shall be notified and may be appealed under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. The application of the order shall not stop its execution. (14) Within three working days of the occurrence of a change in the recorded circumstances under art. 28, p. 1, 4 and 6, the business operator shall notify the competent authority by providing information or applying documents certifying the change. (15) Within 7 days of notification under para. 14, the competent authority shall record the change in the relevant register under art. 24. (16) When changing the address of the site and the type of activity, as well as in the case of an institution with an interruption of activity in the site, a new registration shall be made in accordance with para. 1... 15. (17) In the case of universal administration without interruption and change in the activity of the establishment, declared by both the authority and the successor, changes shall be made to the circumstances entered under para. 14 and 15. Under art. 27 has a proposal from the MP Andrian Raykov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 27: Art. 27. (1) The competent authority under art. 23, para. 2, p. 1 or 2 issue an order to delete the registration: 1. at the request of the business operator; 2. upon deletion of the business operator from the trade register; 3. in the event of a change of the activity of the object in an activity outside the scope of the law; 4. in the case of gross or systematic infringements of the law and/or its implementing regulations; 5. in the event of systematic obstruction of the activities of the control bodies; 6. in the event of failure to comply with a forced administrative measure imposed under the Agrofood Chain Management Act; 7. when the business operator has not resumed the activity of the site on the day following the expiry of the notification referred to in art. 29 period of suspension; 8. in the event of a suspension found by a control body for more than one month of the activity of the establishment as from the day of establishment, without notification under art. 29. (2) The order under para. 1 is reported and can be appealed under the Administrative Procedure Code. The appeal of the order issued on the grounds of para. 1, t. Its implementation does not stop... 8...................................................................................................... Under art. 28 has a proposal from the MP Andrian Raykov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 28: Art. 28. The competent authority under art. 23, para. 2, p. 1 or 2 shall enter into the register referred to in Article 2. 24, para. 1 or 2 the following information about the objects: 1. name or name of the business operator operating under art. 26, para. 1, 4 and 5, an address of management and a single identification code under the Commercial Register Act and the register of non-profit legal entities or equivalent data of the business operator registered in another Member State of the European Union or another State of the Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area; 2. type and address of the object; 3. type of activity in the object or activity under art. 26, para. 4 and 5; 4. the information under art. 26, para. 2, p. 5, 6, 10, 12 and 13; 5. the information under art. 69, para. 1 and 2 where applicable; 6. the information under art. 61, para. 1, t. 2 - where applicable; 7. date of start of activity; 8. date and period of suspension and date of renewal of the activity. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 29: Art. 29. (1) Within 7 days of the suspension of the activity at an establishment registered in accordance with the order of art. 26, the business operator shall notify to the competent authority under art. 23, para. 2, p. 1 or 2 in which the braking period is indicated. (2) In the event of a change of the period of suspension or of a renewal of the activity before the expiry of the suspension period, the business operator shall submit a new notification. The competent authority of para. 1 enter changes in the register under art. 24, para. 1 or 2 within three working days of the call. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 30: Art. 30. (1) Pharmacies and drugstores carrying out retail food supplements, dietary foods for special medical purposes, foods for infants and young children shall be subject to control under this law. (2) The Drug Executive Agency, respectively regional health inspections, shall notify every month, up to the 10th day, the Regional Food Safety Directorate at the location of the pharmacy and drugstore concerned for the pharmacies and drugstores registered in the previous month, where retail food supplements, dietary foods for special medical purposes, foods for infants and young children are carried out. (3) On the basis of the notification under para. 2 pharmacies and drugstores under para. 1 shall be entered in the register of art. 24, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u19	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 26 according to the Commission Report; the version of art. 27 on the Commission Report; the version of art. 28 on the Commission Report and the version of art. Article 29 30 on the Commission report. Vote 97 MPs: 95, none, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u20	Under art. 31 has a proposal of the National Representative Prof. Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 31: Art. 31. (1) For the approval of an establishment for the production, processing and/or distribution of foodstuffs under Regulation (EC) No 853/2004, the business operator shall submit to the competent authority under art. 23, para. 3: 1. an application on a model approved by the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency; 2. a copy of: (a) Certificate of putting into service under art. 177, para. 3 of the Law on Construction in the Area - where applicable; (b) Building permit granted under art. 41, para. 1 of the Law on Construction in the Area............................................................................................................................................................... (c) permission to place under art. 56, para. 2 of the Law on the Construction of the (d) a document certifying that the object is not to be put into service, where applicable; 3. Documents under art. 55, para. 1 - in the cases referred to in art. 50, para. 1; 4. Document of ownership, rent or use of the site. (2) The application shall contain at least: 1. name and address, respectively name, registered office and address of management of the business operator and unique identification code under the Commercial Register Act and the register of non-profit legal entities or equivalent registration document in another Member State of the European Union, or other country of the Agreement on the European Economic Area; 2. type and address of the object; 3. number and date of entry into force of authorisation for use under art. 177, para. 2 of the Law on the Construction of the Area.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 4. types of activities carried out at the site and related activities 5. food groups, including food sub-groups to be produced, processed and/or distributyrated at the site; 6. type of water supply in the site and method of disposal of waste water; 7. data on production capacity for food production and processing sites; 8. means of communication that will be used in the trade of food at a distance; 9. number, type and registration number of vehicles, own or hired, which will be used for the transport of food in the cases referred to in art. 50, para. 1; 10. a declaration that when producing food in the site will be put into use, respectively will not be put into use, genetically modified foods, ingredients and additives produced from genetically modified organisms (GMOs), including components of an ingredient and substances present in the final product, albeit in modified form; a declaration is not required by a business operator engaged in trade, as well as by public catering establishments; 11. declare that there is a design of a food safety management system comparable to the type and size of the production, which includes good practices for the production, processing and/or distribution of food or permanent procedure or procedures in accordance with art. 10, including technological documentation or national, established or branch manuals and standards for food groups to be produced, processed and/or distributyrated at the site; 12. declare that organic food will be offered using a derogation within the meaning of art. 28 (2) of Council Regulation (EC) No 834/2007 of 28 June 2007 on organic production and labelling of organic products and repealing Regulation (EEC) No 2092/91 (OB, L 189/1 of 20 July 2007) If applicable, please refer to the following information: (3) The application shall be verified within 5 working days of its submission. Where irregularities are detected, the competent authority shall notify the applicant and set a time limit for their removal which shall not be less than 10 working days and longer than 6 months. (4) The competent authority shall issue an order for refusal of approval in the event of non-compliance within the specified time limit. The order shall be notified and may be appealed under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. (5) Within 30 days of the submission of the application or the removal of irregularities within the specified time limit, the competent authority shall designate a commission which shall carry out an on-the-spot verification of compliance of the establishment with the regulatory requirements. (6) When finding non-compliance with the regulatory requirements, the Committee under para. 5 issue a prescription and set a time limit for bringing the object into conformity which may not be less than 10 working days. (7) Within three working days of carrying out a check to comply with the prescription under para. 6 Committee on para. 5 provide the competent authority with a consolidated report on the extent of compliance of the site with the regulatory requirements containing an opinion on: 1. approval of the object, or 2. conditional approval where the object meets only the requirements for infrastructure and equipment, or 3. Refusal of approval. (8) Within 5 days of receipt of the minutes under para. 7, the competent authority: 1. enter the object in the register under Art. 1. 24, para. 1 and issue an approval certificate containing the veterinary approval number of the establishment, with the effect of the approval being unlimited, or 2. enter the object in the register under art. 24, para. 1 and issue a certificate of conditional approval containing the veterinary approval number of the establishment with a period of three months, or 3. issue an order for refusal of approval. (9) The order under para. 8, p. 3 is reported and can be appealed under the Administrative Procedure Code. (10) When bringing the establishment into compliance with the regulatory requirements for the activity concerned, but not later than 14 days before the expiry of the conditional approval certificate, the business operator shall notify the competent authority of the removal of the non-compliances. (11) Within 5 days of receipt of the notification under para. 10, the committee of para. 5 performs on-site verification of compliance of the site with the regulatory requirements. (12) Within three working days of carrying out the verification under para. 11 Committees under para. 5 provide the competent authority with a consolidated report on the extent of compliance of the site with the regulatory requirements containing an opinion on: 1. approval of the object, 2. extension of the conditional approval under para. 8, p. 2 for not more than three months, or 3. refusal to extend the conditional approval under para. 8, p. 2. (13) Within 5 days of receipt of the minutes under para. 12, the competent authority shall issue: 1. certificate of extension of the conditional approval of the site; 2. certificate of approval of the site; 3. Order of refusal of approval of the object. (14) The order under para. 13, p. 3 is reported and can be appealed under the Administrative Procedure Code. (15) Within 10 days of the expiry of the certificate under para. 13, p. 1 Committee under para. carry out a follow-up check and provide the competent authority with a consolidated report of compliance of the site with the regulatory requirements containing an opinion on: 1. approval of the object; 2. refusal of approval of the object. (16) Within 10 days of receipt of the minutes under para. 15, the competent authority shall issue: 1. Order of refusal to extend the conditional approval of the site; 2. Certificate of approval of the object. (17) The commandment under para. 16, p. 1 is reported and can be appealed under the Administrative Procedure Code. (18) In the event of a change of recorded circumstances under art. 33, p. 2, 5, 6 and 7, the business operator shall immediately notify the competent authority by providing information or applying documents certifying the change. (19) Within 7 days of notification under para. 18 The competent authority shall record the change in the register under art. 24, para. 1 and issue a new certificate of approval of the object. (20) A new approval under para. 1 "Seventeen. " (21) In the case of universal administration without interruption and change in the activity of the establishment declared by both the landlord and successor, the change shall be made in accordance with para. 18 and 19.................................................................................................. Under art. 32 there is a proposal of the MP Andrian Raykov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 32: Art. (1) The competent authority referred to in Article 32 (1) 23, para. 3 issue an order for deletion of the entry and nullify the approval certificate: 1. at the request of the business operator; 2. upon deletion of the business operator from the trade register; 3. in the event of a change of the activity of the object in an activity outside the scope of the law; 4. in the case of gross or systematic infringements of the law and/or its implementing regulations; 5. in the event of systematic obstruction of the activities of the control bodies; 6. in the event of failure to comply with a forced administrative measure imposed under the Agrofood Chain Management Act; 7. where the business operator has not resumed the activity of the establishment on the day following the expiry of the suspension period specified in the notification under art. 34; 8. in the event of a suspension found by a control body for more than one month of the activity of the establishment as from the day of establishment, without notification under art. 34. (2) The order under para. 1 is reported and can be appealed under the Administrative Procedure Code. The appeal of the order issued on the grounds of para. 1, t. 3 "8" does not stop its execution. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 33: Art. 33. The competent authority under art. 23, para. 3 shall enter into the register under art. 24, para. 1 the following information about the objects under art. 31: 1. number and date of the certificate of approval of the site; 2. the name or name of the business operator, the address of the management, a single identification code under the Commercial Register Act and the register of non-profit legal entities or equivalent data of a business operator registered in another Member State of the European Union or another Member State of the European Economic Area Agreement; 3. type and address of the object; 4. type of activity in the site; 5. groups of foods that are produced, processed and/or distributyrated at the site, including food subgroups; 6. the information under art. 31, para. 2, p. 9; 7. the information under art. 61, para. 1, t. 2 - where applicable; 8. veterinary approval number of the site; 9. date of start of activity at the site; 10. date and period of suspension and date of renewal of the activity. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 34: Art. 34. (1) Within 7 days of the suspension of the activity at an establishment approved in accordance with art. 31, the business operator shall notify to the competent authority under Article 31. 23, para. 3 in which the braking period is indicated. (2) A new notification shall be made in case of a change of the period of suspension or of the renewal of the business before the expiry of the suspension period. Changes shall be entered in the register under art. 24, para. 1 within three working days of the call.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u21	Statements, coworkers? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the texts of Articles 31, 32, 33 and 34. Vote 72 MPs: for 71, against none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u22	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 35: Art. 35. (1) The operator shall submit the application and documents under art. (1) For registration of a cogeneration establishment of bottled natural mineral, spring or table water and soft drinks, the business operator shall submit the application and documents under art. 26 to the Director of the Regional Food Safety Directorate at the location of the site, which shall send a copy of the relevant regional health inspection no later than 24 hours after receipt. (2) The application shall be verified within 5 days of its submission. Where irregularities are identified, the Director of the Regional Food Safety Directorate shall inform the applicant and set a time limit for their removal, which shall not be less than 10 working days. (3) Within 30 days of the submission of the application or the removal of irregularities within the specified time limit, the Director of the Regional Food Safety Directorate shall designate a joint committee of representatives of the Regional Food Safety Directorate and the regional health inspection concerned, which shall carry out an on-the-spot inspection within 5 working days. When finding non-compliance with the regulatory requirements, the Director of the Regional Food Safety Directorate shall issue a prescription and set a time limit for compliance which may not be shorter than 10 working days and longer than 6 months from the date of delivery of the prescription. (4) Within three working days of carrying out the inspection or after bringing the object to compliance with the prescription under para. 3 The Commission shall submit to the Director of the Regional Food Safety Directorate a report on the extent of compliance of the establishment with the regulatory requirements containing an opinion on: 1. entry of the object in the register under art. 24, para. 1 for the requested activities; 2. refusal of registration for part or for all requested activities. (5) Within 5 days of the submission of the minutes under para. The Director of the Regional Food Safety Directorate shall: 1. enter the object in the register under Art. 1. 24, para. 1 for the requested activities, the effect of the registration shall be unlimited; 2. issue an order for refusal of registration for part or for all requested activities. (6) The order under para. 5, t. 2 is reported and can be appealed under the Administrative Procedure Code. The application of the order shall not stop its execution. (7) The Director of the Regional Food Safety Directorate who has made the registration shall inform the Director of the Regional Health Inspection within three days, which shall enter the establishment in the register of art. 24, para. 2. (8) At the beginning of production of non-alcoholic beverages in a registered establishment for the production of bottled natural mineral, spring or table water, or of the production of bottled natural mineral, spring or table water in a registered establishment for the production of non-alcoholic beverages, as well as in the event of a change of activity in the establishment, a new registration under para. 1... 7............................................................... The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 36: Art. 36. A business operator may not obtain a new registration or approval for activity under the law in cases of deletion of registration under art. 27, para. 1, t. 4, 5 and 6 or in the case of deletion of entry and revocation of a certificate of approval under art. 32, para. 1, t. 4, 5 and 6. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 37: Art. 37. (1) Direct delivery of small quantities of primary products under art. 1 (2) (b) of Regulation (EC) No 852/2004 and Article 1 (2) (c) of Regulation (EC) No 852/2004 1 (3) (c), (d) and (d) of Regulation (EC) No 853/2004 shall be carried out by a business operator who is a user, tenant or owner of a registered establishment for primary food production. (2) Delivery of food of animal origin from retail outlets to another retail outlet as side, local and limited activity under art. 1 (5) (b) (n) of Regulation (EC) No 853/2004 shall only be carried out by retail outlets where users, tenants or owners are farmers or farmers' associations. (3) The terms and procedure for making direct deliveries under para. 1 and 2 shall be determined by the relevant regulation referred to in Article 2. 6 and 7. Under art. 38 has a proposal of the MP Georgi Stankov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 38: Art. 38. (1) Direct supplies of small quantities of primary products under art. 37, para. 1 shall be carried out to an end-user or to local retail outlets which deliver direct deliveries to an end-user. Deliveries shall be carried out by a business operator entered in the register under art. 24, para. 1. (2) Deliveries under para. 1 shall be carried out in the administrative area of entry and in all administrative areas adjacent thereto. Under art. 39 has a proposal of the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Georgi Stankov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 39: Art. 39. (1) For entry in the register under art. 24, para. 1 business operator under art. 37, para. 1 submit to the Regional Food Safety Directorate at the location of the primary food production site an application on a sample approved by the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, which contains at least: 1. name and address, respectively name, registered office and address of management of the business operator and single identification code under the Commercial Register Act and the register of non-profit legal entities or equivalent registration document in another Member State of the European Union, or other State of the European Economic Area Agreement; 2. location, address and number of the primary food production site; 3. type and name of primary products. (2) For entry into the register under art. 24, para. 1 The hunting association shall submit to the respective Regional Food Safety Directorate at the location of the game handling point an application on a model approved by the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, which shall contain: 1. the name of the hunting association and the area of the hunting areas of the hunting groups belonging to it; 2. location and capacity of the game handling point; 3. responsible persons for the hygiene and maintenance of the game handling point, as well as rules for the organisation of the activity at the point; 4. the type of game from which the meat will be extracted. (3) To the application under para. 2 shall apply: 1. a list of the names of the hunters members of the association who have been trained in accordance with Chapter I of Section IV of Annex III to Regulation (EC) No 853/2004; 2. a decision to elect the Chairman and the Management of the Association; 3. a rental contract or a document for using the game handling point. (4) The Director of the respective Regional Food Safety Directorate shall enter business operators and hunting associations in the register under art. 24, para. 1: 1. within 7 days of the submission of the application.. in the case of direct deliveries of primary products under art. 1 (2) (b) of Regulation (EC) No 852/2004 and Article 1 (2) (c) of Regulation (EC) No 852/2004 point (c) of paragraph 3 of Regulation (EC) No 853/2004, with the exception of raw milk; 2. within 10 days of the submission of the application and after an on-the-spot check, when direct deliveries of raw milk and products under art. 1 (3) (d) and (d) of Regulation (EC) No 853/2004. (5) In the register referred to in art. 24, para. 1 enter the data under para. 1 and in the cases under para. 2 The name of the hunting association and the hunting areas of the hunting groups, members of it and the data under para. 2, p. 2 and 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u23	Can we stop here until art. 39. We've had enough lyrics. Colleagues, do you have any comments? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I will put to the vote the amendments that the Commission proposes for the texts of art. 35, 36, 37, 38 and 39. They voted 73 MPs: for 73, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u24	Under art. 40 has a proposal of the National Representative Georgi Stankov and a group of MPs: The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 40: Art. 40. (1) Processing and/or processing of foodstuffs of animal origin under art. 37, para. 2 shall be carried out at local retail outlets approved in accordance with art. 31. (2) Users, tenants or owners of the objects under para. 1 are business operators under art. 37, para. 1 or their associations. (3) The products under para. 1 are also delivered to other retail outlets as side, local and limited activity. (4) In the application for approval of objects under para. 1 except for the data referred to in Article 1. 31, para. 2 indicate the type, address and registration number of the establishment from which the primary products originate. Under art. 41 has a proposal of the National Representative Georgi Stankov and a group of MPs: The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 41: Art. 41. A retailer under art. 40 shall be entered by the competent authority in the register referred to in Article 40. 24, para. 1 in a separate group, including the type of food. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 42: Art. 42. In cases and in the order of art. 32 The competent authority shall issue an order to delete the approval of a local establishment under art. 40, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u25	Are there any speeches? We are voting on the proposed amendments by the Commission to art. 40, 41 and 42. Vote 74 MPs: for 74, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u26	"Section II - Registration of premises for manufacturing and wholesale trade and requirements for retail trade in materials and articles intended for contact with food'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section II. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 43. Under art. 44 has a proposal of the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 44: Art. 44. (1) For registration of an establishment for production and wholesale of materials and articles intended for contact with food, the business operator shall submit to the competent authority under art. 43, para. 2 at the location of the site: 1. an application on a model approved by the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency; 2. a copy of: (a) Certificate of putting into service under art. 177, para. 3 of the Law on the Construction of the Area..... where applicable; (b) Building permit granted under art. 41, para. 1 of the Law on Construction in the Area............................................................................................................................................................... (c) permission to place under art. 56, para. 2 of the Law on Construction of the (d) a document certifying that the object is not to be put into service (2) The application shall contain at least: 1. name and address, respectively name, registered office and address of management of the business operator and single identification code under the Commercial Register Act and the register of non-profit legal entities or equivalent registration document in another Member State of the European Union, or in another Member State of the European Economic Area Agreement; 2. type and address of the object; 3. number and date of entry into force of authorisation for use under art. 177, para. 2 of the Law on the Construction of the Area.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 4. type of activity carried out at the establishment for the production of materials and articles intended for contact with food; 5. date of start of the activity which cannot be earlier than 14 days from the date of submission of the application; 6. declaring that the requirements of Regulation (EC) No are met, the Bulgarian legislation and the law of the European Union, which lays down the specific requirements for certain groups of materials and articles intended to come into contact with food; 7. declare that good manufacturing practices under Commission Regulation (EC) No 2023/2006 of 22 December 2006 on good manufacturing practice for materials and articles intended for contact with food are available to the competent authority for inspection at the establishment. (3) The application shall be verified within 5 working days of its submission. Where irregularities are detected, the competent authority shall inform the applicant and set a time limit for their removal, which shall not be less than 10 working days and longer than 6 months, such as the period under para. 2, p. Five stops running. (4) Within 5 working days of the submission of the application, the competent authority shall: 1. issue an order for full or partial refusal of registration. 3, or 2. enter the object in the register under art. 24, para. 1 for the requested activities and the entry is unlimited. (5) The order under para. 4 t. 1 is reported and can be appealed under the Administrative Procedure Code. The appeal of the order does not stop its execution. (6) Within 30 days of the entry under para. 4 t. 2 a committee designated by the competent authority shall carry out an on-the-spot verification of compliance of the establishment with the regulatory requirements. When finding non-compliance, depending on the severity of the infringements, the competent authority shall issue: 1. a prescription and a deadline for compliance which may not be shorter than 10 working days and longer than three months from the date of service of the prescription; or 2. an order to stop the activity of the site in the event of immediate and major danger to the health of the people. (7) The business operator shall notify the competent authority in writing of the removal of the non-compliance. Within three working days of the completion of the check to comply with the prescription under para. 6, p. 1 or from the notification of the Committee under para. 6 provide the competent authority with a consolidated report on the extent of compliance of the site with the regulatory requirements containing an opinion on: 1. one-time extension of the term under para. 6, p. 1 but not more than 3 months; 2. renewal of the activity at the site; 3. continuation or cessation of activity at the site; 4. deletion of the registration of the object. (8) Within 5 days of receipt of the minutes under para. 7 The competent authority shall issue an order for: 1. suspension of activity in the site; 2. renewal of the activity at the site; 3. deletion of the registration of the object. (9) The orders under para. 6, p. 2 and para. 8, p. 3 shall be notified and may be appealed under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. Appeals of orders do not stop their execution. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 45: Art. 45. (1) Within three working days of a change in the circumstances of the register, the business operator shall notify the competent authority under art. 43, para. 2, providing information or documents certifying the change. (2) Within 7 days of notification under para. 1 The competent authority shall record the change in the register referred to in Article 1. 24, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u27	Thank you. Are there any speeches, colleagues? I will put the following texts to the vote: the text of the importer for the name of Section II; the text of the importer for art. 43; the version proposed by the Commission for the texts of Articles 44 and 45. Vote 68 MPs: for 68, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u28	Under art. 46 there is a proposal from the MP Andrian Raykov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 46: Art. 46. (1) The competent authority under art. 43, para. 2 issue an order to delete the registration of the object in the register under art. 24, para. 1: 1. at the request of the business operator; 2. upon deletion of the business operator from the trade register; 3. in the event of a change of the activity of the object in an activity outside the scope of the law; 4. in the case of gross or systematic violations of the law and/or the regulations governing its application; 5. in the event of systematic obstruction of the activities of the control bodies; 6. in the event of failure to comply with a forced administrative measure imposed under the Agrofood Chain Management Act; 7. when the business operator has not resumed the activity of the site on the day following the expiry of the notification referred to in art. 48 period of suspension; 8. in the event of a suspension found by a control body for more than one month of the activity of the establishment as from the day of establishment, without notification under art. 48. (2) The order under para. 1 is reported and can be appealed under the Administrative Procedure Code. The appeal of the order issued on the grounds of para. 1, t. Its implementation does not stop... 8...................................................................................................... The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 47: Art. 47. The Regional Food Safety Directorates shall enter in the register referred to in Article 1. 24, para. 1 the following information about the objects under art. 44, para. 1: 1. name and address, respective name, seat and address of Business operator management and unique identification code The Commercial Register Act and the Register of Legal Persons with non-profit or equivalent data of the business operator, registered in another Member State of the European Union or other State of the European Economic Area Agreement; 2. type and address of the object; 3. type of activity in the site; 4. date of start of activity at the site; 5. date and period of suspension and date of renewal of the activity. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 48: Art. 48. (1) Within 7 days of the suspension of the activity at an establishment registered under art. 44 The business operator shall notify to the competent authority referred to in Article 44. 43, para. 2 in which the braking period is indicated. (2) In the event of a change of the period of suspension or of a renewal of the activity before the expiry of the suspension period, the business operator shall submit a new notification. The competent authority shall record the changes in the register under art. 24, para. 1 within three working days of the call. Under art. 49 has a proposal from the MP Georgi Stankov and a group of MPs. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 49: Art. 49. (1) Business operators carrying out production, wholesale or retail of materials and articles intended to come into contact with food shall comply with the requirements of Regulation (EC) No are required to comply with the laws and regulations governing its application. (2) In accordance with art. The information on materials and articles intended for contact with food offered in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria shall be provided in Bulgarian. (3) In the case of wholesale or retail trade, materials and articles intended to come into contact with food shall be stored and offered separately from other non-food goods.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u29	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the texts of Articles 46, 47, 48 and 49. Vote 77 MPs: for 77, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u30	"Section III - Transport of food." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section III. Under art. 50 has a proposal of the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 50: Art. 50. (1) A business operator may transport food within the scope of Annex III to Regulation (EC) No 853/2004 only by means of vehicles registered by the relevant competent authority designated and entered in the register under art. 24, para. 1. (2) The requirements of para. 1 shall also apply to vehicles carrying out the transport of flour, bread, pastry and confectionery. (3) The requirements of para. 1 and 2 shall not apply to a business operator registered by a competent authority of another Member State of the European Union. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 51. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 52: Art. 52. Vehicles used for the transport of foodstuffs other than those under art. 50, para. 1 and 2: 1. shall be announced by the business operator in the procedure for registration of an object under Art. 1. 26; 2. shall not be subject to registration under art. 55. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 53: Art. 53. Competent authority for the registration of vehicles used for the transport of foodstuffs under art. 50, para. 1 and 2 is the Director of the Regional Food Safety Directorate at the headquarters of the business operator.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u31	Let's stop here, thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put the following texts to the vote: the text of the importer for the name of Section III; the version proposed by the Commission for the texts of Articles 50, 52 and 53; and the text of the importer for art. 51. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u32	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 54: Art. 54. (1) Registration of a vehicle may be carried out in the procedure under art. 26, 31 or 55. (2) In case of simultaneous application of registration or approval of an establishment and registration of a vehicle, the business operator shall explicitly indicate this circumstance in the application. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 55: Art. 55. (1) For registration of a vehicle with which food is transported under art. 50, para. 1 and 2, the business operator shall submit to the competent authority referred to in Article 2. 53 application on a model approved by the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. The application shall be accompanied by copies of: 1. the registration coupon of the vehicle; 2. the document certifying the right of use of the vehicle, where applicable. (2) The application shall contain at least: 1. name and address, respectively name of the owner or user of the vehicle, registered office, management address and single identification code under the Commercial Register Act and the register of non-profit legal entities or equivalent registration document in another Member State of the European Union, or other State of the Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area; 2. make, model and type of vehicle as well as volume (for tanks and containers) and load capacity (for other vehicles); 3. registration number of the vehicle; 4. types of food to be transported; 5. license number for carrying out cargoes on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria or a license to carry out international cargo transport pursuant to art. 6, para. 1 of the Law on Road Transport, where applicable. (3) The application shall be verified within 7 working days of its submission. Where irregularities are detected, the competent authority shall notify the applicant and set a time limit for their removal which shall not be less than 10 working days and longer than 6 months. (4) The competent authority shall issue an order for refusal of registration of the vehicle in the event of non-compliance within the prescribed period. (5) Within 14 days of the submission of the application or removal of irregularities, the competent authority shall designate a Commission which shall carry out an on-the-spot verification of vehicle compliance with the requirements of Regulation (EC) No 852/2004 and of Regulation (EC) No 853/2004. (6) When finding non-compliance in the verification under para. 5 The Commission shall issue a prescription and set a time limit for bringing the vehicle into conformity which may not be shorter than 10 working days and longer than three months from the date of service of the prescription. (7) Within three working days of carrying out a check to comply with the prescription under para. 6 The Commission shall submit to the competent authority a consolidated report containing an opinion on: 1. registration of the vehicle; 2. refusal of registration of the vehicle. (8) Within 5 days of the submission of the minutes under para. 7 The competent authority shall issue an order for: 1. refusal of registration of the vehicle; 2. entry in the register of the vehicle, the effect of the registration shall be unlimited. (9) The order under para. 8, p. 2 contains the data under para. 2 subject to entry in the register referred to in art. 24, para. 1, including a row and period for obtaining the sticker certifying the registration of the vehicle. (10) The orders under para. 4 and para. 8, p. 1 shall be notified and may be appealed in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Code. Appeals of orders do not stop their execution. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 56: Art. 56. (1) The business operator shall notify to the competent authority under art. 53 on the day of the occurrence of a change in the recorded circumstances under art. 58, t. 3 and 4 when the vehicle is stopped and running as well as when the vehicle is temporarily withdrawn by providing information or applying documents certifying the change. (2) Within 7 days of the submission of the notification under para. 1 The competent authority shall record the change in the register referred to in Article 1. 24, para. 1. (3) In case of change of ownership or of the right to use of the vehicle, a new registration shall be made. Under art. 57 has a proposal from the MP Andrian Raykov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 57: Art. 57. (1) The registration of the vehicle shall be deleted by order of the competent authority under art. 53: 1. at the request of the business operator; 2. in the case of gross or systematic infringements of the law and/or its implementing regulations; 3. in the event of systematic obstruction of the activities of the control bodies; 4. in the event of failure to comply with a forced administrative measure imposed under the Agrofood Chain Management Act; 5. upon termination of the registration of the vehicle within the meaning of the Road Traffic Act. (2) Upon termination of the registration of the vehicle under para. 1, t. 5 a business operator shall notify the competent authority on the day of the occurrence of the change by providing information or applying documents certifying the change. (3) The order under para. 1 is reported and can be appealed under the Administrative Procedure Code. The appeal of the order issued on the grounds of para. 1, t. 2 "5" does not stop its execution. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 58: Art. 58. The competent authority under art. 53 shall enter into the register referred to in Article 53. 24, para. 1 the following information on vehicles under art. 50: 1. number and date of issue of the registration sticker; 2. name and address, respectively name, registered office and address of management of the business operator and unique identification code under the Commercial Register Act and the register of non-profit legal entities or equivalent data of the business operator registered in another Member State of the European Union, or other State of the Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area; 3. registration number, mark, model and type of vehicle, as well as volume (for tanks and containers) and load capacity (for other vehicles); 4. type of food transported by the vehicle.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u33	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I will put to the vote the following texts in the version proposed by the Commission for Articles 54, 55, 56, 57 and 58. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u34	"Division IV.. Long-distance food The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section IV. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 59: Art. 59. Trade in food at a distance shall be carried out by means of distance communication, subject to art. 14 of Regulation (EU) No 1169/2011, of the Consumer Protection Act, of the Ecommerce Act and of the regulations governing their application. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 60: Art. 60. (1) From a distance food trade may be carried out by: 1. a business operator operating in an establishment registered or approved under the law; or 2. a service provider managing a means of communication from a distance. (2) Trade in food from a distance takes place after registration. (3) The competent authority for registration shall be the Director of the relevant Regional Food Safety Directorate at the location of the establishment or headquarters of the distance communication device. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 61: Art. 61. (1) For carrying out trade in food from a distance persons under art. 60, para. 1 submit to the competent authority referred to in Article 1. 60, para. 3 application on a model approved by the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. The application shall contain at least: 1. name and address, respectively name, registered office and address of management of the person and unique identification code under the Commercial Register Act and the register of non-profit legal entities or equivalent document for registration in another Member State of the European Union, or other State of the Party under the Agreement on the European Economic Area, e-mail, e-mail address, telephone number and postal address; 2. a description of how food is traded at a distance, including means of communication: e-mail address, website, telephone number, postal address, e-mail and others to be used; 3. names or names of business operators with which long-distance food trading contracts and registration numbers or approval numbers of sites have been concluded; 4. type, number and registration numbers of vehicles and when transporting food under art. 50, para. the number and date of issue of the registration sticker; 5. declare that a food traceability plan is applied which is available at the establishment of registration for verification by the competent authority. (2) The application shall be submitted at least 14 days before the date of start of business. (3) The application shall be verified within 5 working days of its submission. Where irregularities are detected, the competent authority shall inform the applicant and shall set a time limit for their removal, which shall not be less than 10 working days and longer than 6 months, such as the period under para. 2 stops running. (4) Within 5 working days of the submission of the application, the competent authority shall: 1. issue an order for refusal of registration; 2. enter the circumstances under para. 1 in the register under art. 24, para. 1, the effect of the registration shall be unlimited. (5) The order under para. 4 t. 1 is reported and can be appealed under the Administrative Procedure Code. The appeal of the order does not stop its execution. (6) Within three working days of a change in the circumstances listed in the register, the persons referred to in art. 60, para. 1 submit a notification to the competent authority by providing information or applying documents certifying the change. (7) Within 7 days of notification under para. 6 The competent authority shall record the change in the register. Under art. 62 has a proposal from the MP Andrian Raykov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 62: Art. 62. (1) Within 7 days of the suspension of its activities, the registered under art. A person shall notify to the competent authority under Article 61. 60, para. 3 in which the braking period is indicated. (2) In the event of a change in the period of cessation of business or when the activity is resumed before the expiry of the suspension period, the person shall submit a new notification. The competent authority shall record the changes in the register under art. 24, para. 1 within three working days of notification. (3) The competent authority shall delete by order the entry in the register: 1. at the request of the registered person; 2. upon deletion of the registered person from the trade register; 3. in the event of a change of the activity of the object in an activity outside the scope of the law; 4. in the case of gross or systematic infringements of the law and/or its implementing regulations; 5. in the event of systematic obstruction of the activities of the control bodies; 6. in the event of failure to comply with a forced administrative measure imposed under the Agrofood Chain Management Act; 7. when the registered person has not resumed its activity on the day following the expiry of the notification under para. 1 braking period; 8. in the event of suspension by a control body for more than one month of the activity of the establishment as from the day of establishment, without notification under para. 1. (4) The order under para. 3 is reported and can be appealed under the Administrative Procedure Code. The appeal of the order issued on the grounds of para. 3, p. Its implementation does not stop... 8......................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u35	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I shall put the following texts to the vote: the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision and the version proposed by the Commission to the texts of Articles 59, 60, 61 and 62. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u36	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 63: Art. 63. (1) Foods may be traded at a distance, except for foods for infants and young children and foods for special medical purposes. (2) Foods traded at a distance shall: 1. have been manufactured and/or distributed in accordance with the requirements of the law in registered or approved under art. Art. 26 or art. 31 sites, in establishments registered or approved by a competent authority of another Member State, or entered into the territory of the European Union subject to the requirements of Chapter 6; 2. are labelled according to the requirements of art. 17 and the specific requirements for the food groups concerned; 3. are transported subject to the provisions of Section III of this Chapter. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 64.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u37	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 63 and the text of the importer for art. 64. 86 MPs voted: 85, none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u38	? Chapter 3???????????????? The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Three. "Division I" "Natural mineral waters and spring waters." Proposal by the MP Andrian Raykov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the importer in principle and proposes the following version of the name of..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Under art. 65 has a proposal from the MP Andrian Raykov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 65: Art. 65. Natural mineral, spring and table waters, harvested and bottled in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, shall be placed on the market when: 1. have a certificate issued; 2. are included in lists of recognised natural mineral waters, respectively spring waters, established by order of art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 3. there is a concession for extraction under the Law on concessions and the Law on Waters Under art. 66 has a proposal from the MP Andrian Raykov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 66: Art. 66. Recognition by entering in the relevant list to the order under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 before import and marketing in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria is required for: 1. natural mineral waters harvested in third countries which have not been recognised by a competent authority of another Member State of the European Union and are not listed on the list of natural mineral waters recognised by the Member States in accordance with art. 1 of Directive 2009/54/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 June 2009 on the operation and marketing of natural mineral waters (OB, L 164/45 of 26 June 2009)), hereinafter referred to as "Directive 2009/54/EC"; 2. spring waters mined in third countries. Under art. 67 has a proposal from the MP Andrian Raykov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 67: Art. 67. (1) The Minister of Health or the Deputy Minister authorised by him shall issue a certificate of mineral or spring water obtained from a particular water facility in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, which shall certify that by origin, composition and properties the mineral water, respectively the spring water, is suitable for bottling for drinking purposes. The certificate shall be issued subject to the requirements of the relevant ordinance under art. 5. (2) The issue of a certificate of mineral water shall be carried out at the request of the Minister of Environment and Water, where the water taking from a mineral water field will be used to bottle natural mineral water or other beverages in which mineral water is included. (3) The issue of a spring water certificate shall be carried out at the request of the Director of the relevant Water Management Pool Directorate for water management request for water management/water supply from an underground water body, where the water supplied will be used for the bottling of spring water or other beverages in the composition of which spring water is included. (4) Within 10 days of receipt of the request under para. 2 or 3 the relevant competent authorities under the Water Act shall inform the Minister of Health by letter of the request for the issue of a certificate to which they apply: 1. a summary of the specific hydrogeological conditions and operational resources of the mineral water field and the characteristics of the particular water-based facility; 2. information on the available water resources of the underground water body and the characteristics of the particular water system. (5) The Minister of Health or the Deputy Minister authorised by him within 10 working days of the submission of the documents under para. 4 and the analyses and conclusions of the assessments carried out on the composition and properties of the water, issue a certificate or make a motivated refusal. (6) Refusal under para. 5 is reported and can be appealed under the Administrative Procedure Code. (7) The certificate under para. 1 shall have a period of validity of 5 years from the date of its issue. (8) Certificates of mineral and spring waters shall be published on the website of the Ministry of Health within three working days of their issue. (9) Renewal of the certificate before expiry of the period under para. 7 shall be permitted subject to the requirements laid down in the relevant regulation under art. 5 as the business operator to whom a concession has been granted for mineral waters, or a water-taking permit has been granted for spring waters, shall submit a request for renewal to the relevant authority under para. 2 or 3 not later than 9 months before the expiry of the certificate. (10) A new certificate or refusal to renew a certificate shall be issued no later than the expiry date of the certificate issued for the relevant mineral or spring water harvested in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. (11) In the case of a request for renewal of a certificate of mineral or spring water within the period under para. 9 and in the absence of a pronouncement of the Minister of Health within the term under para. 10, the certificate shall be deemed valid until the issue of a new certificate or the granting of a refusal to renew the certificate, but for no more than three months. (12) Refusals under para. 10 and 11 shall be notified and may be appealed under the Administrative Procedure Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u39	Statements, coworkers? I won't. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the importer for the name of Chapter Three, the name of Section I as amended by the Commission and the version proposed by the Commission for the texts of Articles 65, 66, 67. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u40	Under art. 68 has a proposal from the MP Andrian Raykov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 68: Art. 68. (1) The Minister of Health shall by order establish a list of recognised natural mineral waters from the Republic of Bulgaria and a list of recognised spring waters from the Republic of Bulgaria, which shall comply with the requirements of the law and the relevant ordinance under art. 5. The order and the list shall be promulgated in the Official Journal. (2) The lists under para. 1 shall be in accordance with the form of the List of Natural Mineral Waters recognised by the Member States in accordance with art. 1 of Directive 2009/54/EC, published in the Official Journal of the European Union. (3) Lists under para. 1 shall be drawn up and updated by official means on the basis of the orders issued under art. 69, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 71, para. 1 and contain at least: 1. the name of the mineral water field, respectively the identification code and the name of the underground water body/source for the spring water; 2. name of the site of operation; 3. trade name under which the water is marketed. Under art. 69 has a proposal from the MP Andrian Raykov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 69: Art. 69. (1) Recognition of natural mineral or spring water, harvested and bottled in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, and inclusion in the relevant list under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 shall be carried out by order of the Minister of Health or of a Deputy Minister authorised by him on the basis of an application from a business operator submitted together with the application for registration of a bottling establishment under art. 26, para. 1. (2) The application shall be submitted in person, by electronic means, under the terms and conditions of art. 5 and 22 of the Law on Electronic Governance or through a licensed postal operator and shall contain at least: 1. name of the mineral water field, or identification code and name of the underground water body/spawn, for spring water, and the name of the watering facility from which the water is extracted; 2. for natural mineral waters: (a) the number and date of the certificate issued by the Minister of Health or by the Deputy Minister authorised by him under art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1; (b) number and/or date of concession contract concluded with the applicant for the extraction of mineral water for the purpose of bottling under the Law on concessions and the Water Act; 3. for spring waters: (a) the number and date of the certificate issued by the Minister of Health or by the Deputy Minister authorised by him under art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1; (b) the number and date of the permit for groundwater management issued to the applicant under the Water Act. (3) A draft label with which the water will be marketed shall also be attached to the application. (4) The regional health inspection of the registration of the bottling establishment shall send the application for recognition under para. 1 with the documents annexed to it and the constant protocol of the verification carried out under art. 26, para. 9. The provision of the information shall be made within three working days of the verification and, in the case of regulations and orders issued as a result, by the issue of the minutes, the order under art. 26, para. 12 and 13. After entering the site in the register under art. 24, para. 2 The regional health inspection shall notify the Ministry of Health within three days of the entry. (5) After evaluation of the documents provided under para. 4 and, in the case of established compliance with the regulations, the Minister of Health or the Deputy Minister authorised by him shall issue an order under para. 1. (6) When establishing irregularities of the documents provided by the business operator under para. 2 or finding non-compliance with the regulatory requirements, the Minister of Health or the Deputy Minister authorised by him shall inform the applicant and set a time limit for compliance which shall not be shorter than 14 days and the term under para. 7 stops running. (7) Within 20 working days of the submission of the documents under para. 4 or from the removal of irregularities or discrepancies the body under para. 6 issuing an order under para. 1 or provides a reasoned refusal. (8) Refusal under para. 7 is reported and can be appealed under the Administrative Procedure Code. The appeal of the refusal does not stop his execution. (9) The order under para. 1 shall be published on the website of the Ministry of Health within three days of its issue. Under art. 70 has a proposal from the MP Andrian Raykov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 70: Art. 70. (1) Within three days of a change in the circumstances specified in the Water Recognition Order, the business operator shall notify the Ministry of Health. The notification shall also be accompanied by documents certifying the change. (2) Notification shall also be made in the event of cessation of the bottling or supply of water activity on the market for a period longer than 6 months and in the event of a change of purpose of the registered person in accordance with art. 26 site for bottling natural mineral or spring water. (3) Where the notification contains details of a change in the circumstances specified in the Water Recognition Order which does not comply with the regulatory requirements, the business operator shall be informed of the non-compliance and a time limit shall be fixed for its removal which shall not be shorter than 10 working days. (4) The Minister of Health or his authorised Deputy Minister shall issue an order for amendment or revocation of the order under art. 69, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 72, para. 7, p. 1 in: 1. notified under para. 3; 2. found by the official control body a discrepancy between the findings and those laid down in the orders under art. 69, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 72, para. 7, p. 1 circumstances; 3. non-compliance with the regulatory requirements, not specified in the term under para. 3. (5) The orders under para. 4 shall be notified and may be appealed under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. The application of the order shall not stop its execution. Under art. 71 has a proposal from the People's Andrian Raykov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 71: Art. 71. (1) The Minister of Health or his authorised Deputy Minister shall issue an order for amendment or cancellation of: 1. the order under art. 69, para. 1 after notification by a competent authority that: (a) the concession contract for the extraction of mineral water for the purpose of bottling has been terminated or the permit for underground water is withdrawn, or has been terminated for spring water; (b) by order of the Director of Regional Health Inspection, the registration under art. 26 of the natural mineral or spring water bottling site has been deleted or amended for the relevant type of water; (c) an order has been issued by the Director of the Regional Health Inspection to prohibit the marketing of natural mineral or spring water, in the event of persistent discrepancies between the composition of the water and that indicated in the certificate referred to in art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1 and/or in the event of a risk to human health; 2. the order under art. 72, para. 7, p. 1 after notification by a competent authority that an order has been issued by the Director of the Regional Health Inspectorate to prohibit the marketing of natural mineral or spring water, in the event of persistent discrepancies between the composition of the water and that established in the certificate referred to in art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1 and the occurrence of a risk to human health. (2) Order for annulment under para. 1 shall be issued when it is: 1. a decreed refusal to renew a certificate referred to in Article 1. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is compatible with the internal market within the 2. cease the supply of natural mineral or spring water on the market for a period longer than 6 months, for which business the operator has notified the Ministry of Health or where it has been established by an official control body. (3) In the cases under para. Art. 1 and 2 and art. 70, para. 4 The competent authority of registration of the establishment shall carry out a change in the registration of the establishment by removing from the registered food groups the type of water for which the order under art. 69, para. 1. (4) The order for annulment under para. 1 is reported and can be appealed under the Administrative Procedure Code. The application of the order shall not stop its execution.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u41	Statements? I shall put to the vote the following texts: the version proposed by the Commission for the texts of art. 68, 69, 70 and 71. Vote 77 MPs: for 75, against none, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u42	Proposal by the MP Andrian Raykov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 72: Art. 72. (1) For the recognition of natural mineral or spring water harvested in the territory of a third country and its inclusion in a separate part of the relevant list under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 business operator applies to the Minister of Health. The application shall be based on a model approved by the Minister of Health and shall contain at least: 1. the name of the business operator, importer of water, headquarters and address of management, a single identification code under the Commercial Register Act and the register of non-profit legal entities; 2. name and address of the legal person 3. country of origin and competent authority for recognition. (2) The application shall be submitted in person, by electronic means, under the terms and conditions of art. 5 and 22 of the Law on Electronic Governance or through a licensed postal operator and to it shall apply: 1. a copy of the official document issued by the competent authority of the country of origin for the recognition of water as natural mineral or spring; 2. a copy of the official document issued by the competent authority of the country of origin to certify water compliance with the requirements of Directive 2009/54/EC; 3. certified by the competent authority of the country of origin programme for monitoring and inspection of the conditions for the extraction, bottling and transport of water; 4. a copy of the label with which water will be placed on the market in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as the original label available in the country of origin; 5. a statement from the producer of natural mineral or spring water that he has been notified by the business operator under para. 1, t. 1 for the initiation of a recognition procedure in the Republic of Bulgaria. (3) The document under para. 2, p. 2 shall be accompanied by: 1. information on the name, type and main geological and hydrogeological characteristics of the underwater body, the name of the water supply facility from which the water is extracted and the existence of a direct pipeline connection with the bottler; 2. protocols of analyses of physical, physical chemical, chemical, radiological and microbiological qualities of water, with a scope defined in the relevant regulation under art. 5; the analyses should be carried out by laboratories accredited for the scope of tests by a national accreditation body which is party to the multilateral agreement on mutual recognition of the European accreditation organisation for the relevant area or meets the recognition requirements under art. 5a, para. 2 of the Law on National Accreditation of Conformity Assessment Bodies; 3. information on pharmacological, physiological and clinical effects of mineral waters (where such data are present); 4. information on the treatment of natural mineral or spring water, including the methods used. (4) Where the business operator cannot provide the information under para. 2, p. 1 or 3 or under para. 3, The Minister of Health shall determine the order and manner of attesting compliance with the requirements for water recognition. The costs of carrying out compliance verification activities shall be borne by the business operator. (5) In the event of the finding of irregularities of the documents under para. The applicant shall be informed and a 20-day period shall be fixed for the submission of the documents. (6) The Minister of Health or his authorised Deputy Minister may extend the term under para. 5 for not more than three months from the date of submission of the application where the applicant submits a reasoned request. (7) Within 20 working days of submission of an application under para. 1 from the removal of irregularities or from the expiry of the term under para. 5 or 6 the Minister of Health or his authorised Deputy Minister shall issue: 1. Order for recognition of natural mineral or spring water and inclusion in the relevant list under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 2. motivated refusal of recognition. (8) Refusal under para. 7, p. 2 is reported and can be appealed under the Administrative Procedure Code. (9) The order under para. 7, p. 1 shall be published on the website of the Ministry of Health within three days of its issue. Under art. 73 has a proposal from the People's Andrian Raykov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 73: Art. 73. (1) The order under art. 72, para. 7, p. 1 shall be valid for a period of 5 years from the date of issue, and within that period, upon request by the Ministry of Health, the business operator shall provide evidence of compliance with the programme under art. 72, para. 2, p. 3. (2) The term under para. 1 may be renewed when no later than 4 months before the expiry of the order, the business operator shall submit to the Ministry of Health an up-to-date document under art. 72, para. 2, p. Two and three. (3) Where the business operator does not present an up-to-date document within the period under para. 2, natural mineral or spring water shall be deleted from the relevant list under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 by order of the Minister of Health or of the Deputy Minister authorised by him.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u43	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the texts of art. 72 and 73. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted. I'm calling a recess for 30 minutes. We start work at 12:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u44	Colleagues, we're continuing the hearing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u45	Under art. 74 has a proposal from the MP Andrian Raykov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 74: Art. 74. (1) The Minister of Health or his authorised Deputy Minister shall issue an order for amendment or revocation of the recognition order on the basis of: 1. notification by a producer or importer of water; 2. notification by the competent authority of the country in which the water is produced; 3. discrepancy between the established and included in the order under art. 72, para. 7, p. 1 circumstances found by an official control authority; 4. non-compliances with the regulatory requirements within the specified time limit. (2) The order under para. 1 is reported and can be appealed under the Administrative Procedure Code. The order's appeal does not stop its execution. Under art. 75 has a proposal from the MP Andrian Raykov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 75: Art. 75. (1) The Minister of Health shall provide the European Commission with information on the natural mineral waters recognised by the Republic of Bulgaria. (2) The Minister of Health shall provide the European Commission annually with an updated list of natural mineral waters recognised by the Republic of Bulgaria. (3) At the request of the European Commission or a Member State of the European Union, the Ministry of Health shall provide any relevant information on natural mineral waters recognised by the Republic of Bulgaria, including results of systematic checks. "Section II - Foods intended for infants and young children, foods for special medical purposes and foods in which vitamins, minerals and certain other substances are consumed.' The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section II. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 76: Art. 76. (1) The Minister of Health shall be a competent authority for the registration of foods intended for infants and young children, foods for special medical purposes and foods to which vitamins, minerals and certain other substances have been added pursuant to Regulation (EC) No (2) Business operators shall notify the Ministry of Health when placing for the first time on the market in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria: 1. food for infants; 2. transitional food produced from protein hydrolysiss or transitional food containing substances other than those listed in Annex II to Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2016/127 of 25 September 2016 supplementing Regulation (EU) No 609/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council with regard to specific compositional requirements and the provision of information on infant formula and follow-on formulae and information requirements relating to the feeding of infants and young children (OB, L 25/1 of 2 February 2016)) 3. food for special medical purposes; 4. food in which vitamins, minerals and certain other substances have been added pursuant to Regulation (EC) No are added. (3) The notification shall contain at least: 1. name and address, respectively name, registered office and address of management of the business operator and single identification code under the Commercial Register Act and the register of non-profit legal entities or equivalent registration document in another Member State of the European Union, or other State of the European Economic Area Agreement; 2. address of the production site, and where the activity at the site is carried out by a business operator other than that under point 2. 1? its name or name and address of management; 3. type and address of the distribution site where it is different from the address under point 3. 1 or 2; 4. date of placing on the market in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of the food which may not be earlier than 14 days from the date of submission of the notification; 5. the purpose of food and data of its compliance with the requirements for its composition, characteristics and purpose. (4) The notification shall be accompanied by: 1. a label with which the food will be placed on the market in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria; 2. original label when food is not Bulgarian production; 3. data establishing the conformity of foodstuffs with the requirements concerning their composition, characteristics and purpose, as well as other information necessary for the preparation of the opinion under para. 6. (5) The Ministry of Health may require the business operator to provide scientific research or data which establish compliance of the food with the requirements for its composition, characteristics and purpose and other necessary information. Where research or data is contained in a scientific publication, information shall be provided on it. (6) Within one month of receipt of the notification under para. 2 or provision of the information under para. 5, the competent authority shall issue an opinion on compliance or non-compliance of food with the regulatory requirements, which shall be sent to the relevant business operator and to the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency within 7 days of its issue. (7) In the case of a statement of compliance of food with the regulatory requirements, the competent authority shall enter in the register referred to in art. 24, para. 1 the following information on notifications made: 1. the number and date of the notification submitted; 2. name and address, corresponding name, seat and address of management of the business operator; 3. address of the production site, name and address, corresponding name, registered office and management address of the business operator operating therein; 4. type and address of the distribution site where it is different from that of the distribution site. 2 and 3; 5. type and name of the food; 6. composition of food; 7. the purpose of the food; 8. date of placing on the market. (8) In the event of a change of recorded circumstances under para. 7, p. The business operator shall notify the competent authority without delay by providing information or applying documents certifying the change. (9) In the event of a change of recorded circumstances under para. 7, p. 2, 3, 4 and 7 The competent authority shall record the change in the register under art. 24, para. 1 within 7 days of notification. (10) In the case of an opinion issued under para. 6 for non-compliance of food with the regulatory requirements The Bulgarian Food Safety Agency implements forced administrative measures under the Agrofood Chain Management Act. (11) Deleting from the register under art. 24, para. 1 per meal by para. 1 shall be carried out by order of the competent authority at: 1. termination of the activity at the request of the business operator; 2. failure to comply with a forced administrative measure imposed under the Agrofood Chain Management Act; 3. change the name and/or quality and/or quantitative composition of the food. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 77: Art. 77. When food under art. 76, para. 1 is first placed on the market of another Member State of the European Union, to the notification under art. 76, para. 2 documents issued by the competent authority of the Member State concerned shall also apply.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u46	Are there any speeches on the members represented? I can't see. We move on to the vote on art. 74 in the version of the Commission; 75 in the version of the Commission; Section II for the name of the Import Section and Articles 76 and 77 both in the version of the Commission. [[Noise and lines.]] I am using the voting time to ask you, colleagues, to make it a little quieter in this House, because for the reader it really is not pleasant this loud noise and the bilateral talks that are being held. I understand that because of the masks, you have to talk a little louder, if it's too loud, it gets in the way of work. They voted 71 MPs: for 71, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u47	"Department III. "Addments, enzymes and flavourings in food and nutritional supplements. Foods intended for use in intensive muscle load. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section III. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 78: Art. 78. (1) The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall be a national competent authority for the purposes of art. 15 of Regulation (EC) No 1331/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2008 establishing a common authorisation procedure for food additives, food enzymes and food flavourings (OB, L 354/1 of 31 December 2008).), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EC) No 1331/2008'. (2) Additives, enzymes and flavourings may be added or used in or on foods subject to Regulation (EC) No 1331/2008. Under art. 79 has a proposal from the MP Professor Georgi Mihaylov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 79: Art. 79. (1) The competent authority for the registration of food supplements and foods intended for use in intensive muscle load shall be the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. (2) For the first time on the market in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of a food additive or food intended for use in intensive muscle load, the business operator shall submit an application to the competent authority. (3) The application shall be based on a model approved by the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency and shall contain at least: 1. name and address, respectively name, registered office and address of management of the business operator, and a single identification code under the Commercial Register Act and the register of non-profit legal entities or equivalent registration document in another Member State of the European Union, or another State party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area; 2. address of the production site, and where the activity at the site is carried out by a business operator other than that under point 2. 1? its name or name, seat and address of management; 3. type and address of the distribution site where it is different from the one under point 3. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 4. the information under art. 61, para. 1, t. 2 - where applicable; 5. date of placing on the market in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of the food additive or food intended for use in an intensive muscle load which cannot be earlier than 14 days from the submission of the application; 6. commercial name and quality and quantitative composition of the food additive or food intended for use in intensive muscle load; 7. purpose of food supplement or food. (4) The application shall be accompanied by: 1. a label with which the food additive or food intended for use in intensive muscle load will be placed on the market on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria; 2. original label when the product is not Bulgarian production; 3. a declaration of compliance of the composition of the food additive or food intended for use in intensive muscle load with the information on the label, including the absence in their composition of substances as defined in the relevant regulations under art. 81. (5) The application shall be verified within 10 days of its submission. Where irregularities are detected, the competent authority shall inform the applicant and shall set a time limit for their removal, which shall not be less than 10 working days, such as the period referred to in para. 3, p. Five stops running. (6) The competent authority may require the business operator to submit a scientific study or data establishing the conformity of the food additive or food intended for use in intensive muscle load with the requirements for its composition, characteristics and purpose and other necessary information. Where research or data is contained in a scientific publication, information shall be provided on it. (7) The competent authority may request the Ministry of Health, the Food Chain Risk Assessment Centre, the National Centre for Public Health and Analysis, the Antidopping Centre, the Drug Executive Agency or other institutions and organisations to provide an opinion on compliance with the regulatory requirements of the composition, the quantity and type of ingredients consumed in a food additive or food intended for use in intensive muscle load. (8) Institutions or organisations under para. 7 submit the opinion within 10 days of receipt of the request. (9) Within 7 days of the submission of the application, from the removal of irregularities, from the expiry of the period for their removal or from the receipt of an opinion under para. The competent authority shall: 1. enter the food additive or food intended for use in intensive muscle load in the register referred to in Article 1. 24, para. 1; 2. issue an order for refusal of entry. (10) The order under para. 9, p. 2 is reported and can be appealed under the Administrative Procedure Code. The appeal of the order does not stop its execution. (11) Food supplement or food intended for use in intensive muscle load shall be placed on the market in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria after entry in the register referred to in Article 1. 24, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. Proposal by the MP Andrian Raykov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 80: Art. 80. (1) The competent authority under art. 79, para. 1 shall enter into the register under art. 24, para. 1 the following information on applications for registration of food additives and foodstuffs intended for use in intensive muscle load placed on the market in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria: 1. the number and date of the application submitted; 2. name and address, corresponding name, seat and address of management of the business operator; 3. address of the production site, name and address, corresponding name, registered office and management address of the business operator operating therein; 4. type and address of the distribution site where it is different from that of the distribution site. 2 or 3; 5. name of the food additive or food intended for use in intensive muscle load; 6. quality and quantitative composition of the food additive or food intended for use in intensive muscle load; 7. purpose of the food additive or food intended for use in intensive muscle load; 8. date of placing on the market. (2) In the event of a change of recorded circumstances under para. 1, t. The business operator shall notify the competent authority without delay by providing information or applying documents certifying the change. (3) In the event of a change of recorded circumstances under para. 1, t. 2, 3, 4 and 7 The competent authority shall record the change in the register under art. 24, para. 1 within 7 days of notification. (4) Deleting from the register under art. 24, para. 1 of a food additive or food intended for use in intensive muscle load shall be carried out by order of the competent authority in: 1. termination of the activity of production and marketing of food supplement or food entered in the register intended for use in intensive muscle load - at the request of the operator; 2. failure to comply with a forced administrative measure imposed under the Agrofood Chain Management Act; 3. a change of the name and/or qualitative and/or quantitative composition of listed in the register under art. 24, para. 1 food supplement or food intended for use in intensive muscle load. Under art. 81 has a proposal from the MP Georgi Stankov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 81: Art. 81. The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, together with the Minister of Health, and in coordination with the Minister of Youth and Sport, issues: 1. Regulation on food supplements introducing European Union law concerning: (a) the nutrients (vitamins and minerals) that may be consumed in the production of food additives; (b) substances with nutritional or physiological effects that may be used in the production of food additives; (c) criteria for purity of nutrients intended for use in food supplements; (d) the information to be noted when labelling food additives; (e) plants and parts of plants which cannot be added to food supplements; (f) substances which cannot be added to food supplements; 2. Regulation on requirements for food intended for use in intensive muscle load. "Section IV - Genetically modified foods'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name for Section IV.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u48	Let's vote so far, Mrs. Belova, and then we'll continue with the members of Section IV. Are there any speeches on the Members so represented? I can't see. We shall proceed to the vote on the name of Section III by importer; Articles 78, 79, 80 and 81 in the version of the Commission in each of them respectively; and the name of Section IV by importer. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u49	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 82. Proposal of the National Representative Georgi Stankov and a group of MPs under art. 83. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 83: Art. 83. (1) A business operator wishing to place on the market genetically modified foods, GMOs for use in food or as food and food containing ingredients produced from GMOs shall submit an application for authorisation to the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry or to a national competent authority of another Member State of the European Union. (2) The application shall be drawn up and submitted subject to the requirements of Implementing Regulation (EU) No 503/2013. (3) The application may also include a request for the release of genetically modified feed or GMOs for use in feed or as feed. (4) The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall notify the business operator within 14 days of receipt of the application, indicating the date of receipt. Where irregularities are detected, the competent authority shall notify the applicant and set a time limit for their removal which shall not be less than 14 days. (5) Within 7 days of the expiry of the time limits under para. 4 The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall send the application under para. 1 and the documents annexed to it by the European Food Safety Authority, notified to the applicant. (6) At the request of the European Food Safety Authority: 1. The Centre for Risk Assessment on the Food Chain pursuant to art. point (b) of paragraph 3 of Regulation (EC) No 1829/2003 shall prepare a food safety assessment; 2. The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry according to art. Article 6 (3) (c) of Regulation (EC) No 1829/2003 shall draw up an evaluation report pursuant to Article 6 (3) (c) of that Regulation. 66 of the Law on Genetically Modified Organisms. Proposal of the National Representative Georgi Stankov and a group of representatives for art. 84. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 84: Art. 84. (1) Business operator within the meaning of art. 2 (3) of Regulation (EC) No 1829/2003 is required to comply with, in addition to the requirements of art. 17 and 19, and the labelling requirements for genetically modified food, GMOs for use in foods or as food and food containing ingredients produced from GMOs as laid down in Regulation (EC) No 1829/2003. (2) Business operator within the meaning of art. 3 paragraph 5 of Regulation (EC) No 1830/2003 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 September 2003 on the traceability and labelling of genetically modified organisms and the traceability of food and feed from genetically modified products and amending Directive 2001/18/EC, hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EC) No 1830/2003', is required to comply with, in addition to the requirements of art. 17 and 19 and Regulation (EC) No 1829/2003 and the traceability and labelling requirements for genetically modified food, GMOs for use in food or as food and food containing ingredients produced from GMOs as laid down in Regulation (EC) No 1830/2003. (3) Where the food contains or consists of GMOs in a ratio above the threshold limit set out in Regulation (EC) No 1830/2003, the type, quantitative content, the unique identifier of the GMOs and the words (4) Business operators under para. 1 are required to have procedures in place to identify the operators from which they have purchased and sold the food to ensure traceability. (5) The labelling of genetically modified food, GMOs for use in food or as food or food containing ingredients produced from GMOs shall also comply with the requirements of art. 4 (6) of Regulation (EC) No 1830/2003 and art. 13 of Regulation (EC) No 1829/2003. (6) The information exchanged between business operators under para. 1 and 2, at each stage of distribution of genetically modified food, GMOs for use in food or as food or food containing GMOs ingredients, shall be stored 5 years after the conclusion of each transaction. Under art. 85 has a proposal of the MP Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Georgi Stankov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 85: Art. 85. The terms and conditions under which the food may be subject to the label........................................................................................... 5. Under art. 86 has a proposal from the MP Georgi Stankov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 86: Art. 86. Business operators under art. They shall take samples to ensure that the food they produce meets the requirements of Regulation (EC) No 1829/2003. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 87. "Division V.. Foods exposed to ionizing The Commission supports the text of the importer in principle and proposes the following version for the name of Section V
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u50	Let's vote here. Are there any speeches on the texts so proposed, Members? I won't. We are going to vote on the following Articles: 82 by importer; 83, 84, 85, 86 by version of the Commission for each of them; art. 87 by importer, also supported by the Commission; and the name of Section V in the version of the Commission. Vote 96 MPs: 94, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u51	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 88: Art. 88. (1) Processing of food with ionizing radiation shall be carried out only by persons registered by the Minister of Health or by a Deputy Minister authorised by him to carry out this type of activity. (2) The processing of each individual type of food with ionizing radiation shall be carried out after the authorisation of the Minister of Health or by a Deputy Minister authorised by him. (3) The Minister of Health shall, in agreement with the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, issue a regulation on the conditions and procedures for the processing of food with ionizing radiation and on the requirements for such food. Under art. 89 has a proposal of Georgi Stankov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 89: Art. 89. (1) Processing of food with ionizing radiation shall be permitted where there is a legitimate technological need for it, there is no danger to human health and shall be beneficial to the end-user. (2) Only foods specified in the ordinance under Article may be processed with ionizing radiation. 88, para. 3 introducing Directive 1999/3/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 February 1999 drawing up a Community list of food and food ingredients treated with ionizing radiation. (3) Processing of food with ionizing radiation may be used only for the purpose of: 1. reducing the risk of food diseases by destroying diseased organisms; 2. reducing the risk of food decay by delaying or stopping the rotation and destruction processes of rotable micro-organisms; 3. reduction of food storage losses by delaying ripening, growing or sprouting; 4. the removal of organisms harmful to plants and to food of plant origin. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 90: Art. 90. (1) For registration for the activity of the processing of food with ionizings, the person shall submit an application to the Minister of Health. The application shall be based on a model approved by the Minister of Health and shall contain at least: 1. name and address, respectively name, registered office and address of management of the person and unique identification code under the Commercial Register Act and the register of non-profit legal entities or equivalent registration document in another Member State of the European Union, or other State of the Party under the Agreement on the European Economic Area; 2. address of the object for carrying out the treatment with ionizing radiation; 3. Registration number of the licence for the use of sources of ionizing radiation under art. 15, para. 3, p. 2 of the Law on the Safe Use of Nuclear Energy; 4. information on the type of source of ionizing radiation; 5. standardised methods for determining the total mean absorbed dose of the field and the exposed food; 6. List of foods under art. 89, para. 2 which will be treated with ionizing radiation. (2) In the event of finding irregularities in the information provided under para. 1 or, where necessary, additional information shall be notified to the applicant within 14 days of the submission of the application and a period shall be fixed for their removal which shall not be less than 10 working days. In the event of non-compliance within the prescribed time limit, the application shall not be considered. (3) Within 14 days of receipt of the application, from the expiry of the period under para. 2, the Minister of Health or his authorised Deputy Minister shall issue an order for: 1. registration for the activity of the processing of food with ionizing................................................................................................................................................ 2. Refusal of registration. (4) The order under para. 3, p. 2 is reported and can be appealed under the Administrative Procedure Code. The appeal of the order does not stop its execution. (5) The registration for the activity of the processing of food with ionizing.... has a period of validity equal to the duration of the licence under art............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 15, para. 3, p. 2 of the Law on the Safe Use of Nuclear Energy. A certificate shall be issued for the registration of the person within the period under para. 3. (6) The Minister of Health or the Deputy Minister authorised by him shall issue an order to terminate the registration and to cancel the certificate issued under para. 5. 1. at the request of the registered person; 2. upon deletion of the legal person from the trade register; 3. in the event of withdrawal, termination or expiry of the licence under para. 1, t. 3; 4. in cases of systematic violation of the requirements of the law and its implementing regulations; 5. when establishing that the registered person has provided false information which has served as a basis for carrying out the registration; 6. in the event of death of the natural person. (7) The order under para. 6 is reported and can be appealed under the Administrative Procedure Code. The appeal of the order issued on the grounds of para. 6, p. 2 " 5 " does not stop its execution. (8) In the register referred to in art. 24, para. 2 shall be entered: 1. the data under para. 1; 2. the period of registration under para. 5; 3. number and date of order under para. The Commission supports the text of the importer and proposes the following version of art. 91: Art. 91. (1) For each particular case for issuing authorisation for the processing of food under art. 88, para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 89, para. 2 the business operator applies to the Ministry of Health. The application shall be based on a model approved by the Minister of Health and shall indicate in it the business operator: 1. the type and quantity of food to be treated with ionizing radiation; 2. the object for carrying out the processing under art. 90, para. 1, t. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 3. justification for the necessity and purpose of the processing; 4. whether or not food has previously been treated with ionizing radiation. (2) Within 14 days of submission of the application, the Minister of Health or his authorised Deputy Minister shall issue an order: 1. by which it allows the treatment with ionizing radiation; 2. for refusal of authorisation. (3) The order for refusal under para. 2, p. 2 is reported and can be appealed under the Administrative Procedure Code. The appeal of the order does not stop its execution. (4) The authority under para. 2 informs the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forest of the orders issued which allow the handling of food with ionizing "Division VI "Smoky flavourings used or intended for use in or on foods. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section VI.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u52	Let's take a vote here and go section by section. Hey, guys, any speeches? I can't see. We are going to vote on Articles 88, 89, 90 and 91 in the version of the Commission and on the name of Section VI by importer. Please vote. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u53	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 92: Art. 92. (1) A business operator who wants the primary product for smoke flavourings to be included in the list under art. 6 (1) of Regulation (EC) No 2065/2003 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 10 November 2003 on smoke flavourings used or intended for use in or on foods, hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EC) No 206', submit to the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry or to a competent authority of another Member State of the European Union an application for authorisation. (2) The application shall contain the data referred to in art. 7 (3) of Regulation (EC) No 2065/2003. (3) The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall notify the business operator within 14 days of receipt of the application, indicating the date of receipt. (4) The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall inform and forward the application for advice, including the additional information provided by the business operator, to the European Food Safety Authority. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 93: Art. 93. (1) Renewal, amendment, suspension and withdrawal of authorisation under art. 92, para. 1 shall be carried out in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 2065/2003. (2) The business operator shall submit an application to the European Commission for renewal of an authorisation not later than 18 months before its expiry date. The content of the application and the documents attached to it are set out in art. Article 12 (2) of Regulation (EC) No 206 "Department VII "New Foods ". The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section VII. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 94: Art. 94. (1) The placing of novel foods on the market shall be subject to authorisation and inclusion in the Union list of novel foods under Regulation (EU) No 2015/2283 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2015 on novel foods, amending Regulation (EU) No 1169/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Regulation (EC) No 258/97 of the European Parliament and of the Council and Commission Regulation (EC) No 1852/2001 (OB, L 327/1 of 11 December 2015.), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) No 2015/2283'. (2) The Minister of Health shall be a national competent authority for the purposes of art. 4 of Regulation (EU) No 2015/2283. Under art. 95 has a proposal from Georgi Stankov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes art. 95 to be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u54	Maybe this is where we end Chapter Three, and then we'll move on. Are there any speeches, colleagues? I can't see. Let's move on to voting under Articles 92 and 93 in the version of the Commission, the name of Section VII by importer, art. 94 in the version of the Commission and for rejection of art. 95. Please vote. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u55	"Chapters 4 - Food banking and provision of food for free." Proposal of Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes the following version of the name "Chapter Four'. Under art. 96 has a proposal of Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission generally supports the proposal as para. 3 is reflected in its systematic place in art. 104. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 96, which becomes Art. 95: Art. 95. (1) Food banking is a set of activities aimed at providing free food to persons in need and to persons providing social services. (2) Food banking shall be carried out by persons registered under the Law on Non-Profit Legal Entities designated for carrying out public benefit activities which have been authorised as a food bank operator. Under art. 97 has a proposal of Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of Georgi Stankov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 97, which becomes Art. 96: Art. 96. (1) Food banking activities shall be: 1. free provision of food from: (a) producers and food traders of a food bank operator; (b) an operator of a food bank to persons in need and to persons providing social services; 2. storage, storage and/or packaging and/or repackaging of foods granted free of charge to a food bank operator. (2) The list of food products subject to food banking shall be validated by an order of the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry in consultation with the Minister of Finance on a reasoned proposal from the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. The order and list are published on the websites of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry and the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. (3) The list under para. 2 contains information on the time limits within which food is provided free of charge. The time limits shall be set on the basis of minimum durability or shelf life of the food concerned. (4) The Minister of Labour and Social Policy shall establish by order a list of groups of persons in need and of persons providing social services to whom food bank operators may provide food free of charge. The order and list shall be published on the website of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. (5) When carrying out activities in food banking, the persons under art. 95, para. 2 are food business operators within the meaning of art. 3 (3) of Regulation (EC) No 178/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 January 2002 laying down the general principles and requirements of food law, establishing the European Food Safety Authority and laying down procedures in matters of food safety, hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EC) No 178/2002'. (6) The Bulgarian Food Safety Agency controls the activities of food bank operators for the safety of the food provided free of charge. Under art. 98 has a proposal of the MP Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose a subsequent version of art. 98, which becomes Art. 97: Art. 97. The food bank operator shall meet at the same time the following conditions: 1. to be entered in the register of non-profit legal entities under the Commercial Register Act and the Register of Non-profit Legal Entities; 2. there shall be no public obligations to be enforced; 3. have: (a) own or leased establishments or areas in establishments for carrying out food banking activities which comply with the hygiene and/or animal health requirements laid down by a regulatory act; establishments registered under art. 26 and situated in the territory of not less than 20 percent of the districts of the country; (b) own and/or leased vehicles registered under art. 55 where necessary to carry out food banking activities; (c) own network or network of partner organisations for free provision of food; 4. to apply traceability requirements and to use a reporting system allowing the authorities of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency and the National Revenue Agency to carry out control of the food provided free of charge to the food bank operator, including the supplier or trader identified with a single identification code under the Commercial Register Act and the register of non-profit legal entities. Under art. 99 has a proposal of the MP Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 99, which becomes art. 98: Art. 98. (1) For the authorisation of a food bank operator, the persons referred to in art. 95, para. 2 submit an application to the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. (2) The application shall be based on a model approved by the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency and shall contain the data under art. 26, para. 2, as well as data on the type of food to be provided free of charge. (3) The application shall be accompanied by: 1. a document of ownership and/or any other document certifying the right of the food bank operator to use the establishment and/or vehicles to carry out the activity; 2. a document for the operator's reporting system under art. 97, t. 4; 3. a plan for carrying out food banking, which contains: (a) food banking activities to be carried out; (b) the annual estimated volume of food provided free of charge; (c) the maximum storage capacity for the storage of food provided for free by type of food; (d) the manner in which the food is disposed of on the expiry date; 4. financial justification for sources of funding and for providing the necessary means to carry out food banking and food destruction activities; 5. a statement that the applicant is not in proceedings of termination under the Law on Non-Profit Legal Entities. Under art. 100 has a proposal of the MP Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 100, which becomes art. 99: Art. 99. (1) The application under art. 98, para. 1 shall be dealt with by the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. (2) In the event of establishment of irregularities, the persons referred to in para. 1 notify the applicant and set a 14-day period for receipt of the removal notification. (3) Where irregularities are not removed within the period under para. 2, the application shall be returned to the applicant and the proceedings shall be terminated by decision of the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. (4) Within 30 days of receipt of the application, the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency shall, respectively, issue or motivate the granting of an authorisation. (5) Non-producing within the term under para. 4 is considered a silent refusal. (6) The acts under para. 3 and 4 shall be notified and may be appealed under the Administrative Procedure Code. (7) Upon refusal of authorisation, the applicant may submit a new application not earlier than 90 days after the decision to refuse, respectively, from the entry into force of the judgment in which the appeal was rejected as unfounded. In the event of a silent refusal, the applicant may submit a new application not earlier than 90 days from the expiry of the period under para. 4. Under art. 101 has a proposal of the MP Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 101, which becomes Art. 100.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u56	Are there any speeches, colleagues, on the last members presented? I can't see. We are going to vote on the name of Chapter IV in the version of the Commission; art. 96, 97, 98, 99 and 100, which we vote in the version of the Commission and therefore become art. 95, 96, 97, 98 and 99 and art. 101 by importer, which becomes art. 100. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u57	Under art. 102 has a proposal of the MP Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 102, which becomes Art. 101: Art. 101. (1) The authorisation of a food bank operator shall be granted for a period of up to 5 years. (2) The authorisation shall contain: 1. the name of the issuing authority; 2. name and number of the act; 3. legal and factual grounds for issuing the act; 4. name, seat, address of management and unique identification code of the person; 5. period of authorisation; 6. objects through which the activity will be carried out; 7. date of entry into force of the authorisation. Under art. 103 has a proposal of the MP Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 103, which becomes art. 102: Art. 102. A person authorised as a food bank operator shall be required to inform the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency of any changes in the circumstances under which the authorisation was granted within 14 days of their entry into force and to submit the necessary documents certifying the change. Under art. 104 has a proposal of the MP Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 104, which becomes Art. 103: Art. 103. (1) The Bulgarian Food Safety Agency shall maintain on its website a public register of authorisations issued for food bank operators. (2) The Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency shall appoint by order officials who shall maintain the register. (3) The register shall be kept by establishing an electronic database and files for persons including the circumstances to be entered. (4) The information referred to in Article shall be subject to entry. No. 104, para. 1 and subsequent changes to it. (5) The entries in the register shall be made on the basis of the decisions of the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. (6) The entry of the circumstances for the person concerned shall be made on the basis of the data contained in the documents submitted to the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency or collected by the person concerned. (7) For each person to be entered in the register, an electronic file with a unique code shall be created in the electronic database where the intended entries are made. (8) For each person to be entered in the register, a file shall be opened for each individual authorisation in which all documents relating to the person, including the acts of the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, are arranged in accordance with the order of entry. (9) The information to be entered in the register shall be updated within 14 days following the receipt of the notification under art. 102. Under art. 105 has a proposal of the MP Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 105, which becomes Art. 104: Art. 104. In the register under art. 103, para. 1 shall be entered: 1. the name of the non-profit legal person designated for carrying out a public benefit activity; 2. the unique identification code of the non-profit entity; 3. the date of entry of the application for authorisation; 4. the date and number of the act on which the authorisation is issued; 5. the date and number of the act by which the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency amends or complements the authorisation issued; 6. the type and address of the objects through which the activity will be carried out; 7. the imposed property penalties and forced administrative measures. Under art. 106 has a proposal of the MP Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 106, which becomes art. 105: Art. 105. (1) The authorisation of a food bank operator shall be extended by a new period of up to 5 years when the application has been submitted at least 6 months before the expiry of the authorisation and the person shall comply with the requirements of art. 97. (2) The extension of the authorisation shall be carried out in accordance with the procedure and within the time limits for the submission and examination of the application for authorisation. Under art. 107 has a proposal of the MP Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Article 107 is replaced by the following: 106: Art. 106. (1) The action of an authorisation for a food bank operator shall be terminated by decision of the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency: 1. upon expiry of the authorisation; 2. at the request of the operator, including in the case of the transfer of the property with which the food banking activity takes place; 3. in the event of systematic obstruction of the activities of the control bodies; 4. where the operator does not start operating within 12 months of the entry into force of the authorisation; 5. where the operator ceases to comply with the conditions under which the authorisation has been granted; 6. where a penalty has been imposed on the operator with an effective penalty order for repeated violation of the provisions of this law and/or of the Value Added Tax Act; 7. upon termination of the non-profit corporate body. (2) The termination proceedings shall commence at the reasoned decision of the competent authority or at the request of a food bank operator. (3) To end the authorisation, the food bank operator shall submit to the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency an application on a model approved by the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. The application shall contain at least: 1. name of the operator of the food bank; registered office, management address and identification code of the non-profit entity; 2. registration number of the authorisation; 3. justification of the requested termination. (4) Documents proving the grounds for termination shall be annexed to the application. (5) Where the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency initiates proceedings for the termination of an authorisation, a communication shall be sent to the food bank operator indicating the grounds for termination. The operator may provide an opinion on the grounds for termination of the authorisation within 14 days of receipt of the communication. (6) The decision to terminate the authorisation shall be notified and may be appealed under the Administrative Procedure Code. (7) A person who has been suspended from the authorisation of a food bank operator may not apply for a new authorisation for the same activity within a two-year period of termination of the authorisation. Under art. 108 has a proposal of the MP Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 108, which becomes art. 107: Art. 107. For registration in the register under art. 103 the operator of the food bank does not pay a fee. Under art. 109 has a proposal of the MP Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 109, which becomes Art. 108: Art. 108. The Council of Ministers, by regulation, lays down the specific requirements for carrying out food banking and control of this activity.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u58	Are there any, colleagues, statements under art. 102 to 109? I can't see. We're going to vote on art. 102, 103, 104, 105, 106, 107, 108 and 109, respectively, in Commission version 101, 102, 103, 104, 105, 106, 107 and 108. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u59	"Chapter Five" Official Food Control. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Five. "Department I.. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes to reject the name. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 110, which becomes Art. 110. 109: Art. 109. The Bulgarian Food Safety Agency shall carry out: 1. official control of food at all stages of production, processing and/or distribution with the exception of bottled natural mineral, spring and table waters; 2. official controls for the assessment of food conformity with the requirements of national, established or sectoral standards where a claim for compliance has been made; 3. control of food conformity with the requirements of Regulation (EC) No 834/2007, Regulation (EU) No 1151/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 November 2012 on quality schemes for agricultural products and foodstuffs (OB, L 343/1 of 14 December 2012) and Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 543/2011 of 7 June 2011 laying down detailed rules for the application of Council Regulation (EC) No 1234/2007 in respect of the fruit and vegetables and processed fruit and vegetables sectors (OB, L 157/1 of 15 June 2011)), under its powers under the Law on the Implementation of the Common Organisation of Agricultural Markets of the European Union; 4. official controls on food contact materials and articles at all stages of production, processing and/or distribution. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Article 111, which shall become Article 111. 110: Art. 110. Regional health inspections shall carry out official controls on bottled natural mineral, spring and table water at all stages of production, processing and/or distribution. Under art. 112 has a proposal from the MP Andrian Raykov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Article 112, which shall become Article 112. 111: Art. 111. The bodies of official food controls shall be included in the composition of expert advice on a structure in the territory, shall coordinate, if necessary, development plans, participate in the assessment of the conformity of investment projects where it is carried out by an expert board of the approval authority or at the request of natural or legal persons, give opinions on the readiness of the constructions to put them into service or participate in the composition of the state admission committees for food production, processing and/or distribution sites under the Law on Construction of the Area. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 113, which becomes Art. 112: Art. 112. (1) To issue the necessary documents under the law and to carry out official controls in the field of food shall be charged fees of an amount fixed by the tariff under art. 3, para. 4 of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency Act. (2) To issue the necessary documents under the law and to carry out official controls on bottled natural mineral, spring and table waters shall be collected fees of an amount determined by the tariff under art. 46 of the Health Act. (3) For the provision of services to natural and legal persons engaged in activities under the law, other than those under para. 1 prices are paid by price signature, approved by the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. (4) All applications and notifications under the law may be submitted and sent in person by electronic means under the conditions and under the terms of art. 5 and 22 of the Law on Electronic Governance or through a licensed postal operator. Under art. 114 has a proposal from the MP Rumen Georgiev. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 114, which becomes Art. 113: Art. 113. (1) The official control of food produced by established, branch or national standards and the indication of compliance with these standards shall be carried out by procedures established by the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. (2) The Bulgarian Food Safety Agency shall lead and maintain a public list of business operators producing food according to established, branch or national standards, which shall publish on its website. Proposal pa MP Rumen Georgiev. The Commission shall in principle support the proposal, which shall be reflected in its systematic place in art. 113. Section II - Terms and procedure for carrying out service activities. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes to reject the name. Under art. 115 has a proposal from the MP Andrian Raykov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 115, which becomes art. 114: Art. 114. The sampling, analysis and testing and determination of laboratories for the purpose of official controls shall be carried out under the terms and conditions of the Agricultural Chain Management Act. Proposal by the MP Andrian Raykov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes art. 116 to be rejected. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes art. 117 to be rejected. "Chapter 6" "Entrance into the European Union and export of food." Proposal by the MP Andrian Raykov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes the following version of the name "Chapter Six'. Under art. 119 has a proposal from the MP Andrian Raykov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes art. 118 to be rejected. [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u60	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u61	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 119, which becomes Art. 115: Art. 115. (1) At the request of an exporter, the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency shall issue an export certificate for food of non-animal origin produced in the Republic of Bulgaria and food contact materials and articles where the country for which the food is exported requires this. The certificate certify that the products are placed on the market in accordance with the requirements of the Bulgarian legislation and European Union law and are distributed freely in the territory of the European Union. (2) The conditions and procedure for issuing the certificate under para. 1 shall be appointed by the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 120, which becomes art. 116: Art. 116. The Ministry of Health shall issue a health certificate for the export of bottled natural mineral, spring and table waters intended for drinking purposes, at the request of the exporter or the person concerned, in accordance with art. 37 of the Health Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u62	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Five; the rejection of the name of the Section; the version of art. Art. 110, which becomes Art. 110. 109 of the Commission Report; the version of art. Article 111, which shall become Article 111. 110 according to the Commission Report; the version of art. Art. 112 and 113, which become respectively art. 111 and 112 of the Commission Report; the version of art. 114, which becomes Art. 113 on the Commission Report; rejection of the name of Section II; version of art. 115, which becomes art. 114 on the Commission report; rejection of art. 116; rejection of art. 117; the editorial amendment in the name of Chapter 6; the rejection of art. Article 118; version of Art. 118 Art. 119 and 120, which become respectively art. 115 and 116 on the Commission Report. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u63	The Commission supports the text of the importer in principle and proposes to create the following name of Reconciliation commission. "Department I" "National Food Council". The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section I. Under art. 121 has a proposal of the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 121, which becomes Art. 117: Art. 117. (1) A National Food Council, hereinafter referred to as the National Council, shall be established to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry as a permanent advisory body assisting the Minister in conducting the state food policy. (2) The President of the National Council shall be the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, who shall by order determine its composition. (3) The National Council shall be composed of: 1. the Minister of Health; 2. the Minister of Economy; 3. the Minister of Environment and Water; 4. the Minister of Labour and Social Policy; 5. the Minister of Education and Science; 6. the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency; 7. the Director of the Food Chain Risk Assessment Centre; 8. the Chief State Health Inspector of the Republic of Bulgaria; 9. the President of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria; 10. one representative of the Rectors of Thracian University, Lesotechnic University, Agricultural Academy and the University of Food Technology; 11. one representative of the representative associations for consumer protection; 12. one representative of the branch organizations in the sectors of classification of economic activities (KIDs) as follows: (a) code 10.1 (b) code 10.2 "Manufacture and preservation of fish and other aquatic animals, excluding prepared meals; (c) code 10.3 s) Processing and preservation of fruit and vegetables, except prepared meals; (d) code 10.4 "Manufacture of vegetable and animal oils and fats; (e) code 10.5 (f) code 10.6 "Manufacture of mill products, starch and starch products; (g) code 10.7 "Producing bakery products and pasta; (h) Code 10.8 "Manufacture of other food products (sugar, cocoa, chocolate and sweets, processed tea and coffee, food spices and flavours, dietary foods, food supplements, etc.) (i) code 10.12. "Manufacture and processing of poultry meat; (k) Code 11.0) (l) code 11.05 and 11.06 (m) code 11.07 " Manufacture of soft drinks, mineral and other bottled waters; n) code 47.2 "Retail trade in specialized stores with food and drink; (o) Code 56.1. and 56.2 (4) The National Food Council shall elect from its composition two vice-presidents, one of whom shall represent the branch organizations. (5) The right to participate in the meetings of the National Council with an advisory vote when discussing matters of their competence shall have: 1. the Executive Director of the National Revenue Agency; 2. the Director of the Customs Agency'; 3. the Executive Director of the Executive Agency for the Promotion of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises; 4. the President of the National Statistical Institute; 5. the President of the Commission for Consumer Protection; 6. the Director of the National Centre for Public Health and Analysis; 7. the Executive Director of the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture; 8. the Director of the National Centre for Radiobiology and Radiation Protection; 9. The Director of the National Center of Infectious and Parasitic Diseases. (6) Branch organisations outside the sectors referred to in para. 3, p. 12 which meet the criteria under art. 120, para. 1, t. 2 and 3 shall have the right to participate in the National Council meetings with a consultative vote. (7) Associations of users meeting the criteria under art. 170, para. 1 of the Consumer Protection Act, have the right to participate in the meetings of the National Council with an advisory vote. (8) Any member of the National Council may delegate his or her obligation to participate in meetings of another member of the Council or to another person by means of an explicit request. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 122, which becomes Art. 118. Under art. 123 has a proposal of the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the MP Georgi Stankov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Article 123, which becomes Art. 119: Art. 119. The National Food Council shall: 1. make proposals and advise the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry in the conduct of state food policy; 2. at the request of the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, it shall express its opinion on draft regulations relating to the production, processing and/or distribution of foodstuffs; the opinion shall be an integral part of the draft regulation; 3. at the request of the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, he shall give an opinion on projects of framework positions and on issues relating to the production, processing and/or distribution of food placed or discussed by the European institutions; 4. establish industry standards and guidelines for good manufacturing, commercial and hygiene practices and for introducing, implementing and maintaining a permanent procedure or procedures based on the principles of the NASSR system in the production, processing and/or distribution of food, in accordance with art. 5 of Regulation (EC) No 852/2004 and Annexes II and III to Regulation (EC) No 853/2004; 5. adopt an annual report on the state of the food sector, including proposals for measures in the conduct of state food policy; 6. make proposals and advise the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry on matters related to: (a) attracting young professionals and strengthening the competences of those employed in the sector; (b) improving consumer awareness; 7. shall deliver an opinion on the annual agricultural report and on the Multi-annual National Control Plan in the food part prior to their adoption. Under art. 124 has a proposal from the MP Georgi Stankov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 124, which becomes Art. 120: Art. 120. (1) A branch organisation shall be permitted to participate in the meetings of the National Council, which shall meet the following criteria at the same time: 1. shall represent not less than 25 percent of the volume or value of the production, distribution or processing of the product or products concerned in the CID sectors; 2. it is registered not less than three years ago or is a universal successor or association in which branch organisations registered not less than three years ago are involved; 3. maintain a website and is a member of a national representative employers' organization and of the Growing Council for Tripartite Cooperation. (2) Branch organisations shall prove to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry compliance with the criteria laid down in para. 1 every two years. (3) Branch organisation "Member of the National Council, which is a member of a European branch organisation in the sector concerned, shall prove to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry its compliance with the criteria under para. 1 every 5 years. (4) Branch organisations meeting the criteria under para. 1 are national representative and are entered in a public register of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, which is published on the Ministry's website. Section II - Branch organisations of manufacturers or distributors of food. The Commission supports the text of the importer in principle and proposes the following version for the name of Section II: The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 125, which becomes art. 121: Art. 121. (1) Branch organisations of producers, processors and/or food distributors shall be established on the initiative of producers, processors and/or distributors in the sector concerned, registered under the Law on Non-Profit Legal Entities or under another law and shall carry out their activities in compliance with the requirements of the legislation, regulations and internal rules of organisations. (2) Branch organisations under para. 1 submit to the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry a list of their members and evidence of compliance with the criteria under art. 120, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. Under art. 126 has a proposal from the MP Georgi Stankov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Article 126, which becomes Art. 122: Art. 122. Branch organisations of producers, processors and/or food distributors shall be entitled to: 1. participate in the development of strategies, analyses, programmes and opinions for the development of the sector concerned and contribute to their implementation; 2. inform the competent authorities of infringements of the production, processing and/or distribution of food and receive information on the actions taken; 3. give opinions in the preparation of draft regulations relating to the production, processing and/or distribution of food; 4. develop industry standards and guidelines for good manufacturing, commercial and hygiene practices and provide them to the National Council for validation; 5. provide information in the development of projects of framework positions and on issues related to the production, processing and/or distribution of food placed or discussed by the European institutions. "Department III " Reconciliation Commission ". The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section III. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 127, which becomes Art. 123. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 128, which becomes art. 124: Art. 124. (1) The conciliation commission shall consist of a chairman appointed by order of the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests and members represented at the National Council of Ministers, proposed by industry organisations of producers, processors and/or food distributors. The list of proposed members shall be approved by the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry and published on the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. (2) A person with legal education and professional experience shall be appointed as Chair of the Reconciliation Commission not less than 10 years. (3) Persons with higher economic or legal education and persons who are specialists in the fields of food production, processing and/or distribution shall be offered to members of the Reconciliation Commission and who have professional experience not less than 5 years. (4) The conciliation commission shall conduct conciliation proceedings in a three-member Chamber consisting of the President and two members elected from the list under para. 1 of each of the parties to the dispute. Each Party shall submit a proposal for the election of a member of the Reconciliation Commission to its Chair. (5) Reconciliation proceedings may be carried out by the President or only by one member of the Reconciliation Committee where the parties to the dispute have reached written agreement on this. The written consent shall indicate the member of the Board of Reconciliation to conduct the proceedings and, where no agreement can be reached, the latter shall be appointed by its Chair. (6) No member of the committee may participate in the conciliation proceedings: 1. who is either a spouse in actual cohabitation, or a relative in a straight line, on a competitive line to the fourth degree or in a matchmaking to the third degree with any of the parties to the dispute; 2. who has been a representative or agent of a party to the dispute; 3. who has been in employment or civil relations with one of the parties to the dispute for the last three years; 4. for which there are other circumstances leading to reasonable doubt of its impartiality. (7) The President or a member of the committee shall be obliged to withdraw if there is a circumstance under para. 6. (8) The President and the members of the committee shall sign a declaration that there are no circumstances under para. 6 for each procedure in which they participate and make it available to the parties to the dispute. (9) Each of the parties to the dispute shall have the right to request the removal of the President or of a member of the committee where there is a circumstance under para. 6. (10) The President and the members of the committee shall not be entitled to disclose any business or professional secrecy which has become known to them in connection with the performance of their duties.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u64	So far, Mrs. Dimova. Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u65	Madam President, honourable Members! What I would like to present to you is an objection to the establishment of the National Food Council and the section of the Branch organisations. It so happens that in almost all laws we have some council that is an advisory body to the Minister of Agriculture, and the functions and scope of its activities are different according to what the bill is or what it should decide with the Minister of Agriculture and Food. In this case, the National Food Council is proposed, which includes 14 offices and institutions under the hat of the Minister of Agriculture and Food. Apart from that, branch organizations are included and are described by codes of economic activity. With regard to the requirements for industry organizations.. for 25% of the turnover or value of the production.. means that this National Food Council will be of 90. 100 representatives who will give opinions to the Minister on topics which can now give such opinions. For example, discussion of bills, conduct of state policy in the form of consultations, evaluation of the agricultural report. These are all activities that can be in any direction of the activities of these branch organisations, can be dealt with directly with the Minister of Agriculture and other representatives of the institution, so for us this structure is absolutely meaningless. It is difficult to manage any process with such a broad representation. The second topic on which we have objections is for industry organizations. Some of the colleagues may recall that a third or fourth parliament is trying to have a Law on Branch Organizations to know what this is and what it is when it is presented nationally. Unfortunately, there is no such law, and therefore we are forced to determine which is a nationally represented branch organization different in the various laws that are adopted in the National Assembly. For example, the Tobacco and Tobacco Act has an Advisory Board and a nationally represented organisation, those who produce tobacco by more than 50% of its value or more than 30% of the members participating in the relevant branch organisation. Soon we adopted the Oil Rose Act and there is an Advisory Council there, but there is no requirement whatsoever which representative organisation is to be able to participate in this Advisory Council. Now here we say that nationally represented are those who have not less than 25% of the turnover of production, distribution and processing. Firstly, I find it extremely difficult to determine exactly how the Minister of Agriculture will make the assessment which of the branch organizations has 25% and can be presented nationally. This means that in each of the structures, such as meat and meat products, we will have four such organisations, and for milk and dairy products we will have five organisations. They will all be nationally represented, that is, the criteria are not very clear, and their application will require an extremely great effort from the administration to assess how much they can fit into the requirements for such organisations. Our other objection is that we are talking about branch organizations, but for example, this National Council will not enter the Vine House because it is an association between producers and processors. The chambers are not defined at all as part of this Advisory Council and that they are truly nationally represented and by the fact that they cover the whole chain from production to processing and also realization. From this point of view, with this bill, there was clearly a desire to please those organisations that need a tribune, to work, to speak, but should not in each of the bills make exceptions and create prerequisites for mixed interpretations, and also for activities that, as a rule, every branch organisation has, but we write it in the law. [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u66	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u67	I am impressed with something very important for industry organizations.. writes what they will do and almost that they will provide or inform the Ministry of bad manufacturing practices. I have not heard of a branch organisation that does not protect its members is not even written as a requirement for branch organizations, but will provide information about incorrect practices. This means that branch organisations can really work against each other only and only have a field of expression and create prerequisites for what is proposed, not to consider, accept, develop as advisory activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u68	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. Any other speeches? - What's the line? I don't see any lines, I don't see any other speeches. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the name of Chapter 7, supported by the Commission; the text of the importer on the name of Section I; the version of art. 121, which becomes Art. 117 on the Commission Report; the text of the importer for art. 122, which becomes 118; the wording of Articles 123, 124, which become 119 and 120 respectively under the Commission Report; the wording of the name of Section II; the wording of Articles 125 and 126, which become 121 and 122 respectively under the Commission Report; the text of the importer for the name of Section III; the text of the importer for art. 127, which becomes Art. Article 123; version of Art. 123 Art. 128, which becomes art. 124 on the Commission report. Vote 95 MPs: for 76, against none, abstention 19. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u69	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 129, which becomes Art. 125: Art. 125. (1) The conciliation proceedings shall be initiated on the basis of a written objection by a business operator. (2) The opposition shall state the facts and circumstances of the dispute, the specific requests as well as the elected member of the Reconciliation Commission from the list referred to in art. 124, para. 1. All documents necessary to clarify the subject matter of the dispute shall be annexed to the opposition. (3) No anonymous objections shall be dealt with, objections to a dispute for which there has been a final conciliation proceedings of the conciliation commission, or the dispute shall be referred to a judicial authority. (4) Final conciliation proceedings may be reviewed where new facts and circumstances are concerned and the dispute is not referred to a judicial settlement or in connection with the implementation of an agreement reached between the parties to the dispute. (5) Where the opposition is incomplete, unclear or missing sufficient documents, the conciliation committee shall leave the opposition motionless, inform the sender and shall set a 14-day period for the removal of the deficiency. (6) The objection shall be sent to the persons concerned who shall submit observations and evidence within 14 days of receipt. (7) Within one month of the initiation of the conciliation proceedings, the Chair of the Commission shall determine the day, time and place for the meeting and shall send to the parties to the dispute an invitation to participate. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 130, which becomes Art. 126: Art. 126. (1) The conciliation committee shall examine the dispute in open session and may request additional documents, information or evidence from the parties if necessary. (2) At the request of the parties to the proceedings, the Reconciliation Commission may draw persons of interest to clarify the dispute. (3) All expenses under para. 1 and 2 are at the expense of the parties to the proceedings. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 131, which becomes Art. 127: Art. 127. (1) The conciliation proceedings shall end with the conclusion of a written agreement between the Parties. The Agreement shall be drawn up by the parties to the dispute within three months of the initiation of the conciliation proceedings and shall be submitted to the approval committee. (2) The proceedings shall be terminated where: 1. The parties shall not submit a written agreement within the term under para. 1, or 2. the agreement has not been approved by the Commission within 20 days of its submission. "Chapter 8" "Aministically penal provisions." The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Eight. Under art. 132 there is a proposal of the MP Andrian Raykov and a group of MPs: The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 132, which becomes Art. 128: Art. 128. (1) A fine or a penalty of 2000 to 4000 BGN shall be imposed, if not subject to a more severe penalty, to a person who: 1. violate the provision of Art. 1. 4, para. 1; 2. in violation of Article 2. For food packaging materials and articles intended to come into contact with food, including active and intelligent materials and articles intended to come into contact with or use or include unauthorised substances in their production; 3. carry out activity without being entered in the register under art. 24, para. 1; 4. carry out an activity which is not listed in the register under art. 24, para. 1 is respectively not indicated in the certificate of approval of the site; 5. place on the market bottled natural mineral, spring or table water in violation of art. 65 or 66; 6. for the first time on the market in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria food intended for infants and young children, foods for special medical purposes and foods in which vitamins, minerals and certain other substances in violation of art. 76; 7. use or moisture in food additives, enzymes and flavourings in violation of art. 79, para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 8. perform the processing of foods with ionizing radiations in violation of Article 8. 88 and 89; 9. pack foods in packages that carry their constituents in their food in quantities presenting a danger to human health resulting in unacceptable changes in the composition of the food or the deterioration of its endocrine characteristics; 10. place on the market smoke flavourings used or intended for use in or on foods in violation of art. 92 and 93; 11. place on the market a new food in violation of Article 11. 94; 12. placed on the market food in breach of the requirements of Council Regulation (EEC) No 315/93 of 8 February 1993 laying down Community procedures for contaminants in foodstuffs; 13. place on the market food in breach of the requirements of Council Regulation (Euratom) 2016/52 of 15 January 2016 establishing maximum levels of radioactive contamination of food and feed following a nuclear accident or any other case of radiation emergency and repealing Regulation (Euratom) No 3954/87 and Commission Regulations (Euratom) No 944/89 and (Euratom) No 770/90 (OB, L 13/2 of 20 January 2016.) 14. knowingly replace, add, season, or falsely present food, food ingredient or food packaging, and present false or misleading consumer nutrition or health claims for food; 15. carry out food banking activities in violation of the provisions of Chapter Four. (2) To a business operator who has committed an infringement under para. 1, a fine or penalty of 4,000 to 6000 BGN is imposed........................................................................................................ The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 133, which becomes Art. 129. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 134, which becomes art. 130: Art. 130. (1) A fine or a penalty of 1000 to 2000 BGN shall be imposed, if not subject to a more severe penalty, to a person who: 1. direct supplies of primary products and/or manufactures, processes or processes such in violation of art. 37.. 40; 2. use generic food indications in violation of the requirements of Regulation (EU) No 907/2013; 3. transport of food with vehicles in violation of art. 50; 4. put on the market for the first time in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria a food supplement or food intended for use in intensive muscle load, in violation of art. 79; 5. allow the operation of an establishment for production, processing and/or distribution by persons who do not possess the relevant education or qualification. (2) To a business operator who has committed an infringement under para. 1 or violate the prohibition under art. 22, a fine or penalty of 2000 to 3000 BGN is imposed The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 135, which becomes art. 131: Art. 131. (1) A fine or a penalty of 2000 to 4000 BGN shall be imposed, if not subject to a more severe penalty, to a person who: 1. violated provisions of Regulation No 1169/2011 on the provision of food information to consumers; 2. advertise and present foods using nutrition and health claims not included in the list under art. 13 or 14 of Regulation (EC) No 1924/2006; 3. store foods in violation of the requirements, conditions and information specified by the manufacturer; 4. does not apply and does not maintain a permanent procedure or procedures in accordance with art. 5 of Regulation (EC) No 852/2004 and Annexes II and III to Regulation (EC) No 853/2004; 5. does not comply with the traceability requirements under art. 18 of Regulation (EC) No 178/2002; 6. does not comply with the requirements for the maintenance of a traceability system under Regulation (EC) No 7. in carrying out its activity does not comply with the hygiene requirements defined by the regulations under art. 6 and 7; 8. change the composition or name of the food additive/food placed on the market intended for use in intensive muscle load recorded in the register under art. 24, para. 1; 9. conduct trade in food from a distance in violation of art. 61.. 65; 10. marketing food in violation of Article 10. 17, para. 2... 4.............................................................. (2) To a business operator who has committed an infringement under para. 1 is imposed a fine or penalty of 4,000 to 6000 BGN The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 136, which becomes art. 132: Art. 132. (1) It shall be punished with a fine from 2000 to 4000 BGN, if it is not subject to a more severe punishment, a person who, in violation of this law and the regulations governing its application: 1. fail to comply with an obligation of notification, to provide access, to provide the necessary documents and data to the control authorities or to prevent the performance of their duties, including sampling; 2. did not execute an order of an official issued within the limits of his competence. (2) To a business operator who has committed an infringement under para. 1 is imposed a fine or penalty of 4,000 to 6000 BGN Under art. 137 has a proposal from the MP Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 137, which becomes Art. 133: Art. 133. It shall be punished with a fine from 500 to 1500 BGN, if it is not subject to more severe punishment, an official who: 1. agree, approve or issue a document in violation of this law and its implementing regulations; 2. for coordination, approval or issue of documents shall put as conditions or require documents which are not provided for by this law, by the regulations governing its application or by any other regulatory act. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 138, which becomes Art. 134. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 139, which becomes art. 135: Art. 135. Where a person commits a breach of that law or its implementing regulations within three years of the entry into force of a criminal order issued for the same type of infringement, the fine or penalty shall be tripled. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 140, which becomes Art. 136: Art. 136. For systematic infringements of this law and its implementing regulations, the fine or penalty payment shall be fivefold the highest fine or penalty awarded. Under art. 141 has a proposal of the MP Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 141, which becomes Art. 137. Under art. 142 has a proposal of the MP Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 142, which becomes Art. 138: Art. 138. (1) The infringements of this law and its implementing regulations shall be established by acts of: 1. inspectors of the Regional Food Safety Directorates carrying out official controls; 2. state health inspectors within the meaning of the Health Act carrying out official food controls; 3. civil servants of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, authorised by the Minister; 4. civil servants of the Ministry of Health, authorised by the Minister. (2) The persons under para. 1, t. 1 shall be entitled to check road vehicles carrying food in the territory of the relevant Regional Food Safety Directorate, including the right to access all documents relating to the driving vehicle and the transport carried out. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 143, which becomes Art. 139: Art. 139. Criminal decrees under this law and by its implementing regulations shall be issued by: 1. the directors of the Regional Food Safety Directorates for infringements established by the persons referred to in art. 138, para. 1, t. 1; 2. the directors of the regional health inspections for infringements established by the persons referred to in art. 138, para. 1, t. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 3. The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry for violations established by the persons under art. 138, para. 1, t. 3; 4. Minister of Health for violations established by the persons under art. 138, para. 1, t. 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 144, which becomes Art. 140.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u70	Statements? I can't see. I shall vote on: the version of Articles 129, 130 and 131, which shall become Articles 125, 126 and 127 respectively under the Commission Report; the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Eight; the version of art. 132, which becomes Art. 128; the import text for art. 133, which becomes Art. 129; the version of Articles 134, 135, 136 and 137 which become Articles 130, 131, 132 and 133 respectively under the Commission Report; the text of the importer for art. Art. 138, which becomes Art. 134; the version of Articles 139 and 140, which become Articles 135 and 136 respectively under the Commission Report; the text of the importer for art. Art. 141, which becomes respectively art. 137; the version of Articles 142 and 143 which become Articles 138 and 139 respectively under the Commission Report; and the text of the importer for art. 144, which becomes Art. 140. Vote 89 MPs: for 67, against none, abstention 22. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u71	"Additional provision'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. According to § 1, there is a proposal of the MP Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 2 and c. 1 The proposal has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Georgi Stankov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... For the 1. The Administrative Region is an area within the meaning of the Law on the Administrative and Territorial Device of the Republic of Bulgaria. 2. "Generative' is a designation (name) traditionally used to indicate the peculiarity of a class of food or drink that could have an effect on human health and for which approval has been obtained by the European Commission under Regulation (EU) No 907/2013. 3. "Gruby violations" are violations of the requirements of this law or of the regulations on its implementation, leading to immediate danger to the health of people, animals, pollution of the environment or material damage of more than 50 000 BGN. 4. The food groups shall be food combined on the basis of their origin and composition, as follows: (a) milk, milk products; (b) milk analogues. (c) imitation products containing milk in their composition; (c) meat and meat products; (d) fish, fishery products and other seafood; (e) eggs and egg products; (f) oils and fats; (g) cereals and cereal-based foods; h) bakery; (i) boiling; k) vegetables raw, preserved, frozen, dried, fermented, vegetable juices; (l) Fruits of fresh, frozen, dried, preserved, in the form of nectars and fruit juices, jams, marmalades, jelly and compotes; (m) nuts and oil seeds; (n) sugar, sugar and chocolate products, honey, table sweeteners; (o) salts, spices and forgery products; (p) soft drinks; (q) bottled natural mineral, spring and table waters; c) beer; (t) wine; (u) high-alcoholic beverages; (f) coffee, tea, cocoa; (x) Canned goods; (c) ready-to-eat culinary products; (h) additives, enzymes and food flavourings; (h) food additives; (k) special-purpose foods which, due to their specific composition or production, are clearly distinguished from food for normal consumption; (u) other foods....mayones, sauces, dry soups and broths, spreads, yeasts, etc. 5. "Producing, processing and/or distribution' is a separate operation carried out on foods that falls within the scope of one of the production, processing and/or distribution stages, but can be carried out on its own at a time or place. 6. The distribution of food is each stage of food distribution such as storage, transport, trade, import and export of food. 7. A service provider is a person who performs any service to the information society, i.e. any service normally provided for remuneration, at a distance, by electronic means and at the individual request of the recipient of the service. 8. "Local activity' is the supply of food of animal origin from a retail outlet to other retail outlets located in the administrative area at the location of the site and neighbouring administrative areas. 9. It is a danger in which food consumption can cause serious harm to health or death in humans or animals. 10. The entity is each unit in which an entrepreneurial activity is carried out for profit or not related to any stage of the production, processing and/or distribution of food and includes: land (including land under water) with or without buildings, enterprise, vehicle (including boat, ship, aircraft, railway wagon or other); mobile, temporary, movable or open object. 11. The activity concerned is the supply of food of animal origin to other retail outlets only from a retail outlet to which users, tenants or owners are farmers or their associations, and the food is obtained only from processing and/or processing of primary products of animal origin produced in its own primary food production establishment. 12. A repeated infringement is the infringement committed within one year of the entry into force of the criminal decree imposing a penalty for the same by type of infringement. 13. The food group is derived from the food group in question, united on the basis of species, identity in production technology and/or storage conditions. 14. The subterranean water body is a concept within the meaning of § 1, t. 61 of the additional provisions of the Water Act. 15. It is a system that includes good manufacturing and hygiene practices and procedures based on the principles of the Hazard Analysis System and Critical Control Points (NASR) developed by the food business operator to ensure that food, primary production sites and food production sites, processing and/or distribution, including the activities they carry out, meet the regulatory requirements. 16. There are three or more violations of the requirements of the law and its implementing regulations for which administrative penalties have been imposed on the person with criminal decrees entered into force. 17. In order to ensure the proper functioning of the control bodies, it is necessary to ensure that the control authorities are able to carry out their activities twice or more times within a calendar year. 18. A country-wide activity is the use of not more than 40% of the primary products of animal origin produced and their supply from the retail outlet to other retail outlets. 19. The third country is a country which is not a member of the European Union or a country which is a party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area. 20. Foods intended for use in intensive muscle load are foods intended to meet the specific nutritional needs of the body in intensive muscle activity used according to the manufacturer's instructions for use. 21. Food supplements are foods intended to supplement a normal diet and which are concentrated sources of vitamins and minerals or other substances with nutritional or physiological effects, used alone or in combination, which are placed on the market in dosed forms such as capsules, tablets, pills and the like, of powder, ampoules of liquid and similar liquid or powder forms, intended to be taken in pre-dosed small quantities.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u72	Statements, coworkers? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the name of the section of the Additional Provisions and the version of § 1 of the Commission Report. Vote 91 MPs: for 86, against none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Belova has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u73	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, I am proposing an extension of working time until this law is adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u74	Thank you, dear Mrs. Belova. Please vote on the procedure so made. Colleagues, there are very few paragraphs left, so it won't be very long after 2:00, which will extend it. Vote 91 MPs: 84, against 4, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u75	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. The administrative and licensing procedures and certification procedures started and not concluded until the entry into force of this law are completed in the current order. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ The procedures for putting food-producing and food-trade establishments into operation started and not completed until the entry into force of this law are completed in the current order. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5: .................................................................................. The certificates issued until the entry into force of this law for registration of food-producing establishments shall remain valid for the period for which they were issued. Under § 6 there is a proposal from the MP Andrian Raykov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. A proposal from the National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6: ........................................................... Within 6 months of the entry into force of this Act, the Minister of Health shall officially recognise and enter into the relevant list under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 all natural mineral and spring waters offered on the market at the date of promulgation of the law. The marketing of a particular product shall be established by checks by the competent authorities for the registration of business operators. Commercial names used for natural mineral and spring waters before the date of promulgation of the law may be used by business operators and after that date, provided that the labels contain information about the place of operation and the name of the site, respectively the subterranean water body. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7: .................................................... Within three months of the entry into force of this law, persons engaged in trade in food at a distance shall comply with the requirements of Section IV of Chapter Two. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 8 be rejected. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9, which shall become § 8: ...................................................................................(1) The regulations governing the application of this law shall be adopted, respectively, within 6 months of its entry into force. (2) The tariff referred to in art. 3, para. 4 of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency Act is brought into line with this law within three months of its entry into force. (3) Until the adoption, respectively the issue of the acts under para. 1 The regulations on the application of the repealed Food Act shall apply to the extent that they do not conflict with that law. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer for § 10 but proposes to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic position in § 8. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer for § 11, but proposes to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic position in § 8. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12, which shall become § 9: ..................................................... (1) The samples of documents under this Law shall be approved by the relevant competent authorities within the limits of their competence within two months of its entry into force. (2) The approved templates shall be published on the website of the competent authority concerned. Under Paragraph 13, there is a proposal from the MP Andrian Raykov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13, which shall become § 10: ..................................................... In the Act on Veterinary Practice (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) c. 4 after the word "letters" shall be added by electronic means through the Integrated Information System of BABBH under art. 51, para. the following point is inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1): (b) c. 4a after the word "letters" is added by electronic means through the Integrated Information System of BABBH under art. 51, para. the following point is inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1): (c) c. 5 after the word "letters" shall be added by electronic means through the Integrated Information System of BABBH under art. 51, para. the following point is inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1): (d) c. 6 after the word "letters" shall be added by electronic means through the Integrated Information System of BABBH under art. 51, para. the following point is inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1): (e) c. 7 after the word "letters" shall be added by electronic means through the Integrated Information System of BABBH under art. 51, para. 3.................................................................................. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 1 sentence third after the word "Studies', the "Studies' shall be added as well as the refusal of receipt of an order or in the event of failure to comply with the order within 10 working days. (b) in para. 7 after the words "al." In addition, paragraph 1 (b) is replaced by the following: the following point is inserted after point (a) (i) of (c) in para. 8 the figure 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 151, t. 1 after the words............................................................................................ Art. 139a, Art. 139b The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 11. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 15, which shall become § 12: ................................................................................... In the Law on Value Added Tax (prom., DV. No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6, (a) in letter (b) the words (c) The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 4 (b) in the letter "in" the words "art." 37 m, para. The information referred to in paragraph 1 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official (c) in point (d) the words "art. 37 m, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 96, para. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 39, p. 7 the words "sevenu" shall be replaced by "sixteen." 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 170, para. 4 words - 37z, para. 1, t. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation and for the implementation of 4. In § 1 of the additional provisions: (a) c. 9a The words "chl." 37 m, para. The information referred to in paragraph 1 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European (b) c. 9b the words "art." 37p, para. 4s are replaced by the row of chapter fours. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16, which shall become § 13. The Commission proposes to create new § 14-17 and § 18: ......... 14......................................................................... In the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 229a, para. 1 words.............................................................................. 14, para. the following point is inserted after point (c) of Article 4 (1): 24, para. 1.................................................................................. § 15. In the Law on Implementation of the Common Organisation of the Markets in Agricultural Products of the European Union (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 25a, para. 1 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 55d, para. 1 and 3 words............................................................................................... The following points are inserted after point (c) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009: 26.................................................................................. 246 of the Act on animal health is replaced by Art. 55 of the Food Act. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 65, para. 3 words.............................................................................. The § 16. In the Beekeeping Act (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 30 words.............................................................................. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the § 17. In the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 50, para. 1, t. 2 words.............................................................................. 246 of the Act on animal health is replaced by Art. 55 of the Food Act. § 18. In the Law on Stock Exchanges and Trades (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 3c, para. 1 words.............................................................................. The 2. In § 2 of the additional provisions of point (c) 8 the words "the Food Act' are replaced by "Regulation (EC) No 178/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 January 2002 laying down the general principles and requirements of food law, establishing the European Food Safety Authority and laying down procedures in matters of food safety'. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 17, which shall become § 19: "Seriously, I'm The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal with the exception of the provision of art. 76, para. 2, p. 2 which shall enter into force from 22 February 2021
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Dimova. Statements, coworkers? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for the name of the subdivision; the text of the importer for § 2; the version of § 3, 4 and 5 of the Commission Report; the version of § 6 and 7 of the Commission Report; the rejection of § 8; the version of § 9 which becomes § 8 of the Commission Report; the rejection of § 10; the rejection of § 11; the version of § 12 and 13 which becomes § 9 and 10 of the Commission Report respectively; the wording of the importer for § 14, which becomes § 11; the version of § 15 which becomes § 12 of the Commission Report; the text of the importer for § 16 which becomes § 13; the creation of new paragraphs 14 to 17 including § 18 respectively; and the version of § 17 which becomes § 19 of the Commission Report. They voted 93 MPs: 92, none, abstention 1. The proposal is accepted, and with this the Law at second reading. Mrs. Belova, come in for a few closing words.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u77	Madam President, allow me to thank all my colleagues for their admission. The unanimous adoption of this law has shown that when we put aside our political differences, we work expertly and achieve such good results. Once again, thank you all for your support. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-27.u78	Thank you. Colleagues, the time for today's plenary day is up. Tomorrow's regular sitting Thursday, 28 May 2020 We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
