ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u1	Good afternoon, fellow Members. Please, registration mode. By the same procedure as yesterday, I will call by name the colleagues who are here with us online so they can register as well. I'll start with Mr. Alexander Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u2	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u3	Anna Alexandrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u4	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u5	Anna Alexandrova is not visible, there is a problem with the camera, but she is here. Georgi Kolev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u6	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u7	Mr. Apostolov has a problem, we'll turn it on later. Konstantin Popov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u8	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u9	Mitko Polychronov? Loud, Mr. Polychronov, let's hear it. Microphone on, Mr. Polychronov, so we can hear.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u10	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u11	Mladen Shishkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u12	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u13	Plamen Nunev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u14	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u15	Rosen Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u16	Here. We have 8 colleagues registered online, and 121 in the room. 129 MPs are registered. There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] Please remain on-line colleagues to take part in the vote on the first item. Colleagues, to give information, here is the Minister of Health Professor Konstantin Angelov. Mr. Secretary, come in. Please, the Quaestors, invite the Minister to brief us on the situation in the country! [[Reply from Vice-President Emil Hristov.]] We don't invite anyone anymore. Those who want to work are in the gym. We can't invite, after all, Mr. Hristov, we're at work. We can't ask anyone to come to work. It's not a wedding. Please invite the Minister. Here you are, Mr. Secretary. The Minister will give us information about the objective situation with the COVID-19. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u17	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In response to the pandemic situation, the Ministry of Health initiated a number of actions, including regulatory changes, in order to establish an organisation to ensure the treatment of those affected and to limit the spread of the disease.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In view of the danger to the health of the nation, a number of rapid and targeted measures have had to be taken to reshape the health system, especially hospital care facilities. The reorganization of the health system is the biggest challenge faced by the team of the Ministry of Health and our country as a whole, and the current situation for the rapid development of the epidemic requires actions whose timely and effective implementation is key to preserving the life and health of the nation. For the mobilisation of hospital capacity in the country at the beginning of the epidemic in March, hospitals were designated for treatment and monitoring of patients with COVID-19 with their respective structures to ensure adequate medical care is provided to those affected by the epidemic. In order to limit the exposure of the virus, planned operations, child and female consultations, preventive examinations, vaccinations and other medical services that do not require urgent treatment were cancelled. During the summer months it was developed and submitted to the Committee on Health to the National Assembly A plan for the organisation of the work and financing of medical institutions in the event of an emergency epidemic situation prepared in accordance with current recommendations and guidelines of the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control and of the World Health Organization for Disease Supervision and Control. The main objective of this plan is to define operational preparedness procedures depending on the development of the COVID-19 epidemic and to establish an adequate organisation for timely action to limit the effects of COVID-19 aimed at: timely detection and isolation of cases of COVID-19, tracking and identification of contact points; laboratory diagnostics of COVID-19; effective response to an explosion by COVID-19; providing constant reliable and up-to-date information to society on the course of influenza epidemic and the measures taken; coordinating a response at national and regional level; implementing timely and appropriate anti-epidemic measures to reduce the transmission of the agent and control of sporadic cases; preparing the health system to reduce the COVID-19-related mortality; maintaining basic health services and protection of health workers; a plan for the continuity of the functioning of basic services and public functions. By order of the Minister of Health of July, it was entrusted to the directors of RGI to establish an organisation and coordinate actions by region, setting out the minimum number of hospital beds to be maintained in full readiness for admission of patients with COVID-19 taking into account the dynamics and spread of morbidity in the following scenarios: Scenario 1: Situation with limited local distribution in the average daily number of newly registered cases in the last seven days below 150, with hospital care facilities in normal working mode and ready to receive patients. Scenario 2: Situation in the average daily number of newly registered cases between 150 and 350, defining single structures in several treatment facilities for patients with coronavirus, such as Infectious Diseases, Internal Diseases and so on. Scenario 3: Situation with persistent transmission of infection in the average daily number of newly registered cases above 350 in the last seven days, increasing the number of medical establishments involved with separate structures in the care of patients with coronavirus infection. These scenarios are at a 14-day morbidity rate of up to 150 per 100,000 population. Scenario 4: Includes the commitment of the entire health system to rapidly increase the spread of infection. The main task in this phase is still to mitigate the impact of the epidemic on the population and to proceed to the overall mobilisation of the potential for the necessary assistance to each patient in need. In this scenario, three directions of behaviour have been developed: Level one: In a 14-day morbidity rate of over 150 per 100 000 population, a minimum of 10% of the bed fund for treatment of patients with coronavirus infection is determined for all hospitals. Triage points are organized in front of the medical institutions for examination, diagnosis, evaluation and sorting of incoming patients. Second level: In 14-day infection, over 300 per 100,000 population increases hospital capacity to treat patients with CIVID-19. At national level, a minimum of 20% of the bed capacity of all medical establishments shall be determined and a minimum of 50% of their bed capacity for treatment of infected patients with COVID-19 shall be determined. At this stage, there is also an active involvement of general practitioners and specialized outpatient assistance both for examination, diagnosis, evaluation and sorting of patients and for the follow-up of uncomplicated cases in home isolation. Third level: In 14-day infection, over 600 per 100 000 population, which the country has not reached at present, the number of persons in need of hospitalization is sharply increased, which provides for the definition of hospitals to determine their full bed capacity 100% for the treatment of infected patients. For the treatment of patients who are not infected, multi-profile hospitals, so-called clean hospitals, are defined. This ensures the availability of all profile specialities in the respective administrative unit. In response to the pandemic situation in each of the scenarios described above, a number of anti-epidemic measures have been introduced in stages and to varying degrees on a proposal from the Chief State Health Inspector. The introduction of the measures may take place on a territorial or national basis, according to the level of the 14-day incidence of 100 000 population, the intensity of the epidemic spread of COVID-19 by districts, the weekly law duration of the tests, the tendency to increase the number of individuals with COVID-19 who require treatment in a hospital care facility, as well as patients who need intensive care and resuscitation due to deterioration of their health status and complications resulting from the new coronavirus. As regards indirect planned measures relating to support and stimulation of deficit medical staff, applications for European funding shall be prepared in the following directions: Investment in medical education. For example, at the last government meeting, the specialty of health care professionals in higher schools and in medical colleges in particular became a priority course, which means that all higher schools that reveal additional numbers for the training of nurses and healthcare professionals will receive additional funding, and respectively students will receive additional funds to the scholarships until they reach the so-called double scholarships. Activity at all levels of morbidity. The RGIs continue to carry out their main role in coordinating the activities of providing hospital beds for the treatment of patients with or without coronavirus infection, depending on the particular need in the area. The activities of emergency medical centres and communication with medical institutions shall be assisted and coordinated by intentionally established local coordination centres, taking into account the population density in the area concerned. In case of necessity, the establishment of a National Coordination Centre is also envisaged for which, apart from the activities described above at national level, implementation of communication activities and close cooperation with all structures of the local and state administration involved in combating COVID-19 is envisaged. As of 12 November 2020, coronavirus confirmed cases were 87,311, of which 58,699 were active. The treated subjects were 26,714. Patients with proven coronavirus infection in hospital care facilities are currently 4478, of which 276 are located in intensive structures. The largest share of those affected by the coronavirus of individuals in Bulgaria in the most active age groups between 30 and 69 years of age. According to the National Information System for COVID-19, the infected in Bulgaria medical specialists are 3459, with 1275 of them established in doctors, 1094 in nurses, 449 in medics, 86 in paramedics, 555 in other medical personnel. Of all medics 121 are hospitalized and 9 are in an intensive sector. According to data from the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control as at 11 November 2020. The 14-day incidence of COVID-19 in Bulgaria is 580.93 per 100,000 population, which gives us 14th place in the European Union, while in the Czech Republic this indicator is 1370 per 100 thousand of the population, Luxembourg is 1359 per 100 thousand, Belgium is 1185 per 100 thousand, Liechtenstein With regard to the registered deaths of COVID-19 in the 11th fourteen-day mortality rate in the country is 9.86 per cent, which determines the country's seventh place among the countries in the European Union. Financing of measures and activities by source. Medical facilities for hospital care. By amending Regulation No 3 of medical activities outside the scope of the Health Insurance Act, for which the Ministry of Health subsidises medical institutions and for the criteria and order for subsidising medical institutions, it was established that clinics and wards of infectious diseases in state and municipal hospitals are subsidised to maintain readiness for medical care in cases of epidemic spread of infectious diseases. Such a subsidy may also be granted to other hospitals with revealed clinics and wards of infectious diseases during the period of declared emergency or declared emergency. In this respect, additional funds of 9 million have been made available under the budget of the Ministry of Health for 2020. and 600,000 to subsidize state and municipal medical facilities. It is planned to finance nearly 1200 beds in this order. In relation to the evolution of morbidity and the increased number of newly infected individuals with COVID-19, reaching the levels of scenario four, second level, a reorganization of the health system shall be undertaken by providing additional opportunities for the hospital system to respond to the growing needs of the population of medical diagnosis and treatment. In line with the plan developed by the Ministry of Health, the Council of Ministers Decree No 370 of 10 November 2020 approved the financing of measures, providing for funds of 50 million. lv. be provided to hospital care facilities that will provide more than 50% of their bedside capacity for the treatment of patients with coronavirus infection. The National Health Fund has created the necessary conditions for financial support for medical aid contractors for the period of emergency and situation. The National Health Insurance Fund shall conclude contracts with medical institutions designated by the Minister of Health for the implementation of tests of a polymeric chain reaction to prove COVID-19. For the period August 1st, 30th of November 2020, the NHIF paid outpatient aid performers at new increased prices. For the period August 1st " 31st December NHIF increased by 20 BGN. the price of all clinical pathways and the price of the 104th clinical trail at 120 BGN. In the information system of the NHIF was created structure 77.00 structure with beds for the treatment of patients with COVID-19 in order to track those patients who have entered the hospital. Labs and testing. In support of the capacity of the laboratories, the Ministry of Health provided additional funds on the R & D budget of 7 million. lv. for the purchase of reagents for PCR tests to demonstrate COVID-19. Equipment necessary for the production of reconvalescent plasma from covid-19 patients through plasma feresis and whole blood are provided for the needs of the National Centre for Transfusion Hematology. In addition, funds of 15 million have been made available. lv. under the budget of the Ministry of Health for 2020, which will ensure the financing of the purchase of rapid antigen tests to be provided to the RGIs to ensure the needs of emergency care centres, emergency services subsidiaries, COID units in the SOCs, as well as the tests of people with symptoms who have gone to check the newly opened hospitals' testing stations. Motivation of the staff. The Ministry of Health has taken action to increase the remuneration of the staff of administrations at the Ministry of Health who are entrusted with activities to control the pandemic by the COVID-19, including first-line employees, whose duties include service and control of the terrain with direct contact of others. For this purpose, additional budget resources of 10 million have been provided. 526 thousand. £900. Additional means of overtime are provided, provision of holidays and work for staff of RZI, CSMP, National Centre for Infectious and Parasitic Diseases. The Ministry of Health entered into an administrative grant contract in implementation of the project "Supporting of workers in the health system under threat to society, public health, from COVID-19, funded under the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development', totaling 120 million. lv. The net additional remuneration to be received by each of the persons working on the first line to combat the coronavirus is BGN 1000. As of 11 November 2020, contracts were concluded with 135 hospital care facilities and 34 laboratories to carry out laboratory confirmation of COVID-19. Contracts with over 200 hospitals in the country are to be concluded. Personal protective equipment and equipment. The Ministry of Health has taken action to prevent the spread of COVID-19 and its treatment by providing means for the purchase of protective equipment for COVID-19, thermal cameras, disinfection systems and other equipment. For this purpose, additional funds are approved under the budget of the Ministry of Health for 2020 amounting to 7 million. lv. With the means, following an analysis of the epidemiological situation and needs, medical devices and personal protective equipment are to be purchased as follows: 1 million. $100,000. surgical masks, single protective jumpsuits, 25 thousand, 14 million gloves, 1 million calsuns, 67 thousand liters of alcohol, 90 thousand liters of disinfectant. On the basis of the personal protective equipment spent by the medical establishments and RZI for September 2020, it is estimated that the quantities to be purchased by the Ministry of Health will secure the system for at least six months. The Ministry of Health implements a project funded by the Operational Programme "Regions in Growth." The total budget of the project is 40 million. lv. Currently, the project has purchased lung ventilation apparatus and other medical supplies, equipment, personal protective equipment needed to secure the entire system. Medicinal products. In view of the exceptional circumstances in the context of a complicated epidemic situation by COVID-19 and in order to prevent and protect the health of patients, timely provision of the medicinal product is required. The Ministry of Health carried out an analysis of the consumption of the available quantities of the product and the estimated quantities needed for the medical establishments. In this regard and on the basis of the signed framework contract between the European Commission and Gilead regions, the Ministry of Health has taken action to finance the provision of the needs of the medicinal product, with additional appropriations approved under the 2020 and 2021 budget at the amount of 26 million. 400,000. lv. needed for the purchase of 32 593 vials. By his own orders, the Minister of Health has ordered all hospitals to create conditions for hospitalization of patients infected with COVID-19 in wards where patients can be treated in isolation conditions, as it may often be necessary, for example, emergency surgical treatment in an infected patient, giving birth to a patient infected with a coronavirus infection. The different areas of the country require different approaches for determining the basic health services and engaging a competent health system for maintaining these services, as a balance is needed between the benefits of carrying out these specific activities and the risks posed to the transmission of the coronavirus. Secured by medical professionals. There are 125 549 people working on a basic employment contract in healthcare establishments and health establishments in the country as of 31 December 2019. The number of practitioners of a basic employment contract is 26 612, which is a 0.2% reduction compared to the previous year 2018, with their number then being 26 667. The insurance with doctors in 2019 increased to 42.6 to 10,000 people from 42.4 in 2018 and exceeded the average European indicators. Compared to the Member States of the European Union, the insurance with nurses in Bulgaria is quite low. Our country has the second lowest share of nurses in the European Union after Greece, according to Eurostat. Security, organization and logistics of supplies. Safety, organization and logistics of supply of medicines. Remdesivir-free. Up to now, based on the contracts concluded, the country has received a total of 8593 vials on three deliveries. Before the conclusion of the contract for the purchase of the medicinal product the same was provided in the country with funds from the European Commission under the MCRI Mechanism. At Bulbio's warehouse as donations came 2906 vials. The medicinal product is distributed weekly to hospital care facilities in the country receiving therapy to patients with CoVID-19. Low-molecular heparin security. Due to the inclusion of low molecular heparins in treatment regimens for the treatment of COVID-19 in hospital conditions, some of the quantities intended for open-label pharmacies are directed to medical facilities. Therefore, in some areas there is a deficit of this type of medicinal product in the pharmacological network. After a meeting of the Minister of Health and Marketing Authorisation Holders, we received assurances that 12,000 doses of medicinal products will be distributed to the four largest distributors in the country. Wholesalers have committed themselves to delivering all available quantity to pharmacies in each area of the country. Information on pharmacies where the medicinal product is available is published on the IAL website, along with links to the relevant retailers who have supplied them. Pregnant patients with congenital thrombophilia will be able to receive the prescribed amount of the product from the prescribed prescriptions by their doctor. It's antibiotic-free. At present, due to a large part of the medical professionals' treatment scheme adopted in the outpatient aid of COVID-19, there has been an increased demand in the pharmacies network of a particular group of antibiotics. Therefore, increased demand and restocking of some citizens, in individual regions of the country, there is a lack of certain brands of antibiotics from the group of Macrolides............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. However, medicinal products from the same EN but from other manufacturers are available. After a meeting with wholesalers and marketing authorisation holders, we have received assurance that, at present, there is no shortage of therapeutic groups of medicines and, in particular, antibiotics on the pharmacies market as a whole. From a Bulgarian manufacturer we have received assurances that the pharmacies market is about to be launched on a new quantity of 60,000 packages of the medicinal product from this group. As measures to ensure that each patient has access to prescribed therapy, we will propose and submit to the National Assembly a number of legislative measures. Enlargement of blood plasma production from recovering patients. Plasma collected from patients treated with infectious disease has been overflowed for many decades for prevention or treatment of various infectious diseases, although evidence of its effectiveness and safety is mainly limited to empirical reports. In this regard, reconvalescent plasma is currently produced and donated in two places in the country.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... At present, activities providing more comfortable zones of waiting donors and short-term establishment of a procedure continue to be carried out. In order to receive donors, the necessary organization has been created for all who wish to donate plasma to be serviced, including on weekends. We are predicting an estimated phase-initiation of reconvalescent plasma production activities from the transfusion haematological centers. In the regions is envisaged in the following order: ЦТХ-Varna is ready for the end of November. We expect the first quantities produced by the Center for Needy Patients to be distributed on Monday. ЦТХ-Stara Zagora expects delivery of equipment and possible start-up of activities from the beginning of December 2020 with donation and financial assistance from the Ministry of Health. ЦТХ-Plovdiv also expects delivery of equipment and possible start-up of activities at the end of November- the beginning of December 2020 with donations and financial support from the Ministry of Health. ЦТХ-Плевен works on the European Commission's Programme with the beginning of the end of February 2021, but plans to start earlier with financial and technical support from the Ministry of Health. The integration of the dormitory aid. For the relief of pressure on hospitals and CSMs, the measure to be introduced is the establishment of a species of zones, both in some of the capital DCCs and in the larger cities of the country. General practitioners will direct patients to these structures for a clinical examination, testing for CIVID-19, laboratory blood testing and medical evaluation. National Information System for Combating COVID. You know that at the beginning of May the Ministry of Health put into operation the National Information System for Combating COVID-19, which provides centralized management and storage of information for all diagnosed and quarantined persons and provides functional collateral to all competent institutions related to the fight against COVID-19. The national information system consists of a number of modules. The last integrated module inserted into the National Information System is the hospital bed employment module designated for the treatment of patients with primary or accompanying CIVID-19 infection. The system is integrated between stakeholders related to the fight against COVID-19, including the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Interior, border crossing points of the Republic of Bulgaria. Access to the system has RGIs and other national organisations. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Madam President! I won't lie to you it's time to unite, because the words written under the coat of arms: The Unity makes the power, not just any words. If you don't believe me, believe the motto that identifies us as a nation. He'll outlive us, but let us live it. I took an oath to the Bulgarian people in all my interests to be guided by the interests of the people. So I want to tell you that I will do even the impossible to control this situation. But that depends on our mutual efforts. With our discipline and thought about each other we can all together and we will determine the future of our society. It's gonna be hard, but I'm sure we'll make it. With little strides, following the measures every day, we will win the battle with the coronavirus. That is why Martin Luther King says: The biggest measure for a person is not how he stands in his moments of comfort, but how he copes in times of challenges and contradictions. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u18	Thank you, dear Minister. Colleagues, we're moving on. [[Heckling]] I propose that the first item in the Programme for today will be: First vote on the Bulgarian Sign Language Bill. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 17 October 2020 The other points provided for for the sitting shall be renumbered. [[National Representative Georgi Svilenski wants the floor for a declaration.]] Procedure Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u19	Madam President, honourable Members! As the House is clearly complete, given the statement of a former President of the National Assembly and given the upcoming vote, I propose a name check. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u20	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Adlen Shukri Shevked is absent. Albena Vladimirova Naydenova- absent Alexander Dimitrov Pawnov- absent Alexander Ivanov Matsurev- here Alexander Koychev Ivanov- here Aleksandar Mairov Siddi-here Alexander Nikolaev Sabanov- here Alexander Petrov Alexandrov- here Alexander Rumenov Nenkov(through the Internet) video conference platform)- here Alexander Tihomirov Simov- absent Altimir Emilov Adamov- here Anastas Marinov Popdimitrov- here Angel Iliev Isaev- here Andrian Ivanov Raykov-- here. Anna Vasileva Alexandrova( via the Internet video conference platform) - - - here Anna Nikolaeva Slavova- absent Anton Konstantinov Kutev- here Asya Atanasova Peeva- here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov- here Atanas Petrov Kostadinov- here Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov is absent. Bogdan Emilov Botsev- absent Boris Vangelov Borisov- here Boris Petkov Kirchev- here Boris Yankov Yachev- here Borislav Ivanov Borisov- here Boryana Lyubenova Georgieva- here Bürhan Ilyazov Abase - absent Valentin Alexiev Nikolov- here Valentin Georgiev Lambev- absent Valentin Ivanov Radev- here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov- here Valentin Mirchov Milushev- here Valentina Alexandrova Naydenova- here Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov- absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov- here Vasil Milanov Antonov- here Vasil Tsvetkov- here Eyebrows Letif Rashidov here Velislava Ivanova Krasteva- absent Venka Kostadinova Stoyanova- here Vesela Nikolaeva Lecheva- here Veselin Naydenov Mareshki- here Veska Marinova Nencheva- here Violeta Ruseva Jeleva- here Vladimir Slavchev Valev- here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev- here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov- here Galya Eneva Zaharieva- here Galya Stoyanova Zhelyazkova - here Georgi Georgiev Mihailov- here Georgi Georgiev Stoilov- here Georgi Dimitrov Andreev- absent Georgi Evdokiev Markov- absent Georgi Zaprev Dinev- here Georgi Yordanov Yordanov- here Georgi Kolev Kolev (through the Internet) video conference platform) - here Georgi Nikolov Vergiev- here Georgi Strahilov Svilenski- here Georgi Tenev Stankov- here Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski- absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov- here Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova- here Daniel Petkov Yordanov- here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova- here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva- here Daniela Dimitrova Maleshkova- here Daniela Dobreva Dimitrova- here Danka Evstatieva Zidarova-Lurtova- here Dean Stoyanov Stanchev- here Delyan Slavchev Peevski- absent Desislaw Petrov Taskov- here Desislaw Slavov Chukolov- absent Desislava Angelova Todorova- here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova- here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva- here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov is absent. Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov is absent Dilyan Stanimirov Dimitrov- here Dimitar Boychev Petrov- here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev- here Dimitar Velichkov Georgiev - absent Dimitar Ivanov Avramov- absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev- here Dimitar Ivanov Danchev- here Dimitar Krumov Alexandrov- here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov- here Dimitar Stoyanov Stoyanov- absent Dobrin Nenov Danev- here Donka Dimova Simeonova- absent Dora Ilieva Yankova- here Dora Stoyanova Hristova- here Dragomir Velkov Stoynev- absent Evgeni Genchev Budinov- here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva- here Evgenia Danielova Angelova- here Evdokia Slavchova Asenova- absent Elena Vladimirova Angelina- here Elena Stefanova Pesheva - absent Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov- absent Emil Marinov Hristov- here Emil Seraphimov Tonchev- here Emilia Veselinova Staneva-Milkova- here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin is absent. Errol Osman Mehmet-- absent. Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev- absent Brought to you by Vassilev Iankov- here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov- here Ivan Dimov Ivanov- absent Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev- absent Ivan Nikolov Mihovski- here Ivan Stefanov Valkov- here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov- here Ivelina Veselinova Vasileva- here Ivo Angelov Hristov- absent Iglika Ivanova-Subeva- here Ilian Angelov Timchev- here Imren Ismetova Mehmedova- absent Irena Metodieva Dimova- here Irena Todorova Anastasova- here Honest Vasilev Veselinov- here Ihsan Halil Hakke is absent Yordan Apostolov-Apostolov is absent Yordan Iliev Yordanov- here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev- absent Kalin Dimitrov Vassilev- here Kalin Lubenov Velev- here Kalin Nikolov Popovski- here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin is absent. Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva- here Kolyo Yordanov Milev- here Konstantin Veselinov Popov (through the Internet) video conference platform) - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev- here Krasimir Georgiev Tzipov- here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov- here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev- here Krasimir Mitkov Subev- here Krasimir Hristov Jankov- here Christian Ivanov Vigenin- here Cristina Maximova Sidorova- here Krum Kostadinov Zarkov- here Krastina Nikolova Takova- missing Lalo Georgiev Kirilov- here Lilyana Drumeva Radeva- here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov- here Lyubomir Boykov Bonev- here Manoil Minchev Manev- here Manol Trifonov Genov here Margarita Nikolaeva Nikolova- absent Maria Yordanova Ilieva- here Maria Yordanova Tsvetkova- here Maria Shtereva Belova- here Martin Stefanov Obreshkov- here Menda Kirilova Stoyanova- here Milen Vassilev Mihov- here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova- here Milko Nedyalkov Nedyalkov- here Mitko Kostadinov Polychronov (through the Internet) video conference platform) - here Mikhail Ivaylov Hristov- absent Mladen Nikolov Shishkov (through the Internet) video conference platform)- here Mustafa Sally Karadaye- absent Nadia Spasova Klisurska-Zekova- here Nelly Ruskova Petrova- here Nigyar Sahlim Jaffer is absent Nikola Iliev Dinkov- here Nikolay Asenov Tishev- here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov- here Nikolay Georgiev Ivanov- here Nikolay Dimitrov Penev- here Nikolay Ivanov Tsonkov- here Nikolay Krastev Boshkov- here Nikolay Tsvetanov Sirakov- here Nikolina Panayotova Angelkova- here Nona Krasteva Yotova- here Pavel Alexeyev Hristov- here Pavel Dimitrov Shopov is absent. Colleagues, so far we've got 133. There's a quorum, we're continuing the meeting. I thank my colleagues who are online, but their names have not been read. [[National Representative Georgi Svilenski wants the floor for a declaration.]] There is a declaration on behalf of a group, but before that we vote on the supplement to the item on today's agenda. Please, voting mode. Colleagues, as the vote goes on the agenda, Alexander Nenkov, to include item one, which I have just read about the Bulgarian sign language, how do you vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u21	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u22	Mrs. Alexandrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u23	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u24	Mr. Georgi Kolev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u25	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u26	Mr. Apostolov? We can't turn it on. Mr. Popov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u27	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u28	Mr. Polychronov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u29	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u30	Mr. Shishkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u31	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u32	Mr. Nunev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u33	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u34	Mr. Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u35	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u36	Thank you, colleagues. We have eight votes for the House further to the vote. Abort the vote and announce the result. Vote 138 plus 8 became 146 MPs: for 144, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Another addition to the agenda: On the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that the following item be included in the weekly Programme for the Work of the National Assembly: First vote of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Personal Assistance Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 10 November 2020, I propose to become the first item for the plenary sitting on Friday, 13 November 2020. Colleagues, we're voting. Mr. Alexander Nenkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u37	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u38	Mrs. Alexandrova, you can't hear her. I'm excluding Mrs. Alexandrova. Mr. Kolev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u39	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u40	Mr. Popov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u41	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u42	Mr. Polychronov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u43	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u44	Mr. Shishkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u45	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u46	Mr. Nunev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u47	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u48	Mr. Rosen Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u49	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u50	We have 7 votes: 7 times on the online platform. They voted 135 MPs plus 7 who are online, 142 MPs: for 98, against 9, abstention 35. The motion is accepted. Come in for a statement, Mr. Mihailov, on behalf of a group. Colleagues, the quorum is 65. Maybe I didn't want to say 129 at first. Please note for the record in the appropriate place.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u51	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, honourable Members! At the beginning of the declaration I would like to thank Professor Angelov in absentia, only that you have secured the entire debate that should have happened here under the appropriate procedure. He came and planted his information. Of course, it was maimed by you. I don't know why Professor Angelov is not a soft egg to keep. This was declared on behalf of our entire parliamentary group and one conversation could be made. Now in relation to what he has read, I would like to tell you a few things on behalf of our parliamentary group, which I think are very serious and should be taken into account in making decisions regarding the serious issue of COVID 19, which is being played out throughout the world, including in our country. Of all the reports that are currently running on national television, you see that there are serious problems in the first plan - testing and identification of patients, not patients, but carriers, because here is very often confused between positive and people who are sick. These problems are very serious because on the continent of Europe in the summer and now in Slovakia, as you have seen in the last week, conditions have been created and we propose that this happen. Not to dump containers in front of hospitals, not to make a model of units of which in Sofia are currently working exactly three, and research under the municipality's orders today was claimed on the National Television, should be paid by citizens, and research should be free of charge for all Bulgarian citizens, to be created export points at which people without any concern, without any danger for them, with a view to ordering them into queues of 200.300 people who are suffering from symptoms, and people who doubt but are healthy, and thus creating conditions for contamination, this was created in other countries of Europe, was now created just in Slovakia, so we insist that this should happen, this money should be separated. You have repeatedly stated that there is money in the country. These are not extremely large funds, but, of course, there are millions that need to be separated. Secondly, which is very important, and we want to pay attention to everyone, of course, who is interested in the problem. Pushing into every hospital of the Kove wards and of the Kove patients creates real conditions, colleagues, and this has already been raised as a thesis and by patient organizations, and by professional organizations to be more and more contaminated colleagues of medical staff. You know, the percentage of medical personnel currently contaminated is pretty high. That is why our proposal is to create that we have talked about and shared it with each other and with people who are dealing with this problem in health care, to create free medical facilities that deal only with the treatment of horse infections. Such an example exists in the world and this example is successful. It was imposed, so controlled and preserved the health and life of the specialists who work in the health network. And thirdly, which is very important, there should be a serious, large-scale, on behalf of the state, a explanatory campaign to present the real parameters of this infection in the Bulgarian society, and not to talk nonsense, nor to forms of treatment that have not been proven effective, nor to rates of mortality that are not true, as this panic is created completely artificially in the Bulgarian nation and now we are drawing the fruits of this panic. [[Reply from the National Representative Lachezar Ivanov.]] If there's anything you'd like to say, colleague, come to the stand. So let's not make an ugly statement. We ask all of this in the interests of the Bulgarian citizens to be fulfilled, as otherwise things will continue to deepen and we will get to the level that Professor Angelov spoke about in his speech. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u52	Thank you, Mr. Mihailov. Declaration on behalf of the group Mrs. Georgieva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u53	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! If the state does not put children and family as a top priority, nothing else matters, because these policies should, honourable Members, understand for yourselves that they are already a matter of national security. What is scarier than reading European reports on high child mortality in Bulgaria, about a huge number of children growing in poverty, about lack of prevention and access to medicines at normal prices. Bulgaria is melting and money for children and families is never there. Now we at Volya have an initiative for free medicines for pensioners over 65 years of age, students up to IV grade, and 50% cheaper medicines for students from IV to VIII grade. So far, however, no party has expressed a position on this subject. Four years in a row in four state budgets we offer: one-off child support for mothers aged 18 with a completed secondary education of 1000 BGN. In the first child, 2000 leva. with a second child and 3,000 leva. at the birth of a third child and also free kindergartens; the allowance for raising a child up to 2 years of age shall be the minimum wage; the monthly allowance for raising a child up to the end of secondary education, but not more than 20 years of age, shall be for each child, irrespective of the income of the family. It is only in this budget that children are offered for everyone, but the issue is not that change to be for a year, but to be a state policy. Colleagues, I know that we are adopting laws of a different nature and hardly all 240 MPs have the same expertise. I realize that when you don't know the relevant matter you vote partyly, but when it comes to the children of Bulgaria, if you don't put your heart into it, if you don't vote with your heart, no one will forgive it. I hope it doesn't take you years to realize our ideas, because we at WOLA have put the family first and the children are the foundation of the family. Finally, I would like to congratulate you on the first step we have taken together to prohibit the use, sale and supply of all non-suite smoking products and devices to persons under the age of 18. I thank all my fellow Members who have given reason and supported the proposed bill. I believe that this is precisely how we show that the health of children comes first for us, and in such a situation there is no place for political contradictions, and on the contrary, all we need is the unification of these good causes. This, colleagues, is a victory not of the will, it is a victory for children and children, for the sake of their better life and the preservation of their health, because care for them is not measured by a unit term. Care for children, for their health, education and education is the future of an entire nation. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the Bulgarian Rhodolyptics and GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u54	Thank you, dear Mrs. Georgieva. Message: The National Assembly received a Report of the Chairman of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund on the performance of its functions under the Bankruptcy Act for the period 29 September 21 October 2020 and Protocol No 32 of the Governing Council meeting of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund, held on 26 October 2020, on which the Report was reviewed and discussed. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report and the Protocol were sent to the Budget and Finance Committee. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Colleagues, we are moving to the first item of today's agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAWPROECTION FOR THE BULGARIAN LANGUAGE. With the report of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, Mrs. Angelova will introduce us. Here you go. [[Reports and speeches are translated into sign language.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u55	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable representatives of the deaf and deaf community! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Bulgarian Sign Language Bill, No 002-01-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 October 2020. The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee at a regular meeting held on 28 October 2020, discussed and discussed the Bulgarian Sign Language Bill. The meeting was attended by Tanya Mihaylova, Deputy Minister of Education and Science, Adriana Stoimenova, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, experts from the Ministry of Education and Science, experts from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, representatives of organizations of and for deaf people. The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Adriana Stoimenova. With answers to questions took part in the discussion Deputy Minister Tanya Mihailova. The reasons for the Bulgarian Sign Language Bill indicate that the main objectives of the Law are: - recognition of the Bulgarian sign language for natural language; - providing a grant service from and in Bulgarian sign language for deaf and deaf persons; - recognition of the cultural and linguistic identity of the community of deaf persons and formation of attitudes for respect for them through the Bulgarian sign language; - formation of sustainable attitudes and motivation for lifelong learning and use of the Bulgarian sign language with a view to ensuring equal opportunities for deaf and blind deaf persons for their full inclusion and participation in public life; - implementation of the Bulgarian sign language in the system of preschool and school education and higher education; - preparation of specialists for training in Bulgarian sign language; - providing communication with the help of modern information technologies through the Bulgarian sign language. The Law regulates the rights and obligations of the institutions in the system of preschool and school education in relation to providing conditions for the use of the Bulgarian sign language according to the loss of hearing and the extent of damage to the sight of children and students. An opportunity for early impact and early support of deaf and deaf children and students through the Bulgarian sign language is envisaged. For the parents of deaf or blind-deep children there are certain consultations related to providing a language environment for communication in Bulgarian sign language and for teaching the child from the moment of detection of hearing loss. For parents is also provided an opportunity for training in Bulgarian gesture language. An opportunity for learning the Bulgarian sign language is provided in a special educational direction in kindergartens and as a special subject in schools, as well as for using it in the educational process according to the needs of deaf and blind deaf children and students. It is also regulated the possibility in current tests and exams in the system of school education, as well as in pedagogical situations in preschool education deaf and blind deaf children and students according to their individual needs to have the right to use the Bulgarian sign language. The right to use translation services in Bulgarian sign language for deaf and blind deaf students and PhD students as well as the possibility to provide conditions for the preparation of specialists in Bulgarian gesture language. The Law provides for an opportunity to create a Council for the Bulgarian sign language with advisory functions to assist the Minister of Education and Science in the implementation of the activities related to the development of the Bulgarian sign language. With the adoption of the Law on the Bulgarian Sign Language will be implemented Strategic Objective 4.2. "Introduction of the gesture language of the Action Plan of the Republic of Bulgaria for the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities of the United Nations ". . The law will introduce provisions relating to the recognition and equal application of the Bulgarian sign language in various spheres of public life. It will change in a positive way the educational, social and cultural environment of deaf people in Bulgaria, and hence the quality of their lives will increase. A Report on the overall preliminary assessment of the impact of the Bulgarian sign language bill is attached to the Bill. A reference has also been applied to reflect the proposals submitted by the public consultation on the bill. The opinions of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Finance, the minutes of a meeting of the National Council for Persons with Disabilities, the general opinion of 18 non-governmental organizations of and for people with disabilities and the opinion of the Association of Bulgarian Radio and Television Operators took place in the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. All opinions are supportive and contain specific proposals for the second reading of the Bill. People's representatives Georgi Gokov, Svetlana Angelova, Hasan Ademov, Alexander Siddi, Vesela Lecheva and Nadia Klisurska took part in the discussion with questions. All MPs said they found sufficient grounds to support the bill. At the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: 19 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Asks the National Assembly to support the Bulgarian Sign Language Bill, No 002 01-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 October 2020
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u56	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. Report from the Committee on Education and Science. Here you go, Mrs. Lurtova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u57	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe on the Bulgarian sign language bill, No 002 01-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 October 2020. At its regular meeting held on 28 October 2020, the Education and Science Committee examined the Bulgarian Sign Language Bill, No 002-01-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 October 2020. The meeting took part: from the Ministry of Education and Science: Tanya Mihailova The bill was presented by Ms. Tanya Mihailova, who stressed that the draft law on the Bulgarian sign language was developed in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of Disabled Persons of the UN and its main purpose is recognition of the language status of the Bulgarian sign language, as well as its equivalent application in various areas of public life. The Law regulates the rights and obligations of the institutions in the system of pre-school and school education in relation to providing conditions for the use of the Bulgarian sign language. Early impact and early support of deaf and deaf children and students through the Bulgarian sign language, as well as consultation and training for their parents are envisaged. An opportunity for learning the Bulgarian sign language in a special educational direction in kindergartens and as a special subject in schools is provided. In current tests and exams, as well as in pedagogical situations deaf and deaf children and students can use the Bulgarian sign language. The Law proposes the establishment of a Council for the Bulgarian Sign Language with advisory functions to assist the Minister of Education and Science in the implementation of the activities related to the development of the Bulgarian Sign Language. The right to use translation services in Bulgarian sign language for deaf and blind deaf students and PhD students as well as the possibility to provide conditions for the preparation of specialists in Bulgarian gesture language. The inclusion of translation services from and in Bulgarian sign language is envisaged in the List of translators in Bulgarian sign language. The list will be kept and maintained by the Agency for Persons with Disabilities. The following discussion was attended by the MPs Milena Damyanova, Veska Nencheva, as well as representatives of NGOs, trade unions and employers' organizations. Lawyer Simona Veleva, acting as a representative of the deaf community, presented the summary opinion of the NGOs of the deaf. The deaf community has nearly 120 thousand people who are united in various organizations. These organisations have several important and key proposals for changes. The first is for dropping out of art. 2 of the Bill, since it does not prescribe rights, nor does it impose specific obligations. The aim of the bill is to create a Law on the Bulgarian Sign Language as the other communication systems exist. The Bulgarian sign language is autonomous. It is the only recognized in Bulgaria with research as existing with its grammar, its vocabulary, with its language rules. The second request is that it is possible to be not only a person with acquired professional qualifications, but also a person with an educational-qualification degree "Bachelor" or "Master" in specialty "Bulgarian gesture language." The third request is that the Council of Bulgarian Sign Language, which will be an advisory body of the Ministry of Education and Science, consist of an odd number of members and the deaf have a majority in it. The fourth request of the deaf community is through the Bulgarian sign language to ensure access to the labour market. Mr. Danko Kalapish presented the opinion of the Union of Employers in the system of people's education in Bulgaria. The organization supports the creation of the Law on the Bulgarian Sign Language, whose philosophy and focus are on equality of deaf persons, improving their quality of life and integration in different social spheres. From the point of view of working with children and students, there are several questions to which the Law does not answer, such as why the study of Bulgarian sign language in secondary education is not carried out on the principle of learning the mother tongue under art. 16 of the Law on preschool and school education. A profiled resource teacher and/or translator is envisaged for each student to participate fully in the educational and educational process, as well as in the ongoing assessment and conduct of exams. The opinion of the Union of Employers is that in 2025/2026, when the Law will enter into force, there will not be enough pedagogical staff to realize the envisaged opportunities for the use of Bulgarian sign language in kindergartens and schools. Mrs. Radostina Gyeva, representative of the Independent Teachers' Syndicate and psychologist at school for students with impaired hearing, proposed to refine the wording of the resource teacher. To specify what specialist should be involved in the training of children and students and in what situations should be a translator, a teacher of Bulgarian gesture language or a resource teacher. Mr. Ashod Derandonian from the Foundation "Zeol" stressed that the Bulgarian sign language is proven as a separate and natural language thanks to a research conducted jointly with the Ministry of Education and Science. The authenticity of the sign language is important and all resources related to the Bulgarian sign language must be created. He pointed out that the practice from the past is mainly the use of calculating gestures, which has nothing to do with the Bulgarian gesture language. The purpose of the Law on the Bulgarian Sign Language is to introduce innovation, the already recognized natural Bulgarian sign language of deaf people to enter public life. He expressed the deaf community's desire to create effective methods for quality gesture translation, for quality gesture language teachers, so that this language could become equal, as is the Bulgarian verbal language. Studying the specialty of the Bulgarian gesture language to be of the status of philology like any foreign language. National Representative Milena Damyanova voiced support for the Bill, stressing that the proposal to acquire an educational-qualification degree of Bachelor's degree or Master's degree in the specialty of the Bulgarian gesture language is to be discussed with higher schools. People's representative Veska Nencheva expressed her empathy for the efforts of the deaf community and their perseverance in defending their rights. She also expressed readiness to support the bill. After a vote of 17 votes held, the Committee on Education and Science proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft draft for the Bulgarian sign language, No 002-01-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 October 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Lurtova. Who will present the Report of the Commission on Interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints? Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of Parliament, honourable representatives of people with hearing and speaking disabilities! ♪ I can't believe on a draft Law on the Bulgarian Sign Language, No 002-01-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria on 7 October 2020. The Committee on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Citizens' Complaints at a regular meeting held on 29 October 2020, discussed and discussed the Bulgarian Sign Language Bill No 002-01-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria on 7 October 2020. At the Commission meeting, the bill was presented by Mrs. Tanya Mihailova, Deputy Minister of Education and Science. During the presentation it was noted that the draft law on the Bulgarian sign language was developed in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities of the UN and its main purpose is recognition of the language status of the Bulgarian sign language and respect for the right of deaf persons to express, to information and to their identity through the Bulgarian sign language. Up to now in the Republic of Bulgaria the gesture language is used in education as an aid. In order to provide conditions for the absorption of natural gesture language, and not only the calculation speech requires the solution of a number of serious issues. The study of the vocabulary and grammar of the Bulgarian gesture language, the development of methodical guides to the Bulgarian gesture language. In 2015, the Minister of Education and Science established a concept on the implementation of art. 21 Freedom of expression and of opinion, freedom of access to information and information from the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities "Introduction of gesture language." Following an analysis of the current European framework in the area of freedom of expression and opinions, the priority measures are laid down in the Action Plan for the implementation of the Convention, one of which is recognition and promotion of the Bulgarian sign language as a language system. The adoption of the Law will encourage and support the conduct of research related to the vocabulary and grammar of the Bulgarian sign language. Recognition of gesture language as a natural language is a major priority of the deaf community around the world. The main objectives of the Law are: recognition of the Bulgarian sign language for natural language; provision of a free translation service from and in Bulgarian sign language for deaf and deaf persons; recognition of the cultural and linguistic identity of the deaf person community and formation of attitudes for respect for them through the Bulgarian sign language. Among the priorities are: the formation of sustainable attitudes and motivation for lifelong learning and the use of the Bulgarian sign language with a view to ensuring equal opportunities for deaf and blind deaf persons for their full inclusion and participation in public life; the application of the Bulgarian sign language in the system of preschool and school education and higher education; the preparation of specialists for the training of the Bulgarian gesture language, providing communication with the help of modern information technologies through the Bulgarian gesture language. The Law regulates the rights and obligations of the institutions in the system of preschool and school education in relation to providing conditions for the use of the Bulgarian sign language according to the loss of hearing and the extent of damage to the sight of children and students. There is also a right to use translation services in Bulgarian sign language for deaf and deaf students and PhD students, as well as an opportunity to provide conditions for the preparation of specialists in Bulgarian gesture language. The Law provides for an opportunity to create a Council for the Bulgarian sign language with advisory functions to assist the Minister of Education and Science in the implementation of the activities related to the development of the Bulgarian sign language. The funds for the activities provided for in the Bill will be provided by the state budget, through the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, from the budget of the institutions under art. 21, para. 4 t. Art. 2 and Art. 2 25, and at the expense of medical establishments under art. 21, para. 4 t. 1 of the Law, from the budget of the state and municipal kindergartens and schools, the centers for support for personal development under art. 49, para. 1, t. 4 and specialized service units under art. Art. 50, art. 1, t. 5 of the APO, as well as European and international projects and programmes and other sources. With the adoption of the Law on the Bulgarian Sign Language will be implemented Strategic Objective 4.2 "Introduction of the sign language" by the Action Plan of the Republic of Bulgaria for the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities of the UN 2015 - 2020. A written opinion of 18 non-governmental organizations of people with impaired hearing has been received under the Bill, which support it and propose changes in the texts that they believe are key points in the Law. The opinion presented on behalf of the Public Council to the Commission noted that the project is of public importance to the deaf community in Bulgaria. The Council has adopted the drafting and adoption of such a law as one of the priorities for work at the beginning of its term of office. In the light of the foregoing, the Public Council calls on the Commission to support the proposed Draft Law on the Bulgarian Sign Language in the first vote. The following discussion was attended by the MPs Georgi Gokov and Krum Zarkov. Mr. Gokov said that more than 130 thousand people with varying degrees of hearing are living in the Republic of Bulgaria, of which about 50 thousand use Bulgarian gesture language. With the adoption of the Law, all these people will have access to quality education, public services and employment. In his speech, the national representative Krum Zarkov expressed his opinion that the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) will support the bill, as it has done a huge amount of work and it is extremely necessary. On the basis of the presented bill and following the subsequent vote, the Commission on the interaction with non-governmental organizations and citizens' complaints with 14 votes................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u60	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. The next report belongs to the Committee on Culture and Media. Here you are, Mrs. Tsvetkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, I would like to present your attention. ♪ I can't believe on the Bulgarian sign language bill, No 002-01-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 October 2020. At a regular meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media, held on 29 October 2020, the Bulgarian Sign Language Bill No 002-01-48 was discussed, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 October 2020. The meeting was attended by Adriana Stoimenova, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, experts from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, representative of the Association of Bulgarian Radio and Television Operators and representatives of organizations of and for people with impaired hearing. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mrs. Adriana Stoimenova. The proposed bill proposes the settlement of public relations related to the recognition of the Bulgarian sign language, for a natural language and respect for the right of deaf and deaf persons of expression and information through the Bulgarian sign language. The bill was developed in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities of the United Nations, which was ratified by a law adopted by the 41st National Assembly on 26 January 2012. This Convention also recognises the identity of the community of hearing deprived and encourages the use of gesture language. Opinions were received in the Committee on Culture and Media on the Draft Law by the Ministry of Culture, the Council for Electronic Media, the Bulgarian National Radio, the Bulgarian National Television, the Association of Bulgarian Radio and Television Operators. On behalf of the President of the Commission, Mr. Vezdi Rashidov, a proposal was made to take account of the opinions received and, after the first vote of the Draft in plenary, to propose that § 6 of the Transitional and Final Provisions be repealed. Analog text conforming with the transposition of the provisions of Directive (EU) 2018/1808 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 November 2018 relating to the provision of audiovisual media services is included in the Radio and Television Bill approved by the Council of Ministers on 21 October, which is to be examined in the National Assembly. In his speech the MPs Anastas Popdimitrov from BSP for Bulgaria and Hristian Mitev from the General Assembly expressed a position that they will support this proposal. Following a vote, the MPs from the Culture and Media Committee unanimously with 15 votes for the Council of Ministers, No 002-01-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 October 2020, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft of the Bulgarian gesture language, No 002-01-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 October 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u62	Thank you, dear Mrs. Tsvetkova. The report of the Committee on Health follows. Here you are, Mr. Alexandrov, to introduce us to the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u63	Madam President, honourable Members, honourable representatives of the deaf community! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Bulgarian sign language bill, No 002-01-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 October 2020. At its extraordinary meeting held on 4 November 2020, the Health Committee examined and discussed the Bulgarian Sign Language Bill, No 002-01-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 October 2020. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Adriana Stoimenova, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy. The bill and the reasons for it were presented by Mrs. Adriana Stoimenova. The draft Law on the Bulgarian Sign Language was developed in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities of the UN and its main purpose is recognition of the language status of the Bulgarian sign language and respect for the right of deaf persons to express, to information and to their identity through the Bulgarian sign language. In Bulgaria there is a tendency towards a thorough study of the sign language and strengthening its role in the cognitive and personal development of children with auditory loss, as well as its potential to assist in learning the spoken Bulgarian language. The need to learn and use the sign language is taken into account both by deaf persons and by all Bulgarian citizens. In fulfilling the obligations of the Republic of Bulgaria under the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, it is intended that deaf and deaf persons should be provided access to information and communication through translation services in Bulgarian gesture language with an annual limit financed by the state. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy organizes and coordinates activities related to the provision, reporting and financing of translation services in the Bulgarian sign language, which have a certain limit. Deaf and deaf persons have the right to a free translation service in Bulgarian sign language up to 120 hours per year limit, as well as the right to additional use of translation services in Bulgarian sign language up to 60 hours per semester for deaf and deaf students and doctoral students. Outside of the limits provided, deaf and blind deaf persons receive a grant translation service and hospitalization in hospital hospitals, mental health centers, centers for skin-venerical diseases and complex oncology centers, as well as in carrying out procedural and follow-up actions under the Ministry of Interior Act. State institutions and local self-government bodies are also obliged to provide translation into Bulgarian gesture language when declaring and/or receiving administrative services by the executive and local government authorities, as well as in the conduct of events organised by them, with participation of persons with hearing loss and blind deaf persons when persons have previously requested a translator from and in Bulgarian gesture language. The law also introduces the provision of gesture translation of news and up-to-date publicist programmes with economic and political themes from audiovisual media service providers. The achievement of all the above objectives ensures not only access to information but also access to education, better realization and socialization of deaf persons, and hence a better quality of their lives. The funds for the activities provided for in the Bulgarian Sign Language Act will be provided from the state budget through the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy; from the budget of the state institutions and bodies of the local self-government; from the budget of the hospitals, mental health centers, centers for skin-veneric diseases and complex oncology centers; from the budget of the state and municipal kindergartens and schools, the centers for support for personal development under art. 49, para. 1, t. 4 and specialized service units under art. 50, para. 1, t. 5 of the Law on pre-school and school education, as well as on European and international projects and programs and from other sources. According to the Law, an opinion was received from the National Association of Regional Multi-profile Hospitals for Active Treatment, expressing concern about the envisaged mechanism for financing this service, namely that it is at the expense of hospital care facilities, which are financed only for carrying out medical activities under a contract with the National Health Insurance Fund. The opinion states that the translation service should be a grant for people with lost hearing, but should be financed by budget resources. The Bulgarian Association of Assistant Pharmacists expressed its principle support under the Bill in its opinion, stating readiness to inform its members of possible programmes for such qualification developed by the competent authorities. The aim is for assistant pharmacists who are interested to acquire knowledge and skills with which to benefit deaf and blind deaf persons in providing pharmaceutical care. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: the draft of the Bulgarian sign language, No 002-01-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 October 2020, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft of the Bulgarian sign language, No 002-01-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 October 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u64	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. From the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management "Please, Mr. Dinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u65	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, distinguished guests from the deaf community in Bulgaria! ♪ I can't believe on the Bulgarian sign language bill, No 002-01-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 21 October 2020, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government discussed the Bulgarian Sign Language Bill, No 002-01-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 October 2020. The meeting was attended by Ms. Tanya Mihailova, Deputy Minister of Education and Science, Mrs. Greta Gancheva, Director of the Department of Education and Science, experts and representatives of NGOs. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Ms. Tanya Mihailova, Deputy Minister of Education and Science. The Bulgarian sign language bill was developed in accordance with the UN Convention on the Rights of Disabled People. The Action Plan of the Republic of Bulgaria for the Implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities 2015 - 2020 establishes recognition and promotion of the Bulgarian sign language as a language system. The main objective of the bill is recognition of the language status of the Bulgarian sign language and respect for the right of deaf persons to express information and their identity through the Bulgarian sign language. The bill regulates the rights and obligations of the institutions in the system of pre-school and school education in relation to providing conditions for the use of the Bulgarian sign language according to the loss of hearing and the degree of damage to the sight of children and students.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u66	If you please, Dr. Zablyanov, don't speak too loudly, keep order in the room.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u67	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u68	The right to use translation services in Bulgarian sign language for deaf and deaf students and PhD students as well as the possibility to provide conditions for the preparation of specialists in Bulgarian gesture language. The establishment of a Council for the Bulgarian sign language with advisory functions is envisaged to assist the Minister of Education and Science in the implementation of the activities related to the development of the Bulgarian sign language as well as a new regime regarding translation services. State institutions and bodies of local self-government undertake to provide translation into Bulgarian gesture language when declaring and/or receiving administrative services by the authorities of the executive and local self-government, as well as in the conduct of events organised by them, with participation of persons with hearing loss and blind deaf persons when persons have previously requested a translator from and in Bulgarian gesture language. The law also introduces the provision of gesture translation of news and up-to-date publicist programmes with economic and political themes from audiovisual media service providers. The adoption and implementation of the Law will change in a positive way the educational, social and cultural environment of the deaf people in Bulgaria, and hence the quality of their lives will increase. Opinions were submitted to the Commission by non-governmental organisations of deaf and audiovisual media service providers, expressing principled support for the bill, while also proposals were made to refine and supplement individual provisions. During the discussion the MPs unanimously supported the need to adopt the bill. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 21 votes for the Council of Ministers, without abstention and abstention, proposed to the National Assembly a draft for the Bulgarian sign language, No 002-01-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers, to be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u69	Thank you, Mr. Dinev. I'm opening the debate on the bill. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u70	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable representatives of the deaf and blind deaf community in Bulgaria! Today our attention is a long-awaited bill, which was to be seen yesterday as item five in plenary, but, unfortunately, we have seen again another ugly scenario by the opposition of the BSP and the DPS, which have failed the quorum. In this way these people took a wasted walk to the National Assembly, looking forward to the adoption of the Bulgarian Sign Language Bill, but remained disappointed as a result of the irresponsible attitude of the BSP. This law is a great victory for the deaf and deaf community, a human right for which people of varying degrees of hearing impairment have been struggling for years. Over 100,000 Bulgarians will have the opportunity to use gesture language, to give them the opportunity to learn it, to communicate with each other and to be removed from social isolation. Only one fifth of the deaf and deaf community in Bulgaria know the sign language because the others have nowhere to study it and have nowhere to learn it. Even in specialized schools the possibility of learning the sign language is limited because the sign language in Bulgaria legally does not exist so far and cannot be an official subject. I take this opportunity to turn around and thank the representatives of the deaf and deaf community for their key role in the participation of the working group at the Ministry of Education and Science in the preparation of the Bulgarian Sign Language Bill, because they know best the problems of people with impaired hearing. They were equal and active members of the Working Group on the drafting of the texts themselves. The Bulgarian sign language bill was developed in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of Disabled People of the United Nations and its main purpose is the recognition of the Bulgarian sign language for a natural language and respect for the right of the deaf and deaf community of expression, information, communication and identity through the Bulgarian sign language. Eliminate all restrictions in the communication of deaf and deaf persons is extremely important for their better realization and socialization, and hence to the better quality of life. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy received an opinion from 18 blind deaf and deaf organisations with a proposal for an amendment between the first and second votes. We from the political party GERB parliamentary group got acquainted with this opinion. We believe that some of the requests are justified and deserve to be supported and will be taken into account as proposals between first and second readings as regards art. 2 as well as regarding the inclusion of a new specialty in higher education institutions "Bulgarian gesture language" as well as in terms of having a prestigious representation by the community of deaf and deaf people in the Council for the Bulgarian gesture language. Finally, I would like to say that we should not remain with the illusion that the legalization of the Bulgarian sign language will solve all the problems accumulated over the years and will overcome the lack of uniform opinion on many aspects related to the gesture language. The law could not introduce a single regime, but it would allow wider use and study of the Bulgarian sign language than deaf and blind deaf persons, which would facilitate their communication and understanding of the surrounding world Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Are there any lines? Line, Mr. Gokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u72	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Angelova, I take the floor for a line just to disagree with your nagging attitude on this issue. I did not imagine that you would make such a statement and at the beginning of your speech you would mention that the BSP was irresponsible and I do not know what, because yesterday they failed the quorum because of the gesture language law. What you do and suggest is shameful. You know very well why yesterday BSP asked for a census of the quorum to prevent the adoption of the shameful texts that legitimize the operation of the Bulgarian worker with changes in the Labour Code. The last thing I want to say to you, and otherwise the bill is consensual and it makes no sense to have this dialogue, is that because of the BSP the Law slowed down by one day, but because of GERB and the United Patriarchs.... its adoption and settlement of the issues of people with hearing and speech disabilities was delayed by three years, not to say by five, because it is a proposal from the previous National Assembly. So, when the bills are consensual, save your nagging tone and attitude towards others, while others have the self-esteem of people who offer good solutions to the Bulgarians. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u73	Is there a second line? I won't. From the discussion of the Bill at first reading, we turned it into a political discussion, and that is precisely because you started it. I hope you don't end up like this. Hole, Mrs. Angelova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u74	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable representatives of the deaf and deaf community! Dear Mr. Gokov, I put these words in my speech not to pick on but to tell the truth. Indeed, these people were in the National Assembly yesterday morning, with trembling and excitement, expecting the adoption of the first vote of the Law on the Bulgarian Sign Language, and instead of leading the debates with thinking that are expert, you preferred to leave the Chamber on the grounds that we have proposed lobbying laws. Is this the lobbying Law on Bulgarian Sign Language, which is long awaited and supported by all people? You are not honored because it is your fault that the Bulgarian Sign Language Act should not be seen in the Chamber yesterday and today these people will come here again, but I hope that this law will be supported by everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u75	Thank you. Are there any other speeches? Mr. Gyokov, a statement. If you want, you can give it to Mrs. Jeleva, she's a lady. Here you go, Mrs. Jeleva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u76	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honourable representatives of the deaf and deaf community in Bulgaria! I would like to remind you initially that one of the first projects of the BSP parliamentary group was precisely the Law on the Bulgarian Sign Language, which was rejected on 7 June 2017. I will not go into details of which colleagues in this Chamber was rejected, but its postponement and its legalization really affects Bulgaria and deprives it of the possibility to rank among the European countries that have officially arranged the legal status of the gesture language as a communication tool for people without hearing. The recognition of the sign language creates a hope, said a few years ago, waited for years for the Bulgarian Sign Language Act to be legalized as a communication tool and through it they will be able to access in all spheres of public life where possible. The adoption of the Gesture Language Act and the professional gesture translation would have several main advantages: it would place Bulgaria in the number of European countries that have arranged by law the adoption of the gesture language as a communication tool for citizens with specific auditory needs; it would arrange the regulation for the professional gesture translation according to European training practices and the use of gesture services at local, regional, national and international level; it would allow the wider entry of gesture into public life as an educational tool in the field of social services, employment, health, transport, public services, telecommunications, media services, etc. The creation of this law was a long process, it is, but the hope of the quiet community in Bulgaria is, as I said, to line up to the European countries legalized by their legislation the gesture language. However, the bill also has some shortcomings, were expressed in the opinions that we have all received. Some of them I should mention to be correct. The administrative burden has been increased, namely the settlement of translation services can create an unnecessary administrative burden for people with auditory deficits, gesture service users will have to prove with documentation their hearing status all this is with huge approval and documentation deadlines, and will create a greater administrative burden in this process. In the educational aspect of the project, despite the good intentions of learning both the Bulgarian literary language and the gesture language, and there it is now in some specialized schools, literacy will be questioned. VUMs will be obliged to provide gesture services, although very few deaf people are enrolled in higher education institutions, and hardly hearers do not have an inclusive environment and will not be provided with the subtitles they need. In the Draft Law, such a proposal has not been made at all. In general, there are other proposals that have been mentioned before me. This is rather in the reference made in the Law on Radio and Television, perhaps this will be removed between first and second readings. Some remarks that we discussed in the Commission will also be taken into account. But all that is happening today and that has been achieved with great effort is really in the direction that the long-awaited Law on Bulgarian sign language is now a reality so that it can ensure equal rights and equal conditions of employment and social inclusion. I hope that today we will be able to congratulate ourselves that it will be legal as a communication tool in Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Jeleva. Are there any lines? I won't. Mr. Gokov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u78	Thanks again, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of Parliament, honourable representatives of people with hearing and speaking disabilities! You know, but to say about colleagues: there are more than 120 people living in Bulgaria than 130 thousand people with varying degrees of hearing and speech impairment. For the dominant part of these people, this language is the main language and, in some cases, the only means of communication and the full implementation of their human and civil rights. The lack of a state policy for recognition, regulation and development of the Bulgarian sign language so far is an obstacle to the integration of people with impaired hearing in society, their access to quality education, public services and employment. The Bulgarian sign language is only used by about 50 thousand people with auditory and speech impairment. Among other reasons, the main reason for this is that at present the Republic of Bulgaria is one of the two countries in the European Union which has not recognised at the legal level the gesture language. The other side is Luxembourg. [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u79	Please keep quiet and order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u80	In some countries, gesture language is even recognised at constitutional level and such are Austria, Portugal, Finland. The fact is that Bulgaria ratified by law adopted by the Forty-first National Assembly on 26 January 2012, the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, and it is in force for the Republic of Bulgaria from 21 April 2012. I mention this not to open the subject, although it has been nearly nine years since ratification, we still have a lot to work to synchronize legislation with this Convention, but to note that there is recognition of the language identity of the deaf community. In general, the use of the sign language is encouraged and obliges us as a legislative authority to take action and to take a law that promotes, protects and guarantees people with auditory and speech disabilities the full and equal exercise of all their human rights and fundamental freedoms, respecting their human dignity. From the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria and we welcome the application of this law because the gesture language is useful to people with auditory and speech disabilities to increase their independence and interaction in all areas of life. It is therefore imperative that the use of the Bulgarian sign language be regulated by law. Now I will go back to our proposal, but do not consider it a tease again, but as a well-intentioned reminder that sometimes you should listen to the opposition's proposals. I would like to remind you that at the beginning of this term, we introduced the Bulgarian Sign Language Bill from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. We introduced it with the understanding that the Bulgarian sign language is a traditional and widely used form in Bulgaria, which is implemented with the help of the hands, fingers and facial mimics. Gesture or sign? It is accepted in European practice to call it a sign language, but in Bulgaria all regulations refer to it as a sign language, so we called it our bill. We thought that it very much regulates public relations related to the use of sign language as a means of communicating people with impaired hearing in order to create conditions for their full realization and integration in society, as well as for their enrichment with information from the surrounding world, that in accordance with this law the Bulgarian sign language will be recognized as a complete way of communicating equally with the spoken and written Bulgarian language. We thought the project would also be consensual. We very well motivated it and justified it, expressed many opinions by institutions and NGOs, for the most part positive, none of them rejected the need for the Bulgarian sign language to be recognized as a full language of communication equal to the spoken written Bulgarian language, but was nevertheless rejected by the majority. Of the 213 MPs voted, the 102, the 1 and the 110 abstentions, the same ones who are supposed to adopt this bill today. In the spirit of today's consensus on the gesture language bill, I will not draw conclusions because then in 2017 it was rejected. But I would like to say that if we had adopted this bill in 2017, we would now be ahead by three years and a great deal of the problems related to the use of the sign language, its development and imposition, if you would have had translators and trainings, would have already been overcome. Everything's fine when it ends well anyway. I hope that with the introduction of this bill and its consensual adoption in practice we will give a strong start to the process of recognition of the sign language as useful for people with auditory and speech disabilities and as a guarantee to increase their independence and interaction in all areas of life. It won't end people's problems with auditory and speech impairment just by accepting it. I hope that, between the first and second votes, the proposals made in the opinions of the organisations of the people directly dependent on the Law and also those we will make will be taken into account. I hope that we absolutely unanimously adopt the Law, which will recognise the Bulgarian sign language as a complete way of communicating and equal to the spoken and written Bulgarian language. I call on all Members of Parliament to be absolutely unanimous and with one vote for us to adopt this bill to show that we are thinking about people who are dependent on our decisions. Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u81	Did you say in one voice? It's not gonna happen in one voice.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u82	One vote each.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u83	Everyone give one vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u84	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u85	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Are there any lines to Mr. Gokov's statement? I don't see anyone who wants to. Any other speeches? I recommend that we limit ourselves in speeches, especially from the point of view that the Law is acceptable and consensual by everyone. Besides, the translator's got muscle fever. [[Radio.]] I hope there are no more speeches. I can't see. Thank you. We're putting an end to this debate. I vote on the Bulgarian sign language bill, No 002-01-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 October 2020. Mr. Polychronov, how do you vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u86	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u87	Thank you. Your support is priceless. Vote 127 plus 1 online "128 MPs: for 128, against and abstention there is no. The bill has been passed. Congratulations! [[Applause.]] Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR PUBLIC FINLANDS. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 22 October 2020, adopted in the first vote on 5 November 2020. Who will introduce us to the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I ask for a procedure for admission in the hall of Rositsa Velkova, Deputy Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u89	Voting regime for admission in the hall of the Deputy Minister of Finance Mrs. Rositsa Velkova. Vote 104 MPs: for 102, against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Velkova, please take her place in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u90	This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u91	Go on.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u92	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 26 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. The first sentence shall be replaced by the following: 24, para. Three or two. 2. In para. 3 shall be added at the end in exceptional circumstances under art. 24, para. In the year following their withdrawal, the Commission expressed doubts as to whether the aid was compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and whether the aid was compatible Under § 3 there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 27 the following 1. In para. 4 the figure 2. In para. 5 words, provided that the maximum level of the deficit of the sector is not exceeded under art. 25, para. The following points are inserted after the second paragraph of Article 4 (1) (c) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 24, para. The following information shall be provided in accordance with Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009: Under § 4, there is a proposal of the MP Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 28, para. A sentence 2 shall be created: "In the scope of the costs referred to in the first sentence, the costs incurred by accounts of EU funds as well as other international programmes and contracts which are subject to European Union fund accounts under art. 8, para. 4 including related national co-financing. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 37, para. 1, t. 4 the words for which this is provided for in the Law shall be replaced by those provided for in a law or arising from the international obligations of the Republic of Bulgaria and/or from the law of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u93	Thank you. Are there any statements on the title as well as paragraphs 1 to 5? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the title of the Bill, § 1 by importer and paragraphs 2, 3, 4 and 5 by the President of the Commission. Vote 97 MPs: 78, against 4, abstention 15. The title, as well as paragraphs 1 to 5, has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u94	Proposal of MP Valentin Lambev and group of MPs: screated § 5a: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. Art. 55a is repealed. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6 and shall replace the words... one Proposal of MP Valentin Lambev and group of MPs: ##6a is created: ##6a: 6a. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 86 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 3: (3) The stats referred to in para. 2 shall be adopted in the following order: first the indicators under point 2. 2 - 6 - then the indicators under point. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 2. Previously on AMC's... 3 " 6" became respectively. 4... 7............................................................ The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of MP Valentin Lambev and group of MPs: ##6b: ##6b: 6b. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 88 words. In the two uses are replaced by................................................................................................. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of MP Valentin Lambev and group of MPs: supposed § 6c: Article 2 is created. 90a: Art. 90a. In the adoption of the budgets under art. The principle of Art. 89 and 90 shall be respected. 86, para. 3. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of MP Valentin Lambev and group of MPs: "4." Paragraph 6d is inserted: supposed to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors. In Article 4 1. The text after the words "al." 3 and 4 and up to the end of the sentence shall be replaced by a sum of up to 1 per cent of the statement of revenue under the consolidated fiscal programme for the year in question, where they are covered by the overrun of own income and/or by the disclosure of new income sources, without worsening the balance of the consolidated fiscal programme. 2. A sentence second is created: "Additional costs/transfers above the size of the previous sentence and under the terms of the sentence are approved by the National Assembly. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of MP Valentin Lambev and group of MPs: It's five o'clock. Paragraph 6e is inserted: 6e. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: In the case of the aid, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of MP Valentin Lambev and group of MPs: It's six. Paragraph 6f is inserted: 6f. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 112, para. 6 in the introductory phrase, etc. 2 words.............................................................................. 86, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 86, The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of MP Valentin Lambev and group of MPs: "7." Paragraph 6g is inserted: 6g. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 117, para. 1 and 3 words. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u95	Are there any speeches? Mr. Tishev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u96	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! First of all, Mr. Chairman, since I'm going to be speaking on several paragraphs, I'm asking you in five minutes not to...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u97	Just tell me who you're gonna talk to.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u98	Under § 5a, under § 6b, § 6d and so on, since you did not stop the reporter in order for us to take the attitude, I will now have to express our opinion on at least three of them. First, we propose to drop art. 55a, which is the famous member of the Public Finance Act, which enables the Council of Ministers at its discretion to distribute with the PMS funds to the Bulgarian municipalities. For example, in 2019, 347 million were allocated by such decrees of the Council of Ministers. BGN, of which more than 200 million lv. for infrastructure projects. By what criteria are these funds allocated, who makes an analysis of which municipality needs them and which do not we have no clarity. Apparently, the only criterion that has proved itself in recent years is "our" and "Vashi" municipalities, i.e. municipalities that are managed by GERB or by their official or informal partners, are receiving funds from a mudguard, and other municipalities that are managed by the opposition must be saved as they can. For us this is a disgusting attitude towards Bulgarian citizens who live in municipalities governed by BSP or by other parties other than the government. I'd even allow myself to say that this is discrimination. [[Noise.]] A question was also put to the Commission by the Ministry's representative,...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u99	Quiet in the hall, please! Stop talking! The orator must be heard clearly.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u100	...that this article also allocates other funds to the municipalities that are needed, and that if he, you see, dropped out, then for example, financial support for teachers who travel between different settlements to teach will not be possible. This is not the case because further down the Law there are other members who allow the central budget to redirect funds to municipalities and there is no problem with these means of transport costs for teachers, for aid for gifted children, for doctors, if you will, for subsidies to be transferred from the central budget to the municipalities. These are our arguments art. 55a drop. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 86 we suggest the The proposal to introduce order when adopting the indicators of the budget, namely the aggregated indicators of the budget concerned, to be adopted after the examination and adoption of its specific individual parameters. Such order corresponds to logic, makes sense of the procedure for the adoption of the budget. Perhaps most of you remember that in each budgetary procedure, when we adopt the budget at second reading, we are making such a proposal in this House, which, of course, is not accepted. However, the failure to accept such a proposal, i.e. the adoption of the general framework of the budget: revenue and expenditure at the beginning, in art. 1 makes the discussion virtually meaningless, makes the debate meaningless in plenary, including, if you will, depreciate the legislative initiative, restricts the legislative initiative of the MPs, that is, the proposals put in between first and second readings, as the thesis is that once the common framework has been adopted, nothing can change. For information only, perhaps more of you were municipal councillors, municipal budgets are accepted just like that. First, the various budget items are voted on, then the proposals that have further entered the Chamber, or the committees proposed by the municipal councillors, which have been adopted, complement the general framework of the budget. This will prevent another wicked practice over the years. You remember, almost every budgetary procedure at second reading, we have cases that require the torture of the Rules of the National Assembly. Why should one text and one opposition proposal, which happened to be past, not be accepted? You remember two years ago the proposal for the renovation of Bulgarian Orthodox temples for 2 and a half million was adopted after the general framework of the budget was adopted. Then what happened in plenary? There were chairmanial councils, there was an interruption of meetings, a first vote, a second vote... [[Heckling]] The third was last year. It is indeed a problem when the general framework of the budget is voted once. Then, naturally, the government immediately wants a re-vote and it is fixed, meaning it cannot change. There were, of course, counterarguments in the Commission from the Ministry that we cannot and should not violate the budget balance that has been adopted. However, in each budget, and accordingly, of course, when a Member of the National Assembly proposes a change in some indicator of revenue or expenditure, it must say where to come from this funding, in which other item to increase or reduce respectively revenue or expenditure. That, of course, has a solution. There are buffers in each budget. As an example, I will give you art. 1 in the expenditure of the budget, where n. 5 stands one feather, which has remained unchanged for the last seven years. It shall be a contingency and/or emergency reserve. That is, if, in the debate at the second reading of the budget, however, some random opposition proposal passes for an increase in a given expenditure, quite naturally in point. 5 these exceptional costs may be reduced by the corresponding amount. Then there will be no problems and the balance will be preserved. I think we've made enough arguments as to why. It is most logical and correct, after discussing all the proposals, to finally fix the general framework of the state budget. Last but not least in art. 109 we are making the following proposal in order not to mislead me, I will quote: The Constitution defines budgetary public relations as fundamental with the highest degree of importance. It introduces the principle that the regulatory acts governing these relations may not be any other than legitimate. Only a law can regulate these relations in principle. It is unacceptable for the primary system of law. Even less acceptable is the possibility of an arrangement with a clear and indeterminate act of the Council of Ministers on the basis of which the government can change budgetary relations. In the current provision of art. 109, para. 3, it regulates the possibility for the Council of Ministers to approve additional costs and transfers on the sole condition and restriction of not disturbing the balance of the state budget, naturally creating real prerequisites for vicious practice. That is, depending on its party biases and political preferences, the Council of Ministers should give to some but not to others. So we only want to define it as an exception. Such additional costs and transfers shall amount in year up to 1% of the estimate of revenue under the consolidated fiscal programme. Everything else we think should go as an update through the National Assembly. Now I'm going to give you some facts about this. During the last three years the 2017, 2018 and 2019 budget expenditures adopted by the State Budget Act were then reassigned by a decree of the Council of Ministers? The expenditure in the 2017 State Budget Act is slightly over 11 billion. lv. At the same time, in the same year 2017, the Council of Ministers decreed that they were restructuring under the central budget and internal compensatory costs of 2 billion. The Commission therefore concludes This is 20% of the costs, which are established by an act of the National Assembly, with the adoption of the State Budget Act. In 2018, almost 12 billion expenditures were put at stake over 3 billion. 200 million. lv. Restructuring costs of the central budget with a decision of the Council of Ministers...... 27%. Now, pay attention to the previous "2019," given that at the beginning of December we have adopted a government spending of just over 13 billion. 300 million. BGN, in 2019 itself, by decree of the Council of Ministers 4 billion were reassigned. 500 million. lv. This is 33.8% of the costs that we have established, that is, a third of the costs that we have allocated by decision of the National Assembly on the corresponding items. Then the Council of Ministers decided something else. I'm asking what budgeting? What forecast is the one that gives the Ministry of Finance and imports the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria, respectively the other two smaller budgets, after by decree of the Council of Ministers outside the National Assembly distributes more than one third of them? Therefore, and that concludes, our proposal is that up to 1% of the revenue can be distributed by the Council of Ministers. Everything else to enter the National Assembly, to be discussed, to be analyzed, to be judged for who, how, when and by an act of the National Assembly to be taken as a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u101	Thank you, Mr. Tishev. Are there any lines on Mr. Tishev's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u102	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I call for the support of the proposal presented by Mr. Tishev just now, because we must realise that the State Budget Act is not a door in the field. We cannot accept here with you some state spending for the next year, and then someone else without any motivation, without any explanation to spend the money on the people we distribute and who collect the state through the taxes paid by them for something else, something else he, some sort of vague way, has considered necessary. What is currently done in the Law, which has it as a legal text in the Public Finance Act, gives the Council of Ministers a real opportunity to make extraordinary expenses when the state needs them. Look what's happening. From June to September, by decree of the Council of Ministers in the form of extraordinary expenditure, the state has spent more than 2 billion. lv. Mostly, as the colleague said, on the schematics from the prime minister's jeep window. What, though, do these extraordinary costs include? Nearly 900 million. lv. of these 2 billion. $100,000. BGN spent in three months were given for repair and construction of roads. What's extraordinary about this situation? What exactly can we not plan when it comes to repairing and building roads and road infrastructure? We therefore call for us to really return to that discipline, to that order created in our parliamentary Republic, where decisions are made here in the National Assembly and limit the possibility of spending money in a promiscuous way. Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u103	Thank you, Mr. Danchev. Are there any lines to Mr. Danchev's statement? I can't see. Are there any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u104	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Colleagues have tried quite thoroughly before me, not to say academically, with figures, with arguments to explain why these amendments to the Public Finance Act are essential. I'm gonna give it another shot, I hope you understand. Next week, honourable Members, we are about to vote on the state budget. One part of the changes that we are commenting on today with what has been tabled by the group of the BSP for Bulgaria is about the adoption of the state budget. Simply put, we are trying to spare you the headaches and circus that you will create next week. What do I mean? You adopted at first reading a budget which turned out not to be the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria. It turns out that this is not the budget that is in the Prime Minister's head, because in this country right now the issue is serious.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u105	Mr. Ivanov, the law is about public finances...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u106	I'm explaining, Mr. Chairman, what the amendments to the Public Finance Act are about. They concern the way the State Budget Act is adopted. Colleagues can understand what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u107	I'm thinking of you not to get carried away.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u108	No, I'm not getting carried away, Mr. Chairman. Read the paragraphs a little more carefully and you'll understand what I'm talking about. Read them very carefully because they concern precisely the way the state budget is adopted, which is made next week at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u109	Go on, don't waste your time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u110	That's right. Let's not have a dialogue with you from the stands. Because it turns out, colleagues, that this budget, which was adopted at first reading, is not your budget, this is the Prime Minister's budget. Unfortunately, we haven't been a parliamentary republic for a long time. We have some kind of hybrid, and we've said it to a rubber stamp. It turns out that between first and second readings you will submit a bunch of proposals. The danger of breaking the budget framework at all is very great. I am talking about this change that we are proposing now, first to vote on changes in different ministries, on the paragraphs and then to vote on the general framework of the budget. Every year, honourable Members, we have a case in which it is accepted, including the opposition, a proposal, and you are wondering how to fix it. We're doing a three-way, four-way, five-way rethink. We're doing this for you, at least, so you can save yourself the inconvenience. Because as far as I understand the Prime Minister, you didn't like what you brought in as a proposal for a budget at first reading, you also submitted a bunch of other proposals. You're gonna make a mess that isn't here till 5:00 in the morning, and three days of sitting around 24/7, we can't fix it. Therefore, accept our proposals. First, to adopt all these amendments to the State Budget Act, which concern the proposal between first and second readings. Then to adopt the common framework, so that we do not enter into these assumptions, to file complaints with the Constitutional Court, which we have done before. [[Replying, noise.]] Another, colleagues, if this way of government of the state pleases you, Bulgarian citizens do not like it at all. You'll feel it in just a few months, but let's get back to the subject. The other part is spending money from the Council of Ministers. Excuse me, but at least think about the life and health of all ministers and deputy ministers who ride with the SUV with the Prime Minister, because from his last ride a pile of ministers and deputy ministers entered the hospital with the Covid-19. At least from the National Assembly to save these...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u111	Come on, if you like specific texts...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u112	Yes, this text, Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u113	Okay. I'm warning you, you're going too far.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u114	...we are taking a decision in which we can decide today the National Assembly to spend this money, which is currently being spent by the Prime Minister. That's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u115	Second reading you have text by text, section by section. Where did you go in the SUVs? [[Heckling]] Please, you have texts to say.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u116	That's right, because that $2 billion was spent in SUVs, Mr. Leading the meeting. They've been spent! To save this inconvenience to all others and to allow fellow Members of the Budget Committee, the Committee on Economic Policy and all other Members of Parliament to be empathetic in the budgetary process. They should be able to deal with their areas, distribute these funds here, and each one should take account of what needs to be spent on the state budget that voted on this National Assembly, and you, colleagues. That's what we're talking about. And I ask you, a third year in a row, we appeal to a self-awareness to you to address your constituents as MPs of your area, and here to vote on these costs. Not to transfer it to the Council of Ministers and there uncontrollably spend it and no one can say, "Well, that money was given to this one, and the other one didn't!♪ You must be the ones who bear commitment and responsibility ♪ That's what this is about. If you understand and understand the speaker before, you will vote for the speaker. Otherwise, your presence here is really meaningless and you will all be on this screen here online. Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u117	Your time, Mr. Ivanov. Thank you. Are there lines? I can't see. Mrs. Ilieva, come in for a speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! I'm going to try, without a claim of academicity, to stick to expertise. In fact, I have a concern that some of my fellow Members have not understood exactly what the amendments to the Public Finance Act are, because they are directly linked to the budgetary effect, the costs associated with overcoming the Kosovo crisis, and I would hardly surprise anyone if I said that it was an emergency situation. However, anyway, since we have adopted this way of speaking on all the proposals at once, I will only refer briefly to some of the texts proposed by my fellow Members, justifying why they are actually unacceptable. I may not be going in a row, but I will begin with the proposal for a change in the order of the so-called art. 1 or t. 1 referred to in the Public Finance Act, which gives the general budgetary framework. To justify why, colleagues, this is not just a number as you believe, and that listed below... In fact, the content of the budget, the costs that are mentioned, is not a mathematical formula, it is not A + B = C, so we look for an effective quantity, but it is about financial indicators and fiscal policy. And here I will remind you, because there was a question raised about whose power to set the budget is, what is really the.................... is a financial framework, the budget is a plan that implements the government's policies in practice, in the case of the ruling majority. So we can hardly blame the Council of Ministers for bringing the budget to the National Assembly. I would also like to remind you, except that it is not an effective amount art. 1, it is the result, first of all, of politics, as I said, fiscal policy. Secondly, in line with macroeconomic indicators, with a macroeconomic forecast, with a medium-term budget forecast, which means that this is not just a number at a certain point, it is part of a comprehensive vision, usually a three-year medium-term forecast directly linked to specific policies. and the provisions of art. 86 in which you want a change, in fact determine the indicators on which the state budget and its content are adopted. They don't define order. However, the logic of adopting the budget in this way is precisely that the framework is first given. After that, it is not true that no proposals can be made. Of course, they can be done, only they must be tailored to the overall preservation of the balance of the budget. In this sense, these indicators, again I say, are leading, they define fiscal policy and aligning them, and the effective magnitude poses a risk of budget imbalance. As far as the Member's concerns regarding the unconstitutionality of the texts are concerned, I will allow myself to quote you with a decision of the Constitutional Court of 2018, which says the following: The budgetary law adopts a public finance management plan based on objective indicators and forecasts for economic development within a certain period of time. A fundamental principle in budgeting is the achievement of a balance between revenue and expenditure, where each expenditure has a clearly defined financial source. A law which provides for the spending of funds outside the adopted general budgetary framework, including the established balance, would be inherently contradictory and thus incompatible with the rule of law under Article 3. 4, para. So, colleagues, there is no way that we should not vote first on the framework and then continue with the content. With regard to the text you are proposing to drop art. 55a, governing the relations of the central budget and municipalities, I will make the following clarifications: yes, it is, the relationships of the municipalities with the central budget are regulated in art. 51. These include the main subsidy, the matching subsidy, the capital subsidy, only that these are not all the costs of municipalities that occur in one reporting period. Municipalities have much more functions, much more activities, some of them delegated by the state, such as policies in specific areas, say, in pre-school and school education. Why can't these funds be directly budgeted on their budgets? Because these funds are implemented and managed by the Ministry of Education, in the case of this policy, which I quote. In other words, the policy is implemented by another body.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u119	Get it over with, Mrs. Ilieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u120	Why can't it be done in advance? Because it depends on natural indicators that are time variables. Also, colleagues, again on the occasion of your concerns, that, you see, they have distributed funds to municipalities on the prudent ones, which are subjective, I would like to remind you that in 2018, the National Assembly commissioned an audit of compliance of the costs distributed with additional transfers, with the Order of the Council of Ministers and this audit of the Court of Auditors did not establish any violations. Moreover, it was said in the audit that there was a line by which the additional redistribution of funds is determined and that 40 senior officers did not receive funds, not because these are ours or your municipalities, as you called them, but because they do not meet the specified criteria, i.e. there is a certain order. And on the last text in which colleagues want a change. 109, para. 3. The main thing you point out in this text is not to disrupt the balance of the consolidated fiscal programme. Colleagues, the text currently in the Public Finance Act refers to the balance of the state budget. And I really feel like you're not making a difference between a state budget and a consolidated fiscal programme. Therefore, to make it clear to all colleagues in this House, I will make only one clarification: the state budget is part of the consolidated fiscal programme, undoubtedly, only that the central budget is included, the budgets of the judiciary, of the National Assembly, of the executive bodies. But the consolidated fiscal programme is much wider. It includes the budgets of social security funds, the budgets of municipalities, the budgets of autonomous bodies, which are created by special laws. That is, by expanding this scope, whether it is up to 1%, you are entering an autonomous budget that is created by special laws. So this is another reason why this text should not be adopted. And I say again, fellow Members, get acquainted with the Court of Auditors' report to see that these costs are legitimately justified, that no violations have been detected.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u121	When you speak, it is good to announce how many paragraphs you will speak, because you spoke three paragraphs. That's why I extended your time. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u122	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Ilieva, thank you for your expertise and lecture in the way in which you tried to educate the opposition, but I just want to ask you a few questions. If you answer me, I'll take it. First, I ask you to answer: between first and second readings, i.e. next week, what you will accept by e. 1 of the State Budget Act? What will you bring in and what will you accept? What we're going to take from here on down, because you don't know yourself. I'm convinced of this thing. I'm going to give you some examples: The budget law of the Ministry of Interior, well, it turns out it wasn't the one you imported. Turns out the Prime Minister has a different view. [[GERB lines.]] You never know. If something happens inside the Chamber and the Prime Minister calls you, and you have accepted the first point with one frame, and he says: "We will not increase wages by 15%, but by 30%, what do we do?"
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u123	Mr. Ivanov, what is your disagreement about the speech before you?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u124	Because, Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u125	What's your disagreement?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u126	... when taken t. 1 from the state budget, from then on the budgets of the different ministries cannot be changed. You were the only witness.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u127	We know that, but the question is what is your disagreement?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u128	That's right. That's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u129	You have a line right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u130	I am trying to convince my colleagues that I disagree with Mrs. Ilieva, with her claims that when you accept this point. One, it's okay to make mistakes after that, which is a problem. Because they can't explain themselves. And Mrs. Ilieva, if she tells me exactly what they're bringing in next week, what we're voting for in this room, I'll understand her. I'm sure she can't explain it to me. Moreover, Mrs. Ilieva, explain to me how the mayor of the municipality X stood next to the mayor of the municipality n and the municipality x received four million, and the municipality n received zero million leva because she had no access to the right person to the prime minister, and the jeep did not go there. How do we explain to one mayor that he got four million for a gym and the other one got nothing because nobody put him on the jeep?! So this is what I want you to explain to me: what is the difference between x and n? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u131	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. You can play outside this room for questions and answers. You have the right to a You're asking a question. [[Replication of MP Ivan Valentinov Ivanov away from the microphones.]] Mrs. Ilieva may not answer you, if she wants to ask questions, she may answer as she wishes. Here you go, Mr. Tishev. Put your disagreement on the statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u132	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Ilieva, I have listened with interest to your speech. I will take note of one of your points that the generalized indicators of the budget must be voted first. Well, to tell you the truth, this is completely contrary to the thesis that Mr. Goranov, while he was Minister of Finance, was defending from this tribune last year. His thesis was that once the framework was adopted, nothing else could be touched down, and therefore all opposition proposals were rejected, and not only the opposition, including your coalition partners. We are making this proposal, as Mr. Ivanov said, to save you some pain, because last year, if you remember, at second reading, when we changed the amount of the... an hour meeting of the two Patriots.................................................................................! And Mr. Simeonov was in it, too, wasn't he?! Because you can't change the framework, and there are other costs, and then we came back that second, that third vote and so on. If the framework were left for the last time, quite calmly and we could correct it with the amount that the majority in the National Assembly accepted and would not have such latenight meetings. That's why we're offering it, not to pick on it or anything else. Plus, that's the most logical thing to do, not to twist our hands and once it's over, art. 1, then to say: this proposal cannot pass, the balance is broken, the other proposal cannot pass. That's our idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u133	Thank you. Is there another line? I won't. Would you like to use the back? Here you go, Mrs. Ilieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u134	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am afraid that I have not been well understood by my colleagues, saying, first of all, that the general framework of the budget is not just a number, it is not an effective number of amounts down on budgets. This is not formula A + B = C, I repeat it again. This is fiscal policy, these are fiscal indicators that are in line, I repeat, with the macroeconomic framework, with macroeconomic indicators. Last but not least, there has been a long co-ordination of this framework with all the chief authorising officers with a budget. Because that's the budget procedure. The budget shall be agreed with the chief authorising officers with a budget. As to whether or not changes can subsequently be made, I said so in my speech. Maybe, but while maintaining the general framework of the budget. This is a fundamental principle in budgeting, colleagues, a fundamental principle in public finances, and I apologise for the expertise I have to show.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u135	Thank you, Mrs. Ilieva. I'm adjourned for 30 minutes. Your speech will be after the break at 12:30. [[After the break]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u136	We're continuing the hearing. There is a statement made by a member of parliament who is absent at the moment, so we believe he has given up his speech. Are there any other speeches? [[Comments from GERB: "No! "]] I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. We're going to vote. I shall put to the vote proposals a new § 5a, rejected by the Commission in relation to art. 55. The proposal is from the MP Valentin Lambev and a group of MPs. Vote 88 MPs: 11 against 72, abstention 5. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 6 in the version of the Commission. Please include the biometrics of BSP colleagues, because something mass cannot vote. There's two people who can't vote. There's four of them, I see.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u137	How exactly are there four of them?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u138	Please put on the mask as recommended by Mr. Ivan Ivanov of your group not to see you up on the screen. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Put your mask on! Abort the vote. Vote 94 MPs: 83 against 6, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Valentin Lambev, Nikolay Tishev, Svetla Bachvarova, Ivan Ivanov and Georgi Svilenski for the creation of a new § 6a.....................................................................................of the Commission................................................................................................................................................. Vote 100 MPs: 19 against 77, abstention 4. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the same Members of Parliament for the creation of a new § 6b, rejected by the Commission. They voted 106 MPs: 19 against 81, abstention 6. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u139	Revoting procedure. Revoting! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u140	On the stands, please. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Zarkov, the word is given at the request of a place of hands. You can't scream from the stairs. Here you go, the stands are yours.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u141	Dear Mr. Chairman, I request a re-voting procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u142	Revoting the proposal of the MPs Valentin Lambev, Nikolay Tishev, Svetla Bachvarova, Ivan Ivanov and Georgi Svilenski for the creation of a new § 6b. Vote 117 MPs: 29, against 83, abstention 5. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u143	In groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u144	What do you want? In groups, please show in groups. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the same Members of Parliament for the creation of a new § 6c, rejected by the Commission. Vote 117 MPs: 29, against 81, abstention 7. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the same Members of Parliament for the creation of a new § 6d, rejected by the Commission. They voted 114 MPs: 28, against 82, abstention 4. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the same Members of Parliament for the creation of a new § 6e, rejected by the Commission. They voted 114 MPs: 31, against 77, abstention 6. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the same group of MPs for the creation of a new § 6f, rejected by the Commission. They voted 114 MPs: 30, against 78, abstention 6. The offer is not accepted. And the last proposal of the same Members of Parliament is for the creation of § 6g, rejected by the Commission. Vote 112 MPs: 28 against 78, abstention 6. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u145	'Concluding provisions'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. According to § 7 there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7: .................................................... In the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2020 (prom., D.V., No. ...) the following additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, 2. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 102: Art. 102. The Council of Ministers may approve additional costs/transfers and/or increases of the indicators under art. 86, para. 2, p. 5 and 6 of the Public Finance Act for the budgets of the chief authorising officers with a budget, including under the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund on account of cost savings and/or transfers to the budgets of other senior authorising officers with a budget for the financing of activities related to prevention of the spread of COVID-19, the treatment of infected persons or the limitation of the consequences of COVID-19. Paragraph 8. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u146	Statements? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for the name of the subdivision; the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 7 and the text of the importer for § 8. Vote 117 MPs: 90 against 25 abstentions 2. The proposals have been accepted. Procedure Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u147	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, procedure on the basis of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the deadline for proposals under the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act 002 01-57, submitted on 27 October 2020, and voted on first reading in the Chamber on 5 November 2020, the deadline shall be eight days.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u148	Thank you. I shall put the proposal to the vote. They voted 115 MPs: 91 against 1, abstention 23. The motion is accepted. Let's continue with: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE ARMY, THE FEATURES, THE TRANSPARENT INGREDIENTS AND THE PYROTECHIC ARTICLES. Importer of the People's Representative Manoil Manev and group of MPs. You have the floor, dear Mr. Tsipov, for the presentation of the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, please allow: Mr. Milko Berner, Deputy Minister of Interior, Senior Commissioner Todor Grebenarov, Deputy Director of the Directorate General, National Police.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u150	I shall put the proposal to the vote. Vote 109 MPs: 104 against 2, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Please continue, Mr. Tzipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. According to § 1, there is a proposal of the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy and Yordan Yordanov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov: It's being created. ????????????????? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4, para. 2 the words "or can be processed' shall be replaced by "or processed'. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4 the following 1. In para. 6 words "constructive protocol" issued by the persons referred to in art. 133 and the call for proposals shall be replaced by the issuing of a consolidated report and the marking of the weapon by the persons referred to in art. 133. 2. The creation of para. 9. The technical specifications of the limited-action firearms shall ensure that they cannot be processed in such a way as to produce a bullet or projectile fire by means of an explosive with a ammunition other than that for which they are designed and manufactured. Compliance with the technical specifications shall be certified by the manufacturer. The Commission proposes to create a new § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4a, para. 4 the words "repair" shall be replaced by "repair" and the persons under art. 133 are carried out and a sentence is created second: "When the inspection is carried out by the persons referred to in art. 133, the same shall ensure that there is a clear separation of those tasks and of the natural persons carrying out the decommissioning. According to § 2 there is a proposal of the National Representative Ivan Ivanov and a group of MPs is The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 2 which becomes § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5 the following 1. In para. 1, t. At the end of the day, a gun collection is added. 2. In para. 2 after the word "collection" is added. Proposal of the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy and Yordan Yordanov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal The Commission proposes to create a new § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2 words for self-defense shall be deleted, the number of.51s shall be replaced by.44s and finally a comma shall be placed and............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 2. In para. 3: (a) in the text before t. 1 after the word,.collection.. is added and weapons (b) c. 2 the number (c) c. 5 after the word "collection" is added "arms collection"; (d) shall be established. 7. "7." for self-defense short-arms with limited barrel length up to 30 centimetres and up to 50 ammunition for each firearm. Proposal of the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs: It's being created. ????????????????? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9, para. 2 after the word The Commission does not support the proposal. Under § 3 there is a proposal of the MP Ivan Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 3 be rejected. According to § 4, there is a proposal of the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy and Yordan Yordanov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Dilyan Dimitrov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4, which shall become § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 11 the following 1. In para. 1 after the word "Authorised' the words "Authorised' shall be added, and finally a comma shall be placed and added, with the exception of the production of weapons, ammunition, explosives and "Administratives'. 2. In para. 2, p. 1 the words s and details of the certificates issued under art. 13, para. The information referred to in point (a) of paragraph 1 shall be transmitted to the competent authority of the Member State in which the authorisation was granted. 3. The creation of para. 6: * Data under para. 2 shall be collected, stored and processed electronically. Proposal of the National Representative Plamen Tachev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 6: ........................................................... Article 3 is Art. 11a. (1) The Ministry of Economy shall establish and maintain a register of natural and legal persons authorised or certified for the production of weapons, ammunition, explosives and pyrotechnic articles. (2) The register under para. 1 contains: 1. details of the authorisations issued under art. 13, para. 1, refusals to issue and details of the certificates issued under art. 13, para. 4; 2. the data included in the authorisations/certificates identifying the persons to whom they were issued; 3. date and number of the authorisation/certificate which has been terminated due to termination of the activity of the person; 4. identification of firearms and their ammunition, explosive identification data and the category of pyrotechnic articles included in the authorisations/certificates issued, as well as data on the type, brand, calibre and serial number of pneumatic and warning and signalling weapons; 5. data on all processing or modifications of firearms leading to a change in its category; 6. details of the quantities of explosives and pyrotechnic articles and the number of firearms and their ammunition included in the authorisations/certificates issued; 7. data on scrapped and destroyed explosives, pyrotechnic articles, weapons and ammunition; data on weapons and ammunition 8. data on the administrative offences committed, penalties imposed on them and/or enforcement measures under this law. (3) The data under para. 2 on explosives, ammunition and pyrotechnic articles shall be kept for a period of 20 years after the date of their entry in the register. The data under para. 2 concerning firearms and essential components, including related personal data, shall be stored for 30 years after the date of destruction of firearms or essential components. (4) The data under para. 2 on firearms and essential components may be made available upon request to the customs authorities for up to 10 years after the date of the destruction of the firearms or of its essential components and to the criminal proceedings authorities for up to 30 years. Proposal of the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy and Yordan Yordanov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Plamen Nunev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 1 shall be added at the end, with the exception of the activities in the order of Chapter Two. (b) c. 3 Finally, the issue of permits and certificates for the activities under Chapter 2 shall be added. 2. In para. 2 words. 1, t. 1 "8a" shall be replaced by "al." 1, t. One, two, four, five, six, seven, eight, and eight, and after the words of the Ministry of Interior, a comma is placed and the means under para. 1, t. 3 are entered under the budget of the Ministry of Economy. 3. The creation of para. 3: . (3) Fees under para. 1 can be paid by electronic means. Proposal of the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy and Yordan Yordanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13 the following 1. In para. 1 and 4 words are replaced by the Minister of Economy. 2. A new para is being created. 6: The procedure for requesting and issuing a production authorisation may be carried out by electronic means. The Commission proposes to create a new § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15, para. 1 the words the Director of the Directorate-General of the Ministry of Interior is replaced by the Minister of Economy Proposal of the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy and Yordan Yordanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 16 after the word "send" is added either by e-mail and the words "supplier of the Directorate-General of the Ministry of Interior" are replaced by "the Minister of Economy." Proposal of the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy and Yordan Yordanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 11: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 17 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1, in the text before t. 1 after the word "supposed" is added either by e-mail and the words "the Director of the Directorate-General of the Ministry of Interior" are replaced by "the Minister of Economy." 2. In para. 3 and 5 words are replaced by the Minister of Economy. Proposal of the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy and Yordan Yordanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 12: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 17a, para. 1, in the text before t. 1 after the word "sub-sub-sub-paragraphs" shall be added either by e-mail or by e-mail. Proposal of the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy and Yordan Yordanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 18, in the text before t. 1 after the word "supposed" is added either by e-mail and the words "Secretary of the Ministry of Interior" are replaced by "the Minister of Economy."
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u152	Statements? Here you are, Mr. Bogdanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u153	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The proposal that I have made in relation to the wording of the concept of Firearms, what I propose to change, will affect the activities of military-patriotic organizations, historic reenactments clubs, collectors. In the proposed bill, the wording is a weapon that can be revised in such a way as to make a shot, but since we do not see in this case an act carried out, that is to say there is or has no intention, or hypothetically this thing can happen, but it is not performed as an act, I suggest that the formula be changed to the following version, which is processed to produce a shot. Then the weapon in question may already be subject to such registration under the relevant law, which shall be designated as firearms, but in case it has already been revised in order to be able to produce a shot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u154	Thank you, Mr. Bogdanov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the division. They voted 104 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov. They voted 102 MPs: 17 against 18 abstention 67. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 1 and the Commission's proposal to create a new § 2 with a text on the Commission report. Vote 108 MPs: for 106, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Ivan Ivanov and a group of MPs. They voted 107 MPs: 30, against 52, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 2, which shall become § 3, and the Commission's proposal to create a new § 4, with a text on the Commission report. They voted 102 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Milen Mihov. They voted 108 MPs: 17 against 3, abstention 88. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for the rejection of § 3 by importer. They voted 106 MPs: for 105, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the following texts: the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 4, which becomes § 5; the Commission's proposal to create a new § 6 with the text on the Commission Report; the Commission's proposal to create a new § 7 with a text on the Commission Report; the Commission's proposal to create two new paragraphs 8 and 9 with a text on the Commission Report; the Commission's proposal to create new paragraphs 10, 11, 12 and 13 with a text on the Commission Report. Vote 101 MPs: 77, against 22, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u155	According to § 5, there is a proposal from the National Representative Ivan Ivanov § 5 dropped out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy and Yordan Yordanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 5, which becomes § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 19 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 the words the Minister of Interior is replaced by the Minister of Economy. 2. In para. The second sentence of the second sentence is replaced by the Minister of Interior and, finally, the functions assigned by this law and other legal acts of the offices represented by the Commission. 3. In para. 3 after the word "letters" shall be added by electronic means. 4. In para. 5 words The Director of the Ministry of Interior Directorate shall be replaced by the Minister of Economy and after the word the Director of the Ministry of Interior shall be added by e-mail or e-mail. According to § 6 there is a proposal of the National Representative Ivan Ivanov and a group of MPs The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy and Yordan Yordanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 20 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 words of the Ministry of Interior's GDP shall be replaced by the Ministry of Economy. 2. In para. 2 the words "MVR's GDP" shall be replaced by "the economy's' and after the word "written' shall be added by electronic means. 3. In para. 4 words The Director of the Ministry of Interior Directorate shall be replaced by the Minister of Economy and after the word the Director of the Ministry of Interior shall be added by e-mail or e-mail. According to § 7 there is a proposal of the MP Ivan Ivanov and a group of MPs................................................................................................... The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy and Yordan Yordanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7, which shall become § 16: ......... 16........................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 23 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1, in the text before t. 1 after the word "inquiry" is added by e-mail or by e-mail, and the words "GDNP of the Ministry of Interior" shall be replaced by the "Economic Ministry of Economy." 2. In para. 4 words The Director of the Directorate-General of the Ministry of Interior is replaced by the Minister of Economy. Proposal of the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy and Yordan Yordanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 17: Seventeen. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the word "send" is added either by e-mail and the words "supplier of the Directorate-General of the Ministry of Interior" are replaced by "the Minister of Economy." 2. In para. 2 the words the Director of the Directorate-General of the Interior of the Ministry of Interior shall be replaced by the Minister of Economy. 3. In para. 4 words The Director of the Directorate-General of the Ministry of Interior is replaced by the Minister of Economy. Under § 8 there is a proposal from the National Representative Ivan Ivanov and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 8 is out." The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8, which shall become § 18: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 31 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 2 the words the Director of the Directorate-General of the Interior of the Ministry of Interior shall be replaced by the Minister of Economy. 2. In para. 3 the words the authorities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs shall be replaced by the Ministry of Economic Affairs. 3. In para. 4 the words the relevant authority of the Ministry of Interior shall be replaced by the....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 4. In para. 5 words................................................................................. the following points are inserted after point (a) Under § 9 there is a proposal of the MP Ivan Ivanov and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 9" is out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy and Yordan Yordanov. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 2 and does not support it by t. 1: A new paragraph is being created: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is 1. in para. 2 after the word The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9, which shall become § 19: "Seriously, I'm In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 33 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Alinea 3 is canceled. 2. In para. 4 the words the authorities of the Ministry of Interior shall be replaced by the Ministry of Economy. 3. In para. 5 the words "the relevant authority of the Ministry of Interior" shall be replaced by "the Ministry of Economy." 4. In para. 6 words................................................................................. the following points are inserted after point (a) According to § 10 there is a proposal of the MP Ivan Ivanov and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 10" is out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10, which shall become § 20: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 34, para. 2, in the text before t. 1 the words the authorities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs shall be replaced by the Proposal of the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy and Yordan Yordanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 21: .................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 35 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: . (4) Fighting supplies kl. 1.4, as recommended by the United Nations for the transport of dangerous goods, may be stored in weapons storage warehouses complying with the technical rules and regulations for the design of constructions intended for the manufacture and storage of explosives, weapons, ammunition and pyrotechnic articles under the Law on the Construction of the Area and in accordance with the Law on the Protection of the Environment. 2. The creation of para. 7. The procedure for requesting and issuing a marketing authorisation shall be carried out either in writing or by electronic means. Proposal of the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy and Yordan Yordanov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 37 in the text before t. 1 after the word "sub-sub-sub-paragraphs" shall be added either by e-mail or by e-mail. Proposal of the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy and Yordan Yordanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 23: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 38 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 2 after the word "letters" shall be added by electronic means. 2. In para. 4 after the word "Signature" shall be added either by e-mail or by Proposal of the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy and Yordan Yordanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 24: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 40, para. 1 after the word Proposal of the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy and Yordan Yordanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 41 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 1, in the text before t. 1 after the word "Notify".. shall be added either by e-mail or by e-mail. 2. In para. 4 after the word "Reflections" shall be added either by e-mail or by e-mail. Proposal of the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy and Yordan Yordanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 26: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 42 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the word "sends" is added either by e-mail or by e-mail. 2. In para. 4 after the word "Signature" shall be added either by e-mail or by
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u156	Thank you, Mr. Tzipov. Statements? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Ivan Ivanov and a group of MPs. They voted 111 MPs: 33, against 69, abstentioned 9. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 5, which becomes § 14. They voted 102 MPs: for 76, against 22, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Ivan Ivanov and a group of MPs. Vote 108 MPs: 31, against 72, abstention 5. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 6, which shall become § 15. 100 MPs voted: 74, against 20, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Ivan Ivanov and a group of MPs. They voted 99 MPs: 25, against 67, abstention 7. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 7, which becomes § 16. They voted 105 MPs: 80 against 16, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. We are now voting on the proposal to create § 17 with a text on the Commission report. They voted 99 MPs: 82, against 15, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. We are voting on the proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Ivan Ivanov and a group of MPs not supported by the Commission. Voted 103 MPs: 26, against 72, abstention 5. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission of the wording of § 8, which shall become § 18. They voted 105 MPs: 83, against 20, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Ivan Ivanov and a group of MPs. They voted 105 MPs: 24, against 77, abstention 4. The offer is not accepted. I now vote on the proposal of the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy and Yordan Yordanov in the unsupported part of the Commission. They voted 100 MPs: 14 against 47, abstention 39. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 9, which shall become § 19. Vote 101 MPs: 75 against 19, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal of the National Representative Ivan Ivanov. Vote 101 MPs: 30, against 68, abstention 3. The offer is not accepted. I now put to the vote the following texts: the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 10, which becomes § 20; the Commission proposal to create a new § 21 with a text on the Commission Report; the Commission proposal to create a new § 22 with a text on the Commission Report; a proposal to create a new § 23 with a text on the Commission Report; a proposal to create a new § 24 with a text on the Commission Report; a proposal to create a new § 25 with a text on the Commission Report and a proposal to create a new § 26 with a text on the Commission Report. Please, voting mode. They voted 107 MPs: 79, against 24, abstention 4. The proposed texts have been adopted. Please continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u157	Mr President, before we proceed, allow me to propose that the working time of the plenary be extended to the discussion and conclusion of this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u158	Thank you. I shall put the proposal to the vote. 100 MPs voted: 79 against 15, abstentioned 6. The motion is accepted. Please continue with the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u159	Proposal of the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy and Yordan Yordanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 27: "The Bible says: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 45 para. 2 is Proposal of the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy and Yordan Yordanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 28: ....... 28........................................... 28 In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 46 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the word supplied is added either by e-mail or by e-mail. 2. In para. 2 after the word "Presents', is added either by e-mail or by e-mail. Proposal of the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy and Yordan Yordanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 29: ........................ 29...................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 50 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 4 after the word "sends" is added either by e-mail or by e-mail. 2. A new para is being created. 5. The application for authorisation for the acquisition and/or storage of firearms, explosives and pyrotechnic articles and the authorisation shall be made in writing or by electronic means. Proposal of the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy and Yordan Yordanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 30: 30. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 51 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the words "legislation of another Member State" "physical persons who are nationals of a third country" shall be added and after the word "signed" shall be added either electronically or written. 2. In para. 2 and 3 after the word Proposal of the National Representative Manoil Manev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 31: ........................ 31...................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 53a: Art. 53a. For copies of weapons under art. 4, para. 2, p. 3 is not required to issue an acquisition permit. Proposal of the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy and Yordan Yordanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 32: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 54 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the words "citizens of a third country resident in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria" "physical persons who are nationals of a third country" and after the word "letters" are added "or by electronic means." 2. In para. 2 after the word "Notify" the notice is added either by e-mail or by e-mail. 3. In para. 4 after the word "Signature" shall be added either by e-mail or by Proposal of the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy and Yordan Yordanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 33: ................................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 55 after the word "letters" shall be added by electronic means. Proposal of the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy and Yordan Yordanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 34: ................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 56 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the word "sweep" is added either by e-mail or by e-mail. 2. In para. 3 after the word "Signature" is added either by e-mail or by e-mail. 3. In para. 4 after the word "sub-sub-types" is added either by e-mail or by e-mail. Proposal of the National Representative Manoil Manev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 35: .............................................................................. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 56a: Art. 56a. (1) The persons referred to in art. 56, para. 1? 3 can store copies of weapons under art. 4, para. 2, p. 3, without the need to grant them a storage permit. (2) The persons referred to in art. 56, para. 1? 3 can use copies of weapons under art. 4, para. 2, p. 3 for cultural purposes, reconstructions or sports activities after obtaining a wear and use authorisation issued by the Director of the Directorate-General of the Ministry of Interior or by an official authorised by him or the Head of the Ministry of Interior of the Interior at the permanent address of the person. Proposal of the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy and Yordan Yordanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 36: ................................ 36.................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 57, para. 1 after the word "letters" shall be added by electronic means. Proposal of the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 2 and does not support it by t. 1.: A new § is being created...: §... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by 1. in t. 2 the words "or against him" have been charged with such a crime. The Commission proposes to create a new § 37: ...... 37........................................................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 58, para. 1, t. 10 after the word "collection" is added. Proposal of the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs: A new § is being created...: ????????????????? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The 59th para . (4) Persons who have found or stored firearms and essential components of systems manufactured or developed by the end of World War II shall be required to register them within 7 days at the DMNP of the Ministry of Interior or at the Ministry of Interior at a permanent address. When registering the person who found the weapon may: 1. request that he be granted permission to store a firearm in the appropriate order and that the weapon remain its property; 2. provide the weapon for the benefit of a person who has a permit to store firearms; 3. donate the found weapon for the benefit of a selected museum; 4. Donate the weapon in favour of the state. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy and Yordan Yordanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 38: ....................... 38........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 61, para. 1, in the text before t. 1 after the word "sub-sub-sub-paragraphs" shall be added either by e-mail or by e-mail. Proposal of the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy and Yordan Yordanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 39: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 62 in the text before t. 1 after the word Proposal of the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy and Yordan Yordanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 40: ..... 40................... 40...................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 63a, in the text before t. 1 after the word "sub-sub-sub-paragraphs" shall be added either by e-mail or by e-mail. Proposal of the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy and Yordan Yordanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 41: ............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 64, in the text before t. 1 after the word Proposal of the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy and Yordan Yordanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 42: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 65, para. 1, in the text before t. 1 after the word "sub-sub-sub-paragraphs" shall be added either by e-mail or by e-mail. Proposal of the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy and Yordan Yordanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 43: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 68 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the words "In the case of a...' is added either written or electronically..................................................................................................... is 2. In para. 2 after the word "letters" shall be added by electronic means. 3. In para. 5 after the words the Ministry of the Interior's Ministry of Interior's Ministry is added either by e-mail or by e-mail. Proposal of the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy and Yordan Yordanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 44: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 69 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the word "Signature" is added either in writing or by electronic means. 2. In para. 2 after the words
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u160	Thank you, Mr. Tzipov. Are there any speeches on the proposed texts? Mr. Mihov, come and state that you are withdrawing your offer and say which one, because you have several suggestions.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u161	I withdraw my offer for art. 58 to § 37.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u162	Okay, you're withdrawing the entire offer. Are there any other speeches? Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the texts proposed by the Commission to establish paragraphs 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35 and 36, including under the Commission report. They voted 99 MPs: 88, against 5, abstention 6. The proposals have been accepted. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the MP Milen Mihov in respect of art. 58, para. 1 in its unsupported part. They voted 88 MPs: 14 against 25, abstention 49. The offer is not accepted. I put the following texts to the vote: the Commission's proposal to create § 37. I remind you that Mr. Mihov withdrew his proposal, not supported by the Commission; the creation of a new § 38; the creation of a new § 39; the creation of a new § 40: the creation of new paragraphs 41, 42, 43 and 44 under the Commission Report. Vote 92 MPs: 78 against 1, abstention 13. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u163	Proposal of the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy and Yordan Yordanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 45: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 70 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 1, in the text before t. 1 after the word received... shall be added either written or electronically................................................................................................... 2. In para. 2 after the word 3. In para. 4 after the word "Reflections" shall be added either by e-mail or by e-mail. Proposal of the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy and Yordan Yordanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 46: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 71, para. 1 after the word Proposal of the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy and Yordan Yordanov. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 1, 2 and 3 and does not support it by t. 4. "4." In addition to this, the Commission considers that the In order to obtain authorisation for the acquisition of firearms and ammunition with limited effect in the applications under para. 1 and para. 2 no valid reason shall be given for issuing the authorisation in the case of donation, purchase and replacement, according to the text of para. 3 t. 3. The Commission proposes to establish § 47: ss ss s s s s s In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 76 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the words "Sustainable residents in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria" "physical persons who are nationals of a third country" and after the word "supposed" is added "lettered" or by electronic means. 2. In para. 2 after the words the territory of another Member State shall be added to the list of natural persons who are nationals of a third country. 3. In para. 5 shall be added at the end, or the relevant authority of the third country whose national is the person. Proposal of the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy and Yordan Yordanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 48: ............... 48............................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 77 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 4th sentence second after the word "the representation', is added either by e-mail or by e-mail. 2. The creation of para. 6: The application for authorisation for the acquisition, storage and carrying of firearms and ammunition and the authorisation shall be made in writing or by electronic means. Proposal from the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy and Yordan Yordanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 49: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 78, para. 1, in the text before t. 1 after the word "sweep" shall be added either by e-mail or by e-mail. Proposal of the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy and Yordan Yordanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 50: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 78a, para. 1 and 3 after the word Proposal of the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy and Yordan Yordanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 51: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 79 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the word "sends" is added either by e-mail or by e-mail. 2. They're creating an al. 5, 6 and 7: In the warehouses to the commercial premises as well as in the commercial premises themselves, the persons referred to in para. 1 may store ammunition for any calibre-cut firearms, as well as for any calibre and size of the rounds for hunting smooth weapons in standard manufacturing packaging (box or box) in quantities not exceeding 100 kg for 20 m2 of the built-up area proportionately calculated as gunpowder content of ammunition. (6) In the warehouses to the commercial premises, as well as in the commercial premises themselves, the persons under para. 1 can store up to 20 kg of gunpowder for 20 m2 unfolded built-up area, proportionately calculated. (7) The requirements of Ordinance No Iz-895 of 2011 on the requirements for the construction of objects intended for trade in weapons, ammunition, explosives and pyrotechnic articles and the conditions for trade and of Ordinance No 1 of 2003 on the nomenclature of types of constructions, as well as the requirements for their physical protection laid down in the Law on construction in the territory shall not apply to objects where only ammunition and gunpowder with a hazard class of 1,4S are stored. Proposal of the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy and Yordan Yordanov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish § 52: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 81 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 1, 2 and 5 after the word "spodvat" shall be added either by writing or by electronic means. 2. In para. 6 after the word "sends" is added either by e-mail or by e-mail. 3. The creation of para. 7. . (7) Natural persons authorised to carry and use short-cut firearms for self-defense may purchase the authorised amount of ammunition for the firearms unit concerned. Proposal of the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy and Yordan Yordanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 53: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 81a the following additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the words "boe supplies', a comma shall be placed for them and added "including carbines'. 2. In para. 2 after the word "Signature" is added either by e-mail or by e-mail. 3. In para. 3 after the word "subsidize" is added either by writing or by electronic means. Proposal of the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy and Yordan Yordanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 54: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 83 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 2 after the word "letters" shall be added by electronic means. 2. In para. 5 after the word "Signature" shall be added either by e-mail or by e-mail. Proposal of the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy and Yordan Yordanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 55: ........... 55....................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 84 s (5) Within 7 days of expiry of the authorisation, the authority issuing the authorisation shall notify by electronic means (via SMS or e-mail) the person that the authorisation expires. Proposal of the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy and Yordan Yordanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 56: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 86 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 1, in the text before t. 1 after the word "Notify".. shall be added either by e-mail or by e-mail. 2. In para. 4 after the word "Reflections" shall be added either by e-mail or by e-mail. Proposal of the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy and Yordan Yordanov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Rosen Malinov and a group of MPs: ..created § 12a: 12a. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 87, para. 1 t. 3 is repealed. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 57: ...... 57............................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 87, para. 1, in the text before t. 1 after the word Proposal of the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy and Yordan Yordanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 58: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 88 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1, in the text before t. 1 after the word "guide" is added. 2. Alinea 2 is canceled. Proposal of the National Representative Milen Mihov to create a new paragraph for changes in art. 95.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u164	I'm withdrawing it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u165	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u166	Proposal of the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy and Yordan Yordanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 59: ............... 59................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 96 is created. . (5) Officials of the Ministry of Interior, DANS, DAR, DATO, General Directorate of Security and General Directorate of Punishment at the Ministry of Justice, Chief Prosecutor's Office of Defense and Military Officers of the Armed Forces, Officers and Sergeants of the National Security Agency, as well as the officers under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 2 of the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property and civil servants of DXI, carrying out the activity under art. 9, p. 18 of the Law on the Protection of Classified Information, which has been authorised to acquire, store and/or carry and use short firearms/short firearms and ammunition for them, may purchase ammunition for the arms held in possession of short firearms/short firearms after presentation of the authorisation, identification document and service card respectively.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u167	Thank you. Statements? Mr. Malinov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u168	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! In relation to the proposal we made and which the Commission did not accept in art. 87 t. 3 of the current law to be repealed, I want to give some clarification. There is no policy, there is absolutely nothing that relates to the activities of political parties. What's this about? In May 2019 this item was created. 3 in art. 87, which says that anyone who owns a short gun at five years of age is renewed the permit, should submit a protocol that has fired at least 50 ammunition. This is an absolutely pointless and unnecessary text. Absolutely pointless and unnecessary text that wears nothing. Firstly, what it carries is an additional complication of the administrative burden and procedure on the holder of a given weapon. Secondly, nothing improves the quality of the carrier concerned. When the debates were in the Commission, colleagues argued that people thus maintained their form. And more importantly, they were taking courses when they acquired one caliber and one weapon class, and then, you see, they bought another weapon and had to practice on it. Extremely untenable for one simple reason. I'll give you an example that's more acceptable to the part that doesn't know anything about guns. When you take out your driver's license, you take the courses of one type of car. After ten years, you replace the license, drive a completely different type and class of car. Does that mean you have to take the course again? No. That's one. The second, by the same logic, when the book is replaced, when the ten years run out, according to the logic of this point. 3, if this analogy is made, I have to go get from an authorized gas station or service that I've traveled a few thousand kilometers. Absolutely untenable and unnecessary to anyone! In this text, it stinks, I would like to say it more delicately, for a slight wink and tolerance of ammunition dealers for one simple reason, that short arms holders are quite, somewhere around 138 thousand, 50 rounds and the corresponding amount that is different for the various ammunitions you consider how much money we are talking about. That's my offer. Please carefully consider and support the removal of this text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u169	Thank you, Mr. Malinov. Are there lines? Any other speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I will put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create new paragraphs 45 and 46. Vote 84 MPs: 65 against 14, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy, Yordan Yordanov in the unsupported part of the Commission. [[Heckling]] Please cancel the vote. Colleagues, I will repeat what we are voting on again. I have put to the vote and will put to the vote once again the proposal of the MPs Aleksandar Sabanov, Alexander Siddy, Yordan Yordanov in the unsupported part of the Commission. They voted 84 MPs: 11 against 23, abstention 50. The offer is not accepted. I vote on the following texts: the Commission proposal to create new paragraphs 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55 and 56 under the Commission Report Vote 91 MPs: 78, against 10, abstention 3. The texts put to the vote have been adopted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal by the Commission of the Parliamentary Representative Rosen Malinov. 90 MPs voted: 19 against 60, 11 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. I am voting on the Commission's proposal to create new paragraphs 57, 58 and 59 under the Commission report. Here I remind you that Mr. Mihov withdrew his offer. Vote 92 MPs: 77, against 12, abstention 3. The texts put to the vote have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u170	Proposal of the MPs Simeon Naydenov and Slavi Netsov. A new § is being created: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 99 is a new para. 8 containing the following: . (8) Persons authorised to trade under art. 35, para. 1 transport in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria the acquired firearms, ammunition and pyrotechnic articles with the relevant marketing authorisation The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy and Yordan Yordanov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 2 et c. 3 and does not support it by t. 1. "1." A new paragraph shall be set up In Article 1, paragraph 1 is 1. In para. 1, t. 10 after the word "Collections" are added. The Commission proposes to establish § 60: ........................................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 99 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the word "Signature" shall be added either by e-mail or by e-mail. 2. In para. 4 everywhere after the word "collection" is added. 3. They're creating an al. 8 and 9: A weapons collection or part thereof may be transported and exposed to exhibitions and exhibitions by its owner who has a storage permit obtained under this law. The exhibition of the collection or part of it may be for participation in cultural events, scientific and educational events. The transport and exhibition of the collection or part of it shall take place after an application has been made to the Director of the Directorate-General of the Ministry of Interior or to the Head of the Ministry of Interior of the Interior, whose territory the weapons will be exposed and the authorisation for transport will be granted. The application shall specify: the weapons to be transported and exposed; the period for which they will be exposed; the place where they will be displayed; the transport route; security data. The application for authorisation for the transport of explosives, pyrotechnic articles, firearms and ammunition in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and the authorisation shall be made in writing or by electronic means. Proposal of the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy and Yordan Yordanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 61: ......... 61..................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 101, in the text before t. 1 after the word "sub-sub-sub-app" is added either in writing or by electronic means. Proposal of the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy and Yordan Yordanov The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 62: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 102 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 2 after the word "letters" shall be added by electronic means. 2. In para. 4 after the word "Signature" shall be added either by e-mail or by Proposal of the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy and Yordan Yordanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 63: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 103, para. 2 the words "three days' shall be replaced by "one day'. Proposal of the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy and Yordan Yordanov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Alexander Siddy, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 64: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 106 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1. 2. The creation of para. 2: . (2) Non-gunfire weapons may be transported in the form of consignments of all modes of transport only between traders holding the relevant marketing authorisations subject to strict packaging and storage requirements. Proposal of the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy and Yordan Yordanov. A new paragraph is being created: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is 1. In para. 1 after the words "other Member States', the third country shall be added. 2. In para. 3, p. 2 after the words the Member State (s) shall be added to the third country (s). 3. In para. 6 at the end are added the words.. or third countries...................................................................................................... The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy and Yordan Yordanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 65: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 120 are created. 5 and 6: . (5) Persons residing in the territory of other Member States may purchase firearms and ammunition for them on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria with permission to acquire and with the European Firearms Passport issued by the relevant competent authority of the Member State in which they are residing, after prior written consent by the Ministry of Interior. (6) Persons residing in the territory of other countries may purchase firearms and ammunition for them on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria with an acquisition permit issued by the relevant competent authority of the country in which they are residing after prior written consent by the Ministry of Interior. Proposal of the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy and Yordan Yordanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 66: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 121 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the words "after receiving', the letter or by electronic means shall be added. 2. In para. 2, in the text before t. 1 after the word "sub-sub-sub-app" is added either in writing or by electronic means. 3. In para. 9 after the word "shows" is added either by e-mail or by e-mail. Proposal of the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy and Yordan Yordanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 67: ................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 121a the following additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the word "sweep" is added either by e-mail or by e-mail. 2. In para. 3 in the text before t. 1 after the words the Ministry of Interior's GDP is added either by e-mail or by e-mail. Proposal of the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy and Yordan Yordanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 68: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 122 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the word "sweep" is added either by e-mail or by e-mail. 2. In para. 2, in the text before t. 1 after the word "sub-sub-sub-paragraphs" shall be added either by e-mail or by e-mail. Proposal of the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy and Yordan Yordanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 69: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 124 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 2 after the word "letters" shall be added by electronic means. 2. In para. 4 after the word "Signature" shall be added either by e-mail or by Proposal of the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11, which shall become § 70: ...... 70......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 132 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 2 after the words 2. In para. 3, p. 1 after the word "collection" is added. Proposal of the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 71: seventy-seventy-seventy-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-six. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 145, para. 1, t. 3 after the word "collection" is added. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 12, which becomes § 72: ................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 152 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 the words "police authorities" shall be replaced by "authorities." 2. In para. 4 a sentence is created second: the terms and procedures for carrying out control by the Committee on Art. 19th para. 2 on the activities under art. 1, para. 1, t. 1 shall be determined by a regulation of the Minister of Economy. The Commission proposes to establish § 73: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 162 para. 1 and 3 are repealed. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 13, which becomes § 74. ................ 74.................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 215 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 the words "Police authorities" shall be replaced by "authorities" and, finally, shall be added "for violations under Chapter 2 and by the Minister of Economy or officials appointed by him." 2. In para. 2 after the words the Minister of Home Affairs is added "or the Minister of Economy" and the word "him" is replaced by "them." The Commission proposes to establish § 75: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 216, para. 1 in a sentence first after the word "Signature" is added "Succeededed by an authority of the Ministry of Interior" and the words "in the Ministry of Interior" are deleted and in a sentence second the words "Secure of the Ministry of Interior" are deleted. Proposal of the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy and Yordan Yordanov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 76: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the additional provisions, Paragraph 1 establishes a point. 40, 41 and 42: 40. A limited-action firearms weapon is a firearms weapon specially designed and manufactured to produce a combat gun that is specially designed and manufactured for the purpose of inability to cause damage and/or injury to cause death and is a bullet or projectile made of elastic material, a rubber/tummy mixture without a metal core and/or metal elements within it, with a kinetic energy of no more than 91 joules. 41. It is specially designed and constructed for the purpose of inability to cause damage and/or injury to cause death and is projectiled with a bullet or projectile manufactured from elastic material, a rubber/tummy mixture without a metal core and/or metal elements in it. 42. It is a collection of firearms and/or cold weapons which do not appear cultural values within the meaning of art. 7, para. 4 t. 2 of the Cultural Heritage Act. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 14, which shall become § 77: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The following additions shall be made to the Transitional and Final Provisions: 1. In Paragraph 18, the first sentence shall be a comma and shall be added, with the exception of the samples of documents issued in accordance with Chapter Two, which shall be validated by an order of the Minister of Economy. 2. In § 31, the Council of Ministers shall make a comma and the Minister of Economy shall be added.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u171	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal of the MPs Simeon Naydenov and Slavi Netzov. They voted 91 MPs: 8 against 2, abstention 81. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs in his unsupported part. Vote 88 MPs: 8 against 4, abstention 76. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create paragraphs 60, 61, 62, 63 and 64, the text of those paragraphs, according to the Commission report. 90 MPs voted: 79, none, abstention 11. The texts put to the vote have been adopted. I put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal of the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy and Yordan Yordanov. They voted 87 MPs: 12, against 2, abstention 73. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the Commission proposal to create the following paragraphs: 65, 66, 67, 68 and 69: the text of those paragraphs, according to the Commission report. Vote 82 MPs: for 73, no objection, abstention 9. The texts put to the vote have been adopted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 11, which shall become § 70; the creation of § 71; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 12, which shall become § 72; the proposal of the Commission to create a new § 73; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 13, which shall become § 74; the proposal of the Commission to establish a new § 75; the proposal of the Commission to create a new § 76; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 14 by importer, which shall become § 77. The texts of the newly proposed paragraphs shall be in accordance with the Commission report. Vote 82 MPs: 73, against 2, abstention 7. The texts put to the vote have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u172	According to § 15 there is a proposal of the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy and Yordan Yordanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 15, which shall become § 78. ...... 78............................................................................ In the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Weapons, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles (SG, No. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). The following amendments and additions shall be made to the 1. In § 67, para. 2 the words '31 December 2020' shall be replaced by '31 December 2022'. 2. In § 68: (a) in para. 2 after the words for cultural purposes....or sports activities.... shall be added.... (b) the creation of para. 3: . (3) Copies of weapons under art. 4, para. 2, p. 3 used for cultural purposes shall be protected only if there is a constructive possibility. The Commission proposes to establish a name: "Transitional and final provisions'. There is an unsupported proposal from the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy and Jordan Yordanov to create a new paragraph. [[The National Representative Alexander Siddy wants the floor.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u173	I'll give you my word, Mr. Siddy. [[Reply from the National Representative Alexander Siddy.]] You withdraw the offer, which is connected...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u174	...by establishing a new paragraph in the Transitional and Final Provisions for § 7, which acquires the following wording.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u175	I get it, for the record.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u176	Proposal of the National Representative Plamen Nunev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 79: ....... 79........................................................................... The authorisations and certificates issued prior to the entry into force of this Act in accordance with Chapter 2 shall remain valid. Proposal of the National Representative Plamen Nunev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 80: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Not completed within three months of the promulgation of this law, procedures for issuing authorisations or certificates for the production of weapons, ammunition, explosives and pyrotechnic articles shall be completed in the current order. Proposal from the National Representative Plamen Nunev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 81: ........ 81...................................................................... Within three months of the entry into force of this law, the information from the register under art. 11 relating to the activities under Chapter 2 and the archive held at the DMNP of the Ministry of Interior shall be provided on paper and electronic media to the Ministry of Economy and the DMNP of the Ministry of Interior shall keep a copy of the same. Proposal of the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy and Yordan Yordanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 82: ............................................................................... (1) Within three years of the entry into force of this Act, the Ministry of Interior shall establish the electronic register under art. 11. (2) Within three years of the entry into force of this Act, the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Economy shall provide a technical opportunity to submit, obtain and issue relevant documents under the Law by electronic means. Proposal of the National Representative Plamen Nunev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 83: ........ 83...................................................................... Within 6 months of the entry into force of this law, the Minister of Economy shall issue the ordinance under art. 152, para. 4. Proposal of the National Representative Plamen Nunev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Manoil Manev, made in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 84: ss s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s u s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s u s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s u s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s (2) Paragraph 55 shall enter into force three years after the promulgation of the law in the Official Journal. [[Private applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-12.u177	Thank you, dear Mr. Tzipov. Statements? There are no speeches. I put to the vote the following texts: the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 15 which becomes § 18; the Commission proposal for the establishment of Transitional and Final Provisions; the proposal of the Members of the National Assembly Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy, Jordan Yordanov; the Commission proposal for the creation of a new § 79; the Commission proposal for the creation of new paragraphs 80, 81, 82, 83 and 84 is withdrawn. Those paragraphs are with a text on the Commission report. For the record, just to clarify that § 15 becomes § 78. Vote 88 MPs: 80 against 8, no abstentions. The texts put to the vote have been adopted. I will now introduce you to the Parliamentary Control Communication on 13 November 2020 following the conclusion of the legislative part of the meeting. 1. Minister of Finance Kiril Ananiev will answer a question from the National Representative Nikolay Tishev. 2. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova will answer four questions from the MPs Dora Yankova, Lyubomir Bonev, Teodora Halacheva; Kolyo Milev; Nikolay Ivanov; Nikola Dinkov and Violeta Jelev, and one question from the MPs Georgi Svilenski, Manol Genov and Dimitar Danchev. 3. Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva will answer a question from the MPs Veska Nencheva and Violeta Jeleva. 4. The Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will answer a question from the MPs Kristina Sidorova and Teodora Halacheva. 5. The Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov will answer four questions from the MPs Kolyo Milev; Evgeni Budinov; Georgi Mihailov, Georgi Gokov. 6. The Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov will answer two questions from the MPs Manoil Manev and Radostin Tanev; and Georgi Gokov. 7. The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Dessislava Taneva will answer four questions from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova; Kolyo Milev "two questions, and Stoyan Bozhinov. 8. The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov will answer a question from the National Representative Dean Stanchev. 9. The Minister of Economy Lachezar Borisov will answer three questions from the MPs Rumen Gechev; Zhelyo Boychev, Nadia Klisurska. 10. Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will answer a question from the MPs Nikolai Ivanov and Vasil Antonov. 11. The Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev will answer a question from the National Representative Nikola Dinkov. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev at one request from the MPs Dimitar Danchev and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to one question, with a written answer from the National Representative Georgi Stoilov; - Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov to four questions from the MPs Georgi Yordanov, Ilian Timchev; Manol Genov; Veska Nencheva, Georgi Yordanov; Krasimir Yankov, Nikolay Ivanov, Lalo Kirilov, Valeri Zablyanov, Dimitar Stoyanov, Georgi Andreev and Chavdar Velinov. For lack of respectable reasons, Members of the National Assembly shall postpone the responses to: - a question from the MP Pavel Shopov to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova; - a question from the National Representative Teodora Halacheva to the Minister of Culture Boyl Banov. Due to the country's absence in the parliamentary control meeting, Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy and Minister of Tourism Mariana Nikolova and Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva will not participate. The next regular plenary session shall be from 9:00 p.m. on 13 November under the adopted Work Programme. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
