ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u1	I'm opening the meeting. There's a quorum. Before we begin, colleagues, I will introduce you to an announcement: Yesterday, 21 May 2020, received and sent to the MPs a General Draft of the Bills for amendment and supplement to the Waste Management Act adopted on the first vote on 14 May 2020. The project was prepared by the Committee on Environment and Water on the grounds of art. 81, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. Let's continue with: The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row shall be the amount to be reported in this row. Importers: Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on 4 May 2020; Mustafa Karadayi, Delyan Peevski and Yordan Tsonev on 13 May 2020; Boriana Georgieva and Polina Tsankova on 15 May 2020; Krasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs on 15 May 2020; Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs on 15 May 2020; Cornelia Nino and a group of MPs on 18 May 2020. Colleagues, we begin with the presentation of the reports. Mr. Popov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u2	Thank you. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! It is only right before the presentation of the bills concerning amendments to the Value Added Tax Act to come and be present here, and to announce the opinion of the Ministry of Finance the Finance Minister. Will an update of the budget be made, will it not be done? Because here any laws can be adopted.. and tax, but the right sacred, as they say, constitutionally, it is legal for the Council of Ministers to submit an update of the budget. Let us inform the MPs, the Bulgarian society, whether they intend and what parameters should this update be made. Please invite Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov to come and express the opinion of the Ministry of Finance on the so presented bills and on possible budget update. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u3	Thank you, Mr. Popov. I will inform Minister Goranov of your wish. Colleagues, we begin with a report from the Committee on Budget and Finance. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova, to introduce us to the first Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u4	Mrs. Rositsa Velkova, Deputy Minister, and Mrs. Ludmila Petkova, Director of the Tax Policy Directorate at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Please vote on the procedure tolerance. Vote 169 MPs: 165, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u6	On 15 May 2020 the Law on Value Added Tax, No 054-01-39, submitted by Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on 4 May 2020, a Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax, No 054-01-40, submitted by Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs on 13 May 2020, a Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax, No 054-01-42, submitted by Boryana Georgieva and Polina Tsankova-Hristova on 15 May 2020, a Bill amending the Law on Value Added Tax, No 054-01-43, imported by Krassimir Zip and a Group of National Representatives on 15 May 2020, a Bill amending the Law on Value Added Tax Act No 054-01-44, introduced by Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs on 15 May 2020 and a Group Added by the Law on the National Tax Act No. At a meeting held on 20 May 2020, the Budget and Finance Committee discussed the above-mentioned bills amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act. The meeting was attended by: from the Ministry of Tourism: Ms. Nikolina Angelkova, Minister of Tourism; from the Ministry of Finance: Ms. Rositsa Velkova, Deputy Minister of Finance, and Ms. Mina Yankova, Head of the Department of Tax Policy. [[Noise.]] Opinions were received from the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Tourism and the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. On behalf of importers, a bill amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act No 054 01-39 was presented by Mr. Alexander Siddy. He said that the tourism sector and businesses employed in providing hotel and restaurant services are among the most affected by the pandemic of the CoVID-19 virus. It is necessary to implement measures to stimulate the demand for restaurant and hotel services, as well as measures to restore the profitability of commercial operators in this sector and address losses suffered. It is necessary to support the competitiveness of this sector. To this end, it is proposed to introduce a reduced rate of tax of 9% on value added and on restaurant services provided, in addition to the 9% rate applied so far for accommodation provided in hotels and other similar establishments. [[Noise.]] The reduced rate is also proposed to cover catering services due to their close nature with restaurant services. The reduced rate applicable to restaurant and catering services shall be offered initially for a period of 2 years until 31 December 2021. It should be 5% in order to restore the industry even faster and limit the effects of COVID-19. The introduction of the reduced rate of tax will allow reducing the prices of restaurant and catering services, will positively affect the demand for such services for the period after the end of the pandemic with the virus, will allow for a faster return to profitability of businesses in the sector, will limit additional losses in the sector and prevent possible failures and will ensure the increased competitiveness of the Bulgarian tourism sector on the world market and other tourist destinations in the European Union and beyond. [[Noise.]] People's Representative Yordan Tsonev presented the reasons of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax, No 054-01-40, pointing out that the aim of the bill is to support families with small children. With a reduction the VAT rate will result in a substantial decrease in the prices of goods destined for children to 3 years, and they will become more accessible to all families. The measure is a powerful instrument for supporting birth rate and demographic policy. As a result of the adoption of the legislative initiative on preliminary calculations, there will be a decline of around 40 million. lv. the revenue in the budget. [[Noise.]] On behalf of the importers, a bill amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act No 054 01-42 was presented by Ms. Polina Tsankova Hristova. She said that the legislative proposal creates a reduced tax rate of 9 per cent for all paper editions of books, textbooks and study aids. Reducing the tax rate of value added tax from 20% to 9% will stimulate reading in a firm way, as well as supporting state social and educational policy. Lowering the price of textbooks and teaching aids will ease young families and stimulate them to buy more teaching tools because of their more affordable price. This will inevitably increase the quality of the education of the population. [[Noise.]] A reduction in the tax rate for the use of fitness centres and sports halls is also proposed, thus making the services offered by gyms and sports halls offering group sports activities more accessible to citizens. Sports activity, which is directly linked to strengthening people's health, will be stimulated, thereby indirectly reducing health costs. [[Noise.]] National Representative Toma Bikov presented the reasons of the Draft Law amending the Law on Value Added Tax, No 054-01-43. The proposal for a change to the Value Added Tax Act provides for the introduction of a new reduced rate of tax for restaurant and catering services of 9% for a limited period of time There is also an increase in the minimum insurance threshold of BGN 610. £800. for economic activity through an appropriate change in the State Social Security Budget Act for 2020, as an effective measure to reduce the share of the grey economy. [[Noise.]] A reduced rate of value added tax is also introduced for the distribution and sale of artistic, scientific and educational literature. The proposal takes into account technological progress in the digital economy, allowing for a reduced rate of VAT on book supplies, whether delivered to physical media or electronically, and aims to stimulate consumption of goods with positive external impacts. [[Noise.]] There is also an opportunity for doctors and medical professionals from medical institutions, regional health inspection staff, emergency medical centers, the Center for Infectious and Parasitic Diseases.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u7	Colleagues, please be quiet in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u8	.. The Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Defence, the Agency for Social Assistance and the National Management, which directly carry out activities related to the fight and prevention of the spread of COVID-19, provide vouchers for accommodation for not less than 7 days in the amount of 210 BGN. in the premises of companies where the sole owner of the capital is the National Insurance Institute, in hospitals for rehabilitation and balneological centres owned by the State and in the rest bases of ministries and offices, according to a list defined by the Council of Ministers. On behalf of the importers, the Law amending the Value Added Tax Act No 054-01-44 was presented by Mr. Valeri Simeonov. It has been pointed out that the coronavirus pandemic has had an extremely negative impact on the country's economic development, with the undoubtedly most affected industry being tourism. They consider that an extremely supportive measure for the restaurant industry and tour operators is a reduction of the VAT rate for restaurant and catering services, as well as common tourist services within the meaning of art. Paragraph 136. 1 of the Value Added Tax Act from 20 to 9% for the period until 31 December 2021. As a positive effect of the change, more transparency of the revenues in the restaurant industry is expected, which could offset the decrease in budget revenues for the period by 255 million. lv. For direct support to doctors and medical professionals in medical institutions, regardless of the form of ownership, of employees of regional health inspections, emergency health care centres, the Center for Infectious and Parasitic Diseases, the National Centre for Transfiguration Hematology, regional centres of transfusion haematology, as well as the employees of regional health insurance banks who are seconded to regional health inspections, health mediators under art. 29, para. 2 of the Health Act, as well as of the employees under art. 142, para. 1, t. 1 of the Act on the Ministry of Interior, which were and are on the front line in the fight against coronavirus infection, is proposed to be able to receive vouchers for accommodation in tourist sites for at least seven days. The intended vouchers will be worth 210 BGN. and can only be used for domestic tourism, with their validity until 31 December 2021. Thus, not only will be covered by the summer tourist season this year, but also winter and summer seasons in 2021. It is also proposed that vouchers be provided to the employees of the Ministry of Defence, the Social Assistance Agency and the National Toll Management, which directly carry out activities related to the fight and prevention of the spread of COVID-19. National Representative Rumen Gechev presented the reasons of the Draft Law for supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax, No 054-01-45. The bill provides for a 9% reduction in the rate of value added tax for food, medicinal products included in the positive list under art. 262 of the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, paid with funds from the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund and for medical devices. The reduction in the food tax rate will make the main food products cheaper. At the same time, the Bulgarian food industry will be encouraged. This reduction will be beneficial, especially for low income people, leaving them over 1 billion. lv. for consumption. With regard to medicines, the reduction from 20% to 9% of the VAT rate for medicines will give more opportunities for drug policy impact. Patients in Bulgaria pay too much at their own expense. This data is also mentioned in the World Bank Report. The share of pharmaceutical expenditure in the country reaches 38% at 25% on average for the European Union. As far as the budgetary effect is concerned, the revenue from the VAT budget on medicines will be lower, but also the budgetary expenditure for medicines policies will be lower, i.e. the net effect will be closer to zero. This will provide even more opportunities for the National Health Insurance Fund and the Ministry of Health to influence the market. The total effect of differentiation in VAT rates is a reduction in budget revenues by approximately 1 billion. 116 million. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. from food and The positive effect is in three directions: firstly, a reduction in budget expenditure for medicines, secondly, an increase in budget revenues as a result of higher trade turnover and thirdly, a shrinking of the grey sector and an increase in tax revenues. This positive effect is about 450 million. lv. As a result of the discussion of the Committee on Budget and Finance with 2 votes in favour, No. 05-01-2016, the first vote was proposed by Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on 4 May 2020 and the first vote was proposed by the National Assembly not to adopt the Law amending and supplement the Law on Value Added, No. 054 01-40, tabled by Mustafa Karaday and by a group of members of the National Assembly on 13 May 2020; with 1 vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u9	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. With the Report of the Committee on Culture and Media, Mrs. Milkova will introduce us.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u10	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act submitted by Boryana Georgieva and Polina Tsankova on 15 May 2020 and a bill amending the Value Added Tax Act submitted by Krasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs on 15 May 2020. At a regular meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media, held on 21 May 2020, a Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax, No 054-01-42, submitted by Boryana Georgieva and Polina Tsankova-Hristova on 15 May 2020, and a Bill amending the Law on Value Added Tax, No 054-01-43, submitted by Krasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs on 15 May 2020. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Culture Rumen Dimitrov, Deputy Minister, Vesela Shtereva A bill amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, No 054-01-42, on behalf of the importers was presented by Mrs. Boryana Georgieva. It proposes that the tax rate for the delivery of books, textbooks and teaching aids in paper edition should be reduced to 9 percent. According to importers, reducing the tax rate of value added tax from 20% to 9% will stimulate reading. The reduction of the tax will lead to a reduction in retail price and will increase the purchasing opportunity. The change is in the help of the Bulgarian library system, it will encourage the Bulgarian publishing industry to develop competitively for the European industry. Reducing the tax rate for textbooks and teaching aids will help social and educational policy, lowering their price will stimulate them to buy more teaching aids. This bill also offers a reduction in the tax rate for the use of services in fitness centers and sports halls related to exercise and sports of 9 percent. This will make these services more accessible to citizens, stimulate sports activity, which is directly related to strengthening people's health. This will indirectly lead to a reduction in the cost of health care by encouraging the population to actively exercise and increasing the use of this type of services. A bill amending the Value Added Tax Act, No 054-01-43, on behalf of the importers was presented by Mr. Evgeni Budinov. This bill provides for the introduction of a new reduced rate of tax for restaurant and catering services of 9 percent, for a limited period from 1 July 2020 to 31 December 2021. The aim is even faster to restore the sector from the consequences of the pandemic of the virus of COVID-19 and to protect Bulgarian production. It is proposed to reduce the rate of value added tax to distribute and sell artistic, scientific and educational literature by 9 percent. The proposal also takes into account technological progress in the digital economy, allowing a reduced rate of taxation of value added tax on the supply of books, whether delivered to physical media or electronically. The aim is to stimulate consumption of goods with positive external impacts. The final provisions of the Bill amend the Law on the budget of the held social security by increasing the minimum social security threshold of BGN 610. £800. This is a measure to reduce the share of the gray economy and increase the income from compulsory social contributions, as well as income from personal income taxes. The latest change regulates the provision and use of vouchers for accommodation with a nominal value of 210 BGN. During the discussion took part the MPs Vejdi Rashidov, Krasimir Velchev, Anastas Popdimitrov, Velislava Krasteva, Emilia Milkova, Chavdar Velinov, Evgeni Budinov, Lachezar Ivanov and Maria Tsvetkova. With its opinion, the Ministry of Culture supports the Draft Law amending the Value Added Tax Act submitted by Krasimir Tzipov and a group of MPs. After a vote by the National Assembly on culture and media, with 1 votes for a vote, without the vote of abstention, the National Assembly is asked not to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Law on value added tax, No 054-01-42, submitted by Boryana Georgieva and Polina Tsankova-Hristova on 15 May 2020; with 12 votes for a vote for a vote without a vote against a vote, the National Assembly is proposed to adopt a Law amending the Law on Value Added Tax, No 054-01-43, submitted by Krasimir Tsipov and a group of representatives on 15 May 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u11	Thank you, dear Mrs. Milkova. Following is the Commission's report on children, youth and sport. Here you go, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe The Committee on Children, Youth and Sports at a regular meeting held on 20 May 2020 discussed and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, No 054-01-42, submitted by Boryana Lyubenova Georgieva and Polina Hristova on 15 May 2020. The meeting was attended by Mr. Krasen Kralev, Minister of Youth and Sports, Mr. Asen Markov, Secretary General, and Mr. Radostin Lubomirov, Chief Expert in Public Relations and Protocol. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the National Representative Boryana Georgieva, who pointed out that the priorities of this legislative initiative are related to a reduction of the tax rate for value added tax from 20% to 9% for printed books, textbooks and study aids, as well as for the use of the services offered by fitness centres and sports halls. According to the importer, the reduction of value added tax will have a positive impact on the budget of the Bulgarian population and will increase its purchasing opportunity when buying teaching materials and books. With the proposal to reduce the tax rate for using fitness centres and sports halls, the importer aims to make group sports activities more accessible to citizens, which will stimulate the sports activity of the population. This will indirectly reduce the cost of health and increase the consumption of this type of services. The effect of the current legislative change will support state, social and educational policy in the Republic of Bulgaria and is in line with the consistent state policy for prevention for the education and health of citizens. Mr. Asen Markov, Secretary General of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, disagreed with the proposed change. He considers that if the MPs decide to reduce the rate under the Value Added Act, this should apply to all sports services within the meaning of the Law. In the subsequent discussion the MPs Ivan Chenchev, Hristo Prodanov and Slavcho Atanasov were involved. Mr. Chenchev and Mr. Prodanov expressed reservations on the proposed bill. As a result of the discussion and on the basis of the 1-vote vote held, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax, No 054-01-42, submitted by Boryana Lyubenova Georgieva and Polina Hristova on 15 May 2020, proposed to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Chenchev. Here you are, Mr. Apostolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u14	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe The Committee on Children, Youth and Sports at its regular meeting, held on 20 May 2020, examined and discussed the Draft Law amending the Value Added Tax Act, No 054-01-40, submitted by the MPs Mustafa Karadayi, Delyan Peevski and Yordan Tsonev on 13 May 2020. The meeting was attended by Mr. Krasen Kralev, Minister of Youth and Sports, Mr. Asen Markov, Secretary General, and Mr. Radostin Lubomirov, Chief Expert in Public Relations and Protocol. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the MP Sevim Ali. In his statement, Mr. Ali explained that extraordinary measures related to coronavirus disease have severe economic consequences for the whole of society. The pandemic has a negative impact on the country's economic development. The anti-epidemic measures introduced have led to the closure and cessation of activities of numerous tourist sites. In order to overcome the economic losses in this sector, the lawmakers of the Department of Rights and Freedoms proposed legislative changes related to the reduction of value added tax for accommodation in hotels and similar establishments, holiday accommodation and renting of camping sites or caravans. The proposal for children's foods intended for children up to 3 years of age and children's pharmaceutical products, including diapers, will result in a substantial reduction in the prices of goods intended for children up to 3 years of age. The importer believes that this measure is a powerful tool for supporting birth rate and demographic policy, as well as support for Bulgarian households who are experiencing increasingly serious financial difficulties. The current bill aims to help families with young children. The importer notes that as a result of the adoption of this legislative initiative by preliminary calculations there will be a decline of around 40 million. lv. for revenue in the budget. As a result of the discussion and on the basis of the three-vote vote, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports proposed that the National Assembly should not support the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax, No 054-01-40, submitted by Mustafa Sali Karadayi, Delyan Slavchev Peevski and Yordan Kirilov Tsonev on 13 May 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u15	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. The report of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is available, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u16	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending the Value Added Tax Act, No 054-01-43, submitted by Krasimir Georgiev Tzipov and a group of MPs on 15 May 2020. The Commission on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a regular meeting held on 20 May 2020 examined and discussed a bill amending the Law on Value Added Tax. The meeting was attended by Denitsa Sacheva, Minister of Labour and Social Policy; from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy - Kalina Petkova, Director of the Department of Labour Law, Social Security and Conditions of Labour and Petya Malakova; from the Ministry of Finance - Lyudmila Petkova, Director of the Department of Tax Policy. The bill was presented by the MP Krasimir Tsipov. The proposal for a change to the Value Added Tax Act provides for the introduction of a new reduced rate of tax for restaurant and catering services of 9%, for a limited period of time until 31 December 2021, in order to restore the sector even more quickly from the consequences of the pandemic of the virus of COVID-19 and to protect the Bulgarian production. The proposal is drawn up in accordance with Council Directive (EU) 2018/1713 of 6 November 2018 amending Directive 2006/112/EC and provides for a reduced rate of value added tax for the dissemination and sale of artistic, scientific and educational literature. The introduction of a reduced rate of value added tax will result in a reduction of budgetary revenue for the intended period of action 1 July 2020. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the purchase, hire, maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance and maintenance of equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance and - In the case of restaurant and catering services, the loss for 2020 for the period July of December of 105 million. lv. VAT receipts and 2021 The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. - When delivering books to physical media or carried out electronically or both (including textbooks, etc.), a loss of 7 million for the period July. lv. VAT receipts and 2021 The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. The amendment proposal to art. 66, para. 2 of the Value Added Tax Act will apply from 1 July 2020 until 31 December 2021. As far as Paragraph 3 of the proposed bill is concerned, importers believe that this is a social measure that will help employees in restaurant, hot shop, travel agent and operator activities. We are talking about increasing the minimum insurance threshold of BGN 610. £800. This increase will be an effective measure to reduce the share of the gray economy and increase the revenues from compulsory social contributions, as well as income from personal income taxes. At the same time, the proposed measure has a social impact on workers, as their social rights will be on higher social security income, which is also close to the actual wages paid for the activities concerned. The reasons for the bill are that § 4 of the Bill offers additions to the Law on Measures and Actions during the emergency situation, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, and to overcome the consequences. The newly established members shall deal with basic situations in the use of vouchers by Bulgarian citizens during the summer season of 2020 and 2021. Vouchari will be distributed to doctors and medical professionals in medical institutions, regardless of the form of ownership, and to officials of regional health inspections, emergency medical centres, the National Centre for Infectious and Parasitic Diseases, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Defence, the Agency for Social Assistance and the National Toll Management, which directly carry out activities related to the fight and prevention of the spread of COVID-19. The accommodation vouchers have a nominal value of 210 BGN. They will only be able to benefit once from the persons entered in them for the payment of a holiday of no less than 7 days in the premises of the companies where the National Insurance Institute is the sole owner of the capital, in hospitals for rehabilitation and balneotherapy centres owned by the State, and in the rest bases of the ministries and departments on a list adopted by the Council of Ministers. Persons entitled to receive accommodation vouchers shall be designated respectively by the Minister of Health, the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, the Minister of Interior, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works and the Minister of Defence or persons authorised by them. The value of vouchers is not taxed and is not due to compulsory social contributions. The Commission received the opinions of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the Agency for Social Assistance. The opinion of the Ministry of Finance shall state in detail the arguments which have given reason not to support the bill. The arguments are related to the fact that the adoption of the Bill will have a negative effect on budget revenues, the administrative burden and the costs of the business will increase the risk of tax fraud, the effectiveness of the tax system will be reduced, convincing social and economic objectives will not be achieved, etc. Minister Denitsa Sacheva presented the opinion of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. She pointed out that the Bill is supported by the Ministry, but there is a need to specify some of the texts and others supplemented. With such changes, the bill will become more effective. The Social Assistance Agency supports the bill. National representatives Violeta Jeleva, Svetlana Angelova, Errol Mehmed, Rumen Genov, Milko Nedyalkov, Hasan Ademov, Kalin Popovski, Nadia Klisurska, Georgi Gyokov, Nikolay Sirakov took part in the discussion. Many questions and answers were asked by the importers and representatives of the Ministry of Finance. At the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: 12 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He proposed to the National Assembly to support a bill amending the Value Added Tax Act, No 054-01-43, submitted by Krasimir Georgiev Tzipov and a group of MPs on 15 May 2020. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Bill supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, No 054-01-45, submitted by Cornelia Petrova Ninova and a group of MPs on 18 May 2020. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a regular meeting held on 20 May 2020 discussed and discussed the Draft Law on Supplement to the Value Added Act, No 054-01-45, submitted by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The meeting was attended by Ms. Denitsa Sacheva, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Mrs. Kalina Petkova, Director of the Department of Labour Law, Social Security and Working Conditions, Mrs. Petya Malakova, Head of the Department of Public Insurance at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Mrs. Lyudmila Petkova, Director of the Department of Tax Policy at the Ministry of Finance. The bill was presented by the MP Vesela Lecheva. The bill provides for a reduction in the rate of value added tax on foods, medicinal products included in the positive list under art. 262 of the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, paid with funds from the budget of the NHIF and medical devices of 9%. The reduction in the food tax rate will make the main food products cheaper. At the same time, the Bulgarian food industry will be encouraged. Regardless of the nominal increase in the income of the population, domestic consumption is not enough to boost domestic production in the food sector. According to the National Statistical Institute, average consumption per capita has decreased slightly over the past ten years, which means that the defects in the food market have not only been overcome but also strengthened. On the other hand, the COVID-19 pandemic we are facing has led to a contraction in food consumption due to job losses and incomes in a large part of the population. Measures to deal with the pandemic lead to an increase in the cost of producers, which is also a factor in reducing consumption. Against the backdrop of low demand, the increase in cost in the food industry further shrinks trade turnover. There is an objective reality to shorten production and to aggravate the financial situation of whole sectors related to food production, processing and trade. We risk not only losing markets, but also a number of traditional Bulgarian foods being replaced by imported foods, and at much higher prices. The reduction in the VAT rate on food will not only slow down the rate of increase in their prices, but will also make the food and processing industry more attractive to investors, will stimulate Bulgarian producers to look for new technologies and produce products with higher added value instead of exporting raw materials, will make the production in these sectors more competitive, which will create prerequisites for creating new jobs, especially in agricultural, high-mountain and depopulated areas. As regards medicines, it should be noted that their prices in Bulgaria are at one of the highest levels. The reduction from 20% to 9% of the VAT rate for medicines will give more opportunities for drug policy impact. Prices for free sale in the pharmacies are often almost equal to what the patient has to pay after the partial discount "reimbursement," which is borne by the NHIF. In Bulgaria, patients pay too much at their own expense. The share of pharmaceutical expenditure in Bulgaria reaches 38% at 25% on average for the European Union data from a World Bank report, this is at the expense of hospital and outpatient assistance. With differentiation of VAT rates, budget revenues are reduced in the short term. In the long term, they have the potential to increase thanks to increasing trade turnover. The total effect of differentiation in VAT rates is a reduction in budget revenues by approximately 1 billion. 116 million. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. from food The positive effect is in three directions: firstly, a reduction in budget expenditure for medicines, secondly, an increase in budget revenues as a result of higher trade turnover and thirdly, a shrinking of the grey sector and an increase in tax revenues. This positive effect is about 450 million. lv. A preliminary impact assessment form is attached to the Bill. Opinion received from the Ministry of Finance. The position reflecting the institution is as follows: the introduction of a reduced VAT rate for food and medicines on the positive list is not an appropriate tool for achieving economic, social and other state policy objectives. This measure does not reduce consumer spending, value added tax is a major source of revenue in the state budget and the introduction of a reduced VAT rate for goods and services referred to in the Bill will lead to a reduction in budget revenues, which raises the question of their compensation. The introduction of a reduced rate for certain goods leads to difficulties for taxable persons in their treatment and application. The categories of goods provided for in the Annex are not clearly defined as only a certain part of a group of goods. This would lead to a breach of the principle of fiscal neutrality, i.e. not to impose similar goods and services at different VAT rates and not to distort competition. The debate was attended by the MPs Dr. Hasan Ademov, Dr. Kalin Popovski, Violeta Jeleva, Svetlana Angelova, Errol Mehmed, Rumen Genov, Milko Nedyalkov, Nadia Klisurska, Georgi Gokov. After the discussion of the Bill was concluded, a vote was held. With results, 6 votes for........................................................................................................................... and 12 votes............................................................................................................................... He proposes to the National Assembly not to support the bill for supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, No 054-01-45, submitted by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. And the last two reports of the Committee on Legal Affairs are available, Mrs. Ilieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I will introduce you to: ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Legal Affairs, No 054-01-44, submitted by Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs on 15 May 2020. At its meeting held on 20 May 2020, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending the Value Added Tax Act, No 054-01-44, submitted by Krasimir Georgiev Tzipov and a group of MPs on 15 May 2020. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Danail Kirilov from the Ministry of Justice and Mrs. Diana Dragneva from the Ministry of Finance Director of the Department of Legal Affairs and Ms. Ekaterina Tarhova from the Chief Expert in the Directorate of Tax Policy. The bill was presented by Mr. Mitev, who pointed out that it introduced a reduced rate of value added tax for restaurant and catering services, as well as for general tourist services within the meaning of art. Paragraph 136. 1 in the amount of 9 percent, for a period from 1 July 2020 to 31 December 2021, in order to restore the sector quickly from the effects of the pandemic of the virus of COVID-19 and to protect the Bulgarian production. He added that the introduction of vouchers for accommodation with a nominal value of 210 BGN. to doctors and medical professionals in medical institutions, to staff of regional health inspections, emergency medical centres, the National Centre for Infectious and Parasitic Diseases, the Centres of Transfigurational Hematology, the employees of regional health insurance cases who are seconded to regional health inspections, the health mediators under art. 29, para. 2 of the Health Act, state officials from the Ministry of Interior, police and fire safety authorities and population protection authorities, the Ministry of Defence, the Social Assistance Agency and the National Tol management directly implementing activities related to the fight and prevention of the spread of COVID-19. It shall be possible for persons who have received accommodation vouchers to use them by 30 December 2021. The introduction of the proposal shall also help the tourist sector. As a result of the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 2 votes for the European Parliament, without the opposition and 17 votes, proposed that the National Assembly not adopt a bill amending the Law on Value Added Tax, No 054-01-44, submitted by Valeri Simeonov and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 15 May 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u19	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ilieva. Mrs. Sabeva, please come in for the second report. Colleagues, please put on your masks. Next time, I'll give you a roll call. Find Mr. Mirchev a mask, I understand there's no mask. Here you are, Mrs. Sabeva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u20	Madam President, honourable Members! I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a bill amending the Value Added Tax Act, No 054-01-43, submitted by Krasimir Georgiev Tzipov and a group of MPs on 15 May 2020. At its meeting held on 20 May 2020, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending the Value Added Tax Act, No 054-01-43, submitted by Krasimir Georgiev Tzipov and a group of MPs on 15 May 2020. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Danail Kirilov from the Ministry of Justice and Mrs. Diana Dragneva from the Ministry of Finance Director of the Department of Legal Affairs and Ms. Ekaterina Tarhova from the Chief Expert in the Directorate of Tax Policy. The bill was presented by Mrs. Ivanova-Subeva, who pointed out that it introduced a new reduced tax rate for restaurant and catering services of 9 per cent, for a limited period of time until 31 December 2021, in order to restore the sector more quickly from the consequences of the pandemic of the virus of COVID-19 and to protect the Bulgarian production. It is also envisaged to reduce the rate of value added tax for the distribution and sale of artistic, scientific and educational literature in accordance with Council Directive (EU) 2018/1713 of 6 November 2018 amending Directive 2006/112/EC. It added that it was possible to charge at a reduced VAT rate the supply of books to physical carriers or electronically to stimulate the consumption of goods. The bill takes into account that the introduction of a reduced VAT rate would lead to a reduction in budget revenue for the planned period of action 1 July 2020. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the purchase, hire, maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance and maintenance of equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance and maintenance of equipment for the maintenance of the equipment for the maintenance of the equipment for the maintenance of the equipment for the maintenance of the equipment for the maintenance of the equipment for the maintenance of the equipment for the maintenance of the equipment for the maintenance of the equipment and maintenance of the equipment for the maintenance of the equipment for the maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, Mrs. Ivanova-Subeva noted that the proposed change in the Law on the Budget of State Social Security for 2020 to increase the minimum insurance threshold of BGN 610. £800. is an effective measure to reduce the share of the gray economy and increase the income from compulsory social contributions as well as income from natural persons' income taxes. Vouchers are provided for accommodation with a nominal value of 210 BGN. to doctors and medical professionals in medical institutions, and to officials of regional health inspections, emergency medical centres, the National Centre for Infectious and Parasitic Diseases, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Defence, the Social Assistance Agency and the National Toll Management, which directly carry out activities related to the fight and prevention of the spread of COVID-19. It shall be possible for persons who have received accommodation vouchers to use them by 30 November 2021. The discussion was attended by the MPs Yavor Bojankov and Krasimir Tsipov. As a result of the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 12 votes for the Council of Bulgaria, without abstention and 7 votes, proposed to the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria to adopt a bill amending the Law on Value Added Tax, No 054-01-43, submitted by Krasimir Georgiev Zipov and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 15 May 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u21	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sabeva. Colleagues, the motives of the importer Mr. Veselinov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u22	Madam President, honourable Members! I'll try to be as brief as possible. More than two weeks ago, we submitted this bill as part of the implementation of the anti-crisis package, which IMRO published on March 25th. The fact is that the crisis struck differently the different industries and the most affected in this regard were transport, agriculture and tourism, and in the sector we had a complete ban on doing business for more than two months. At present, not all the bans have been lifted. At the initiative of Deputy Prime Minister Krasimir Karakachanov then a number of measures were taken to support agriculture. You also remember the pressure on the retail chains for additional purchase of Bulgarian goods and a number of reliefs for the farmers. The coordination of a horizontal measure is currently underway to allow vegetable production to be further supported. In the sector "Tourism" we have proposed three main measures and, of course, quite minor measures, whose aim was to actually restart this sector, which has actually proved to be the most affected. First of all, this was support for charter flights, which, thanks to the will of the National Assembly, is already a legislative fact, and we believe that there will be an important contribution to the recovery of the sector and this is actually the first direct support of the state for the sector. The second big idea we launched was for holiday vouchers, which had to engage a resource of between 4 and 500 million. lv. and provide every working and learning voucher for access to our resorts. Unfortunately, this idea didn't get support. In one of the current bills that we see will have its partial realization, but now with focus not so much on supporting the tourism industry as supporting the people who are on the front line in the fight against COVID-19. The third big idea was, in fact, the reduction of VAT, what we are talking about right now and which we are going to discuss in the future. The fact is that the value added tax is reduced, but only on part of the tourist services. Indeed, the most victims of the restaurants, which were closed, do not fall within the scope of the reduced VAT. Despite the repeated discussions within the Coalition Council at the initial stage of this idea, we did not receive support, and that is why we submitted this bill in the way that they saw it themselves affected by the crisis by a period of a year and a half, in which we have reduced VAT to 5% and 9% VAT in general, as a permanent measure to align rates for hoteliers and restaurants. Of course, we're not just talking about support here, we're talking about lightening up. These two main motives of our bill must not be separated from each other. It is a fact that, for one reason or another, mostly because of unequal competition with the countries neighbouring in practice, our tourism industry often remains in the grey sector or at least one part of it remains in the grey sector. By leveling this preferential rate of 9% in both major tourism sectors, we are trying to compensate not only for the lost benefits for those months in which the business was closed, but we are making it competitive. That's why we all have to keep tabs. This measure supports job retention and an increase in income in this sector. It is not social, it is a measure in the direction of preserving economic growth in Bulgaria or at least of minimizing the damage on it. It is a fact that in the subsequent debates within the Coalition and in the subsequent public debate we have reached another solution which is materialized in the bill submitted by Mr. Tzipov and supported by all of us. There we are talking about a temporary measure, but for IMRO this temporary measure must become permanent after proving its effectiveness, because we continue to argue that on the basis of increased insurance contributions and on the basis of increased collection will be very soon proven, not in this year, which is, of course, crisis, but in the next one, that there will be no damage to the fisce. On the contrary, we could make additional revenue. So normally at the end of such a presentation, there is a call to support this bill. I will not make one, I believe that the bill of Mr. Tzipov, which we have all supported and signed, will complete this task that we have set ourselves first. And with regard to the debate our bill was supposed to open, I think we did our job. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov. Mr. Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u24	Thank you. Member of the Commission. - Madam President, at the beginning of this meeting, we asked the Minister of Finance to come here because it concerns important amendments to the tax law concerning the budget concerning the budget, ultimately, the executive. The Minister of Finance isn't here yet. We hope that perhaps he has not resigned if so, tell the MPs. If that is not the case, and he is uncomfortable to be here, we insist that the Deputy Minister of Finance, who is here in the Chamber, have allowed him to formally present the opinion of the Ministry of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Unfortunately, Minister Goranov cannot be present because he has pre-supposed commitments. The presence of Deputy Minister Velkova is ensured. Yeah, she had clearance, but I don't see her in the gym right now. Opinion of an importer on the Bill submitted by Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs. Mr. Tsonev, are you going to do the exhibition? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u26	Madam President, honourable Members! With the bill that we have tabled, we continue the policy that we started imposing on some of the sectors last year to make tax reductions through value added tax. Of course, we are very thoughtful and very careful about the crisis and, in connection with the demographic crisis, we propose to reduce the rate of 9% for VAT on children's products from pharmacy, food and some other products such as diapers, for example, for children up to 3 years. Of course, in the course of the discussion it became clear that I said it at the presentation of the Bill, and now I will say it in the Chamber, we are aware that we need much more precisely to classify which groups of goods will fall at this reduced rate, so that there will be no abuse, no ambiguities. The short time we had did not allow us to do this, but between first and second readings I declare on behalf of the importers that we will refine our proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u27	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Next up is the opinion of the Project of the Volya "Come in, Mrs. Georgieva."
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Our two proposals to reduce the VAT rate affect the education and physical health of Bulgarians. In all Member States, with the exception of Bulgaria and Denmark, the tax rate for books and textbooks is at least halved compared to the usual. In many countries in the European Union and beyond, there is not even such a rate for these products. For 20 years there has been talk of reducing VAT on books and ultimately no one has done anything so far. It's clear to the textbooks. This is a strong support for families with students and is ultimately a very good sign of the National Assembly before 24 May. Our offer to reduce the rate also applies to sports halls, sports centers and all places related to exercise and sports. This is a measure to support these businesses, because after hotels and restaurants they are the most affected by the crisis. On the other hand, we know that there are young people with a healthy lifestyle. The measure will stimulate more people to exercise and make sure that they have a strong immune system. In this sense, the proposal is part of the prevention of the health of Bulgarians. We also believe that it is a measure that will also work to reduce aggression. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u29	Thank you, dear Mrs. Georgieva. Mr. Tsipov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The proposal that we made with our fellow MPs for a change in the Value Added Tax Act provides for the introduction of a new reduced rate of tax for restaurant and catering services of 9%. Our proposal is that this should apply for a limited period of time from 1 July 2020 until the end of next year. The aim that we pursue, as this sector was closed in the literal sense of the word, is to restore the sector from the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and the other proposal is in accordance with European Union acts such as Council Directive 2018/1713 of 6 November 2018 amending Directive 2006/112/EC. This proposal provides for the introduction of a reduced rate of value added tax for the distribution and sale of artistic, scientific and educational literature. The introduction of a reduced VAT rate in the restaurant industry will lead to an estimated reduction in budget revenue for the planned period of action 1 July 2020. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the purchase, hire, maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance and maintenance of equipment for the maintenance and In the case of restaurant and catering services for July, the amount for 2020 is around 105 million. lv. VAT receipts and 2021 The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. In the case of delivery of books to physical media or carried out by electronic means, or both for this year, from July to December, the expected loss of 7 million. BGN and 2021 The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. We also propose a change in the Law on Measures and Actions during the emergency situation and overcoming its effects. We believe that with the introduction of these vouchers, we will enable all employees involved in overcoming the consequences and countering this disease to use such services. The indicative total number of beds on the premises of companies is about 15 000. The assessment of the maximum number of potential entitled persons is around 70,000. On the assumption that all entitled persons will benefit from their right to a voucher with which we propose to enter into the Law, for a vacation with their families, it could be predicted that an average of about 210 000 people will rest. Finally, I would like to address the MPs and call for this bill to be supported. Yeah, he's a temporary measure. Yes, there is a negative general opinion of the Ministry of Finance, but this opinion is an expert opinion. Our proposal is a result of a political decision. Once again, I note that it is a temporary measure to reduce the tax rate to 9%, which will apply until the end of next year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u31	Thank you, Mr. Tzipov. Mr. Simeonov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u32	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The submitted bill is actually the finale of the attempt to implement a series of measures that were proposed on April 27th with amendments to the Emergency Act. They were basically five such proposals. Three of them were adopted in the Health Act, which we have already discussed and adopted. This was an extension of the deadline for the payment of the tourist packages by the tour operators to one year. This was the period of extension of construction until 15 June 2020, as it is clear that there is no point in limiting these activities, provided that there will be no complete tourist season until then. The third, perhaps most significant, measure, which again, thanks to all of you, for which we have accepted. In fact, excuse me not all of you, colleagues from GERB and some other representatives. This was also the adoption of the measure to reduce the value of beach facilities and facilities.Sewers and sunbeds, which we believe and continue to think will be a very serious relief and a boost for domestic tourism. There, as you remember, we have adopted a decision to reduce by over 50%, with much of the beaches remaining and will be of zero value to umbrellas, sunbeds and other beach facilities. In this project we also propose the last two of our proposals from the initial project of 27 April 2020. I hope that they will be supported. The first is to reduce the VAT rate to 9% for this whole sector, which was forced into the freezer and deeply frozen by a state decision for two months. These are restaurant services and catering services and entertainment services. All these establishments were, in fact, limited and their activities were demanded... they did not carry out any activity at all. It was normal to unite, as Mr. Tzipov said, purely political, and offer to your attention a reduction in the tax, although this measure is contrary to the initially adopted Programme for the Management of the Coalition Government of GERB and the United Patriarchs. But in this programme initially adopted, as you all know, no one has in any way anticipated the severe pandemic that has caused this year's very serious damage to the tourism industry. So here we are united in art. 66, para. 2..................................................................... 1 and 2, although we have had some discussions, we are united with GERB's proposal, it is comprehensive. It covers all activities of restaurants, cafes, clear, discotheques and all other establishments that were banned from the business. So in this respect, I'm just telling you why it's a congruent t. 1 and 2, but we add etc. 3 to art. 66, para. 2 related to the reduction of VAT from the activity of both tour operators and travel agents, as they are connected vessels with tourism in Bulgaria. They may have suffered even more damage because the money they have taken for travel packages must be reimbursed to the citizens or to the groups with which contracts have been concluded. And much of this money has already been invested in travel, airlines, hotels and these companies have actually suffered even more damage since they are permanent debtors. Unlike restaurants and cafes, which just closed and had no time to make obligations except those on credit. So with t. 3 we offer the common tourist services within the meaning of art. Paragraph 136. 1 of the VAT Act also to reduce the tax rate by 9%. And the latest proposal is our idea that we have developed, as I said, even in the Emergency and Measures Act, this is the mechanism for providing vouchers. The aim is again the same state to be a real partner of the tourism industry, which I repeat, closed forcefully, shocked, within one day, and as a compensation we offer this tourist industry to be supported, again similarly, with the provision of the opportunity for civil servants to visit hotels, restaurants, rest facilities and so on, accommodations. The mechanism is developed by art. Art. 27, Art. 34 in our proposal. I would just like to draw your attention to the proposal of colleagues from GERB and why we actually had to make this proposal. The main difference is that in GERB's proposal vouchers are provided only to civil servants to visit only state bases, in general. This is not right in our view, even in a large way, without any sound sense, as these civil servants can visit these bases at the moment. We therefore submit a text proposing that these state bases be.. naturally, we are not opposed to using them with all their available security, equipment and staff, but that being an advantage in the provision of vouchers. The rest of the people who are unable to use state bases let them have access to tourist sites. This is the point of such a proposal, which aims to help the tourism industry. Otherwise, we are not helping the state support its own holiday bases. In this spirit we have prepared our proposals, especially in art. 27 we have tried to list these categories of civil servants who should have priority rights to benefit from vouchers. These are besides the proposals that are of the main importer from GERB, we have added regional health insurance cases, which are seconded to regional health inspections because many of the workers in the regional cases have been posted to fight the virus, we also add mediators who have also borne the weight of the management, especially in some critical places - the ghettos and therefore, and we give the specific proposals for providing a holiday within 7 days to the value of 210 BGN, which coincides with GERB's proposal. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: We describe the mechanism of preparation of vouchers, their printing, their protection, the mechanism of granting, the mechanism of control, sanctions for persons who do not use or abuse the possibility of vouchers provided, and so on and so forth. To use one fact from Mr. Tzipov's statement before me, he says that with the provision of vouchers to these first-line persons, 210 thousand people will benefit from it. In itself, limitation only at state holiday bases is impossible because... [[Reply from DPS: "75 thousand. "]] Two hundred and ten was said to hear it with my ears. [[Reply.]] Okay, we're not going into dialogue. That was said, you'll see from the stenogram. The public holiday bases have some 15 thousand seats, so there is no way, including turning a few shifts, to accommodate these people. I propose and appeal to you to support our proposal, as we will support all reasonable proposals of the other Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u33	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. An importer's opinion, Mrs. Ninova? [[(Reply:]] The way you're holding it, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u34	Dear Mr. Chairman, with the firm intention that what I am about to say now should not sound petty to you and to Mr. Simeonov, but in my opinion, there are still points in the Rules that speak of conflict of interest. And since, in my opinion, at least Mr. Simeonov is in conflict of interest with this statement, it was right for him to declare it. For me, the more serious problem in this case... [[Reply.]] I don't know if there is, he has to say if there's a conflict of interest. I don't establish a conflict of interest. For me, however, the more serious problem in this case is if there is this conflict of interest that he is an importer. The fact that he has not announced it in this Chamber is certainly a violation of the Rules of Procedure, which is why I am addressing you with a procedure in the manner of conduct. But the more embarrassing for me are, after all, both the things he talks about. Because vouchers apply not only to the state, but also to the private, in my opinion, also to one degree or another, to the people who are affected in this business. As far as I know, he is. Again, I don't know if he is. He has to say whether he is or not I may be mistaken, but the very fact that the removal of the VAT actually benefits him in some way. I'm not saying this shouldn't be done. However, I say that conflict of interest must be established. It would be a problem for me, too, if there is a conflict of interest, the fact that he is an importer and not so much that he has not announced it in the statement, as if as an importer this already violates, in my opinion, the rules of parliamentaryism.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u35	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. I didn't understand my place in this case. I don't think I can establish a conflict of interest either, and I wouldn't suspect. It's a job Mr. Simeonov has to decide. We'll continue with the next bill. Mr. Gechev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u36	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The BSP for Bulgaria is proposing amendments to the Law, which rest on the systematic approach of the European Union, on careful analysis of the positive and risky countries of changes in value added tax and on the effects of the Bulgarian economy. We offer 9% VAT, i.e. a reduction of the total 20% for the group of foodstuffs, the group of medicines for humanitarian purposes and medical devices, which are established on the list and paid by the budget of the NHIF. Honourable Members, it is known that budgetary policy in cases and in budgetary revenue is linked to the provision of budgetary revenue through direct and indirect taxes. Secondly, this effect is also social when applying a differentiated approach to income redistribution taxes and increasing the purchasing power of the poorer. And thirdly, the intersection between budgetary policy, tax policy, including differentiated taxes related to the promotion of economic growth and gross domestic product, is consistent if the government has a corresponding sectoral policy. Our approach is systematic, honourable colleagues, because, with the exception of Denmark, all member states of the European Union, and Bulgaria, of course, have an extremely well developed differentiated VAT policy, Italy has five rocks, France has five rocks, Ireland has five scales of VAT, Austria, we said, there are five rocks, Poland has four rocks and so on. For example, Poland sie 23% total VAT, 8% for foodstuffs, 5% for certain foodstuffs, zero per cent for domestic transport; Italy sie 22% total VAT, 10% for groceries, medical equipment, hotels and restaurants, 5% for basic food groups; France sieve scale, 20% total VAT, 10% total for food and soft drinks and so on; Germany also has three VAT levels, reducing VAT for food, water, medical equipment to 7%. The same applies to Ireland, Austria. As I said, there are only two countries - Bulgaria and Denmark. But I would like to tell you, honourable Members, that Denmark is a bit of a country. There education is free, including higher education, and health is actually also free. So in practice Bulgaria is the only country in the European Union that has no differentiated value added tax, there are no concessions for certain suppliers of goods and services, there are no preferences for people with different incomes. Our proposal, apart from the food group, concerns the group of medicines, and here the differences are dramatic, honourable Members, for example, in France 20% total VAT. Colleagues, two whole and one tenth is the drug tax in France; in Greece, 24 percent VAT, 6% VAT for medicines; in Sweden, 25% VAT is VAT, zero VAT for medicines is in Sweden. Perhaps you're asking yourself the question: is how things are in our sister-in-laws? Here's how they stand: in the Czech Republic. 21% VAT, differentiated tax 10% for medicines; in Estonia. 20% VAT, 9% for medicines; in Hungary.. 27% VAT, the highest, 5% for medicines; Latvia? 21 per 12; Lithuania.. 21 per 5%; Poland.. 23%, 8% for medicines; Romania.. 19% VAT, 9% for medicines; Slovakia..... 20% VAT, 10% for medicines. The conclusion, honourable Members, we from the BSP for Bulgaria and we propose that our approach in VAT be such that we are not the only country in the European Union where medicines are sold with the same VAT as for alcohol, which is for other cheap or more expensive food products, which is for clothing and so on, that is to say, we want to solve social, economic and health problems here. Furthermore, honourable Members, we have done a comparative analysis and our estimates show that in the short term the differentiation of value added tax in our proposal means a reduction in budget revenues by a billion and 116 million. BGN, including 742 million. lv. From groceries and 374 million lv. Of medicines and medical equipment, however, the positive effect is about 450 million. lv. and the positive effects of the VAT differentiation in specific terms, our estimates show the following. Firstly, a reduction in the budget costs for medicines, which means honourable Members, that hundreds of millions reduce the costs of the NHIF for buying medicines in the part of the VAT coverage. This means two things: firstly, it will reduce the budget costs for the NHIF and, secondly, if they do not decrease to the same extent, the NHIF will have more resources for health care. Secondly, the VAT reduction reduces the prices of these goods or retains their increase, leading to an increase in demand for these goods, respectively, to an increase in turnover. And even if VAT is lower, with an increased turnover of the group of goods concerned, it leads to greater budget revenues. Thirdly, the shrinking of the gray sector and an increase in tax revenues. This effect that we have calculated from these first three factors is 450 million. lv. In fourth place, unfortunately, the Republic of Bulgaria has the largest share of the cost of buying food from the incomes of households. With the reduction of household spending on food and medicines we will emerge from this unprestigious first position, where about 60% of the Bulgarians' revenues go to buy food. Fifthly, countercyclical policy is always applied, especially now in the face of a emerging, deepening economic crisis, because the reduction of gross domestic product is not in our opinion, but according to the European Commission, it will be not three, but 10%. And whenever economies enter into an economic crisis, regardless of what it is caused, governments are obliged to take countercyclical measures, including with tax differentiation. To conclude, honourable Members, I would like to emphasise that we are proposing something that reflects your proposal. In the proposals of the other parliamentary groups you propose the reduction of VAT not to groups of goods, but to certain activities. I would like to emphasise, in the interest of the truth, that such a reduction of these activities exists in all the Member States of the European Union. That is true, it should not be denied, but nowhere in the European Union, honourable Members, there is only for individual activity, there are for groups of goods. In other words, the approach is systemic and affects the whole economy. Otherwise, with your decision, if you support it, which is included in our systematic approach, but if only your proposal remains, you are actually putting into conflict the different sectors of the Bulgarian economy and do not doubt that this will cause huge social and political tensions, but it is your responsibility. Secondly, keep in mind that we offer constant differentiation of VAT rather than differentiation, as some colleagues suggest, for just a few months or a year. Ladies and gentlemen, so far, please listen to.. No such policy has been applied anywhere with temporary differentiation of VAT for several months or one year. Such a policy of coming to me with VAT will not accept any reasonable government, and at least the Minister of Finance, there is no need to argue for a few months. If this system works, it must remain to work, otherwise chaos is introduced into the entire tax system. In conclusion, given the particularities of this crisis, the BSP for Bulgaria is consistent. We may, for the fifth or sixth time, submit this proposal for the implementation of the broad European practice in Bulgaria with careful estimates, differentiated VAT, which will also help the solution of another very specific Bulgarian problem. Bulgaria is the only country in the European Union, where the budget relies solely on indirect taxes and not on direct taxes, as is in all other countries of the European Union. We can use the challenges of this crisis if you support us to solve both temporary problems of this crisis and structural problems of the tax legislation of the Republic of Bulgaria. I call on you to support our proposal - it is systematic, it is European, it includes the activities that you propose, and by voting for it, you will actually realise your intentions, and we will minimize the negative effects in the short and long term. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u37	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Mr. Rykov, please come in for one procedure and then another.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u38	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I propose the time limit for written proposals under art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly under the General Law of the First Voting adopted on 14 May 2020 Draft for amendment and supplement of the Waste Management Act to be extended by one week and 14 days.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u39	Thank you. I will put to the vote the procedural proposal made. They voted 122 MPs: for 122, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted. One more procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u40	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I propose to extend the working time until the debate is completed and the vote on item one on today's plenary agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u41	We're extending the whole thing? I get it. [[Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria ":" There will be no control again? "]] We extend working hours and maintain control. How does that sound?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u42	Will the time of control be reduced? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u43	Colleagues, I propose that we extend the working time until the debate is over and the vote on the item on the agenda that we are currently looking at and then start the control that is scheduled for today.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u44	Yeah, now it's clear. I'm voting on the procedural proposal... [[Noise and lines.]] A reverse opinion? Okay, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u45	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are making a reverse proposal because if we extend, as you suggest, colleague, working hours, this means that you will take from the time of control. Therefore, if we continue the debate here until 13.40, there will be only 20 minutes of control. Given that we have not had control over several months, we do not find it normal in a parliamentary republic.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u46	You had control last week!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u47	That is why we are making a counter-proposal to continue on the agenda. Of course, we can also hold an extraordinary meeting if the laws are to be voted on, but let's have one. And don't take away the opposition's right to parliamentary control! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u48	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. I will now put to the vote the proposal made by Mr. Rykov. Vote 160 MPs: 101, against 52, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u49	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! This year perhaps it was not a coincidence that the holy holidays Easter and the month of Ramadan coincided with one of the great trials for mankind in our modern times, and the subsequent state of emergency. Religions are with a message from the Most High not to impose on the world political, economic, or social models, but to give patterns of conduct reduced to us through the sacred books and instructions of God's messengers to facilitate their subsequent generations in difficult situations and daily trials. Following the high sensitivity and care for life and public health as the main postulates in religions, the guides of the basic faiths in Bulgaria and their ministers showed a high degree of maturity and responsibility in an emergency situation. Difficult decisions were made to limit fundamental traditional and canonical obligations in the execution of religious services, especially considering still living memories of religious and ethnocultural bans of totalitarian regime. Such are the Mass of Christians and the daily festive and Friday collective prayers of Muslims, traditional Yftar dinners and night collective prayers and sermons in the last 10 days of Ramadan. In these days of trials for the people of Bulgaria and around the world we, the MPs of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, express our gratitude to all believers for the spiritual deprivations and the complex religious trials to which they were subjected due to the pandemic, and the responsibility and empathy, guided by the basic principles of religions. This year the sacred month of Ramadan was very different. During this crisis, Islamic values such as compassion, gratitude, generosity and nobility echoed stronger than ever. The month of Ramadan, which is the time for mercy and spiritual contemplation, reminds us to place the needs of others before our own. Dear Muslims, on behalf of the President and the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, I wish the blessed and peaceful last days of Ramadan and generous of goods and full of trusting festive Bayram! Let your prayers be accepted, let your strong health, togetherness and protection in our families and society, spiritual satisfaction, peace and Berkeett be only part of the Most High's rewards for you! Happy Ramadan Bayram! [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u50	Thank you, dear Mr. Sadakov. We're moving on to the Bill. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In today's debates, we start with a very dangerous, especially in crisis, the position of the people in charge of instability, a lack of understanding what is right and what is wrong, a zero understanding that changes in tax policy can be a good tool for achieving stability in the economy and consumption, but can also very dangerously stir economic relations. Firstly, I do not know if your proposals, since I am not a constitutional judge, correspond to art. 60, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria because in 1996 there is an interpretation solution, namely art. 60 speaks of the following: The citizens are obliged to pay taxes and fees established by law and not established by law, which means that citizens must know in advance, before the beginning of the financial year, the taxes and their amount that they will pay. I have to admit, I can't figure out exactly what you're up to with the ruling coalition. I understand that you want to support certain sectors of restaurants, hotels. Well, you have a special economic plan to support these sectors, don't you? Why in these sectors where the State is responsible for their full closure, the measure 60/40 does not become, for example, 80/0, 100/0, 60/0? Here is a real measure with which you can support certain sectors instead of taking measures in the middle of the year, which, see, they were, first, political, then temporary, then aimed to lighten the economy. But wait, what is your goal? After all, when you want to make a tax reform, we at BSP call for a comprehensive tax and insurance reform. Someone will say yes, but you BSP also offer tax reductions. But we are entirely consistent in our position! For several years we have proposed a reduction in food tax and medicines, but, of course, this must also be linked to the income tax of individuals. Because if you have a differentiated tax in value added tax, then of course it must be linked to a differentiated tax and to the taxation of personal income. And that's what's happening all over the world. And this is an all-European practice. I turn to Citizens for the European Development of Bulgaria. So if we want to make a sound reform, I think the time is really to bring together efforts and every single reform that we propose here in Parliament to have an impact assessment, to have the necessary expertise, not to cause chaos, not to cause conflict between the different sectors, between the individual employers, between those who are possibly closer to power, others are further away from power. Just make a reform that meets the expectations of Bulgarian citizens. I don't see anything wrong with that, and I don't understand this hasty and hasty. It is unlikely that the measure will help precisely these sectors, provided that you currently have tools to directly support these sectors. I don't understand why, for example, 60/40 is not transformed precisely for these sectors?! At the same time, here in Parliament, you are united by the ruling majority that there must be the necessary change. And suddenly the finance minister comes up with an opinion that talks about a collapse of public finances, which starts to scare with a huge increase in taxes in order to compensate, which you are currently offering and which you are not sure will have an effect on. Explain to me what logic is. Either I don't understand what we're doing here and what you're suggesting, or there's some kind of plan to really break everything before you leave. It doesn't make sense to take action on a piece. We want a comprehensive reform that will lead the country towards sustainable economic growth, not only because, if we want to enter the currency mechanism and into the banking union, colleagues, it is no accident that our partners in Europe are asking us for structural reforms so that we have the real convergence that leads us to sustainable growth. They want it because we enter some sectors that are extremely volatile, in which the shocks that come from other economies must be absorbed by us. They want these reforms from us not so much because of them, but rather because of us, because in these sectors we will find it difficult to resist. These debates must be guided and drawn up the path of these structural changes in the individual leading sectors. I don't understand why you don't understand. Every economist will say that Bulgaria's main problem is not that the taxes are 9, 10 and 12%. With us, the main problem is that our potential for economic growth cannot be the one to catch up with European economies, honourable Members. Our economy more than 3.4% can hardly grow because with the factors for this growth potential.. as capital, as a quality of the workforce, such as the deployment and use of new technologies, we are definitely behind our European partners. That is why their reluctance is also telling us about our lack of willingness to enter these extremely heavy sectors, such as the currency mechanism and the banking union. At the same time, instead of preparing and thinking precisely about this crisis, which is currently a prerequisite for building a stable economy that can only overcome shocks, we propose measures per piece, which are however political, which are temporary, which will lighten the economy because we are unable to control the economy and illuminate it. I can't understand why you're doing this, given that the Finance Minister told you that a very difficult situation is really coming? You want to help some people, but then have the courage, the valor to tell which other people will in this way be raised taxes if you do not offer other measures. At the moment, the instruments are with you, but if you really want to start serious debates about sustainable economic growth, about a potential that this economy should have, then here is the place, in this room, to really draw the path that will not only be for this National Assembly, but also for subsequent generations. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u52	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. - What's the line? I won't. We continue with the speeches. Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u53	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would very much like to address my colleagues today from these chairs that are empty. It does not sound very serious to discuss the most important document of the state in the absence of the finance minister and other ministers from the cabinet, including the prime minister. I would like to hear in their absence and the opinion of the ruling coalition protected by experts, but it is evident that this will not happen. I say this because in the estimates we were familiar with in the Financial Ministry Report, as an opinion of the Finance Minister, there is one technical error in my opinion. In our proposed reduction of the VAT on medicines of 9%, the figure of one billion is mentioned a little over a billion and a half. This is impossible in a budget of the Health Insurance Fund of four and a half billion. The reduction by 11% of the medicines alone, which is a feather from it and is a feather of about a billion and two hundred and three hundred million, to achieve such a collapse of a billion and five hundred and several million. I think that here is just the place where the comma between the numbers is placed, and the real value is about 150 million, not a billion and a half. Today, at first reading, we must motivate our proposal why we want to reduce VAT on medicines at this time. Because, honourable Members, you have loved ones and you know that we are currently reporting a refusal of treatment due to a refusal of the consumption of basic goods that ensure the life and health of Bulgarian citizens. Today, Bulgarian citizens, and those who are socially weak, are afraid to give 50, 60, 70 to 100 BGN to provide the medicines needed not only for their health, but also for their lives. We, in the coming months, will witness an increase, an exacerbation of chronic diseases, which will lead the medics to their much more difficult mastery. The reason for this is because today, for financial reasons, we interrupt the possibility of adequate treatment of Bulgarian patients. Here I want to counter these experts, too, perhaps in quotes that say that if you see this reduction in the VAT on medicines will only result in the profit of pharmaceutical sharks. This is not because we all know that in the end VAT pays the end consumer, and the end consumer is the Bulgarian citizen, the Bulgarian patient, the Bulgarian patient who goes to get his medicines from retailers in the pharmacies, and there pays the VAT on the price of what he gets. I think the issue of reducing VAT on medicines is particularly relevant today. It is up to date in principle, but today in the conditions of a pandemic that will continue, and its tail will be in an innumerably large period of time, we need to provide adequate conditions for the treatment of Bulgarian citizens if we really want to take care of it. There is no reasonable motive, there is no reasonable argument to tell us why we do not want to reduce the VAT on medicines. I would like to hear an argument from the finance minister to tell me: Mr. Yordanov, we do not want to reduce medicines, because we need to provide money for people's pensions or we want to provide money for education, kindergartens or something else. Today we are witnessing the proposals that concern a small part of the Bulgarian society - the so-called hoteliers and restaurants - and we oppose them to the socially weak two and a half million Bulgarian pensioners, which we force to buy more expensive medicines to ensure the financial comfort of a small part that has nothing to do with this. I cannot accept this and call on you in this part, which concerns medicinal supply and provision, to agree together and to achieve a reduction in VAT. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u54	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Procedure? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u55	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, we voted this morning and have granted permission to the Deputy Minister of Finance, who is not yet in the Chamber. When the National Assembly invites an official or citizen of the Republic of Bulgaria to attend, not only to attend, but also to take part, and he is obviously not present in the Chamber, he is obliged to implement this decision of the National Assembly, which we have all here with our vote this morning. Where is the Deputy Minister of Finance to present the Ministry's Opinion on these laws? No member of the Council of Ministers or the Ministry of Finance itself is present here today, in the Chamber, but we are looking at amendments to the VAT Act. Where is the Chairman of the Budget Committee?? Mrs. Stoyanova? At least let her come here and present the opinion of the Ministry of Finance. None of these people are here. What are we debating, what are we doing right now? Ask again at least the Deputy Minister to come here and implement the National Assembly decision, to come to this stand and to read or defend the opinion of the Ministry of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u56	Thank you, Mr. Popov. I'll see where the Deputy Minister of Finance is. Speech or procedure, Mr. Svilensky? Come in for a procedure, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Chairman, what is really happening in the National Assembly is unacceptable. We're looking at four laws on VAT change. Laws that concern all Bulgarian citizens. What we see is no prime minister, no minister of finance, no president of the Budget Committee, no deputy minister of finance, no speeches from the government. Who in this room defends the government's proposals? Who presents to the Bulgarian citizens the proposals for taxes that they have to pay? Not even the Ministry of Finance's parliamentary secretary. You understand, Mr. Chairman, in what situation the Bulgarian Parliament is working. People's representatives stand and wait for someone to come to explain what is being proposed. There is no one to present the opinion of the Ministry of Finance and you stand silently behind me and watch and give the floor to people who do not want to speak. How can they speak when these people don't want to speak? They want to hear the Minister of Finance, they want to hear the Deputy Minister of Finance, they want to hear the President of the Budget Committee, who is otherwise very talkative, but today is silent. Let Mrs. Stoyanova come and say her opinion. She is the person who manages the budget and finances in Parliament and we need to hear her opinion. Where's the Minister of Finance? If he resigned, tell us not to look for him. Where's the Deputy Minister? If he resigned, shouldn't we be looking for him? But we can't look at five budget laws and not have any of the people who are directly involved. I propose an interruption of the meeting as these persons appear in Parliament and tell their institutions the opinions of both the Budget Commission and the Ministry of Finance. If not, let Mr. Borisov come because you all claim that he is not afraid of anything and he will explain what his cabinet offers, and what is his attitude on the proposals of the coalition partners and GERB. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u58	Thank you, Mr. Slivensky. Here you go, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u59	Mr. Chairman, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My procedure is as follows: my colleague before me listed the positions that are absent as representatives of the government, but while we are waiting for them to come there was also a vote for admission, I propose that one of the applicants, a person who has signed a proposal, namely colleague Budinov, should come and present what he has submitted. We'll be completely correct, we'll forgive him if he makes another lapsus, but as one of the importers, it's nice to protect his offer. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u60	Mr. Chenchev, the offer of an importer was protected by Mr. Tzipov. I'm going to vote on Mr. Svilensky's proposal. Vote 136 MPs: 48 against 79 abstentions 9. The offer is not accepted. Procedure? Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u61	Madam President, Mr Vice-President, honourable Members! You just voted a vote of no confidence in the government. Do you understand what you've done? You've just voted a no-confidence vote! You don't want the Prime Minister, you don't want the Minister of Finance, you don't want the Chairman of the Budget Committee, you don't want Deputy Ministers. What do you want? Let them go! And while we wait for them to leave, let me tell you, colleagues, that at the moment the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance in Pernik are riding with the SUV may be handing out the unspoken money you still have in VAT.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u62	Mr. Svilensky, I don't understand the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u63	I propose a revoting procedure to protect your government, your ministers, your deputy ministers, otherwise, honourable Members, this is a vote of no confidence in the government that you have chosen.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u64	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Colleagues, we're overreacting.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u65	What are we voting on?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u66	He wanted to interrupt the meeting, we disagree. Colleagues, because I see a misunderstanding in this case. Mr. Svilensky suggested that we interrupt the meeting until the persons listed by him arrive. I shall put this proposal to the vote. There's no misunderstanding in this case! Vote 142 MPs: 53, Against 87, abstention 2. The offer is not accepted. Let's get back to work. Mr. Chenchev, I give you the floor, if you want for a procedure, I'll give it to you again if you want a speech, too. We'll continue with the speeches, colleagues. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u67	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I am taking this statement in relation to the proposals made by MPs, which we are going to look at today with regard to the differentiated VAT rate, returning me to the procedure because the negotiators mentioned how much they want the Council of Ministers to be here. The Council of Ministers is not importers of this bill, colleagues, there are proposals from all parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u68	There's also an opinion from the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u69	The opinion of the Ministry of Finance, Madam President, has been sent to the Budget Committee and all MPs who can read and have asked have been informed of it. It was uploaded to the website and it's still sitting on the budget and finance committee's website. I've had the opportunity to meet him, and I suppose the colleagues from the Budget Committee have done so, so let's be correct when we speak. I strive to be correct in my speeches as far as possible. Colleagues, the unprecedented situation that has been created in Bulgaria and the world in terms of the expansion of the CIVID-19 epidemic has not passed the Bulgarian business and economy. In this regard is the proposal of GERB's parliamentary group to differentiate the rate of services in the restaurant industry, the hospitality sector, which was most affected by the measures regarding the distribution of COVID-19. That is why, colleagues, in the middle of the year we are looking at this measure and I think that everyone who wants to save Bulgarian tourism, the Bulgarian economy, which has about 11 percent of the gross domestic product and is formed directly and indirectly by this sector, should support this measure. I would like to emphasise that the measure proposed by GERB's parliamentary group regarding the differentiation of the VAT rate is a temporary measure. We, colleagues, have only recorded that our proposal is from 1 July 2020 to 31 December 2021, precisely to address the economic consequences of this sector. My deep understanding is that this will not reduce the price for the end-user and none of this industry has said that this reduction of VAT will really be expressed for this sector, that it will be carried over to the prices of the services they offer to Bulgarian or foreign citizens, tourists in Bulgaria. It is precisely a measure aimed entirely at supporting the business, colleagues, and it is in a package of many other measures that are very well known and have been mentioned even by the pre-spokesmen of the National Assembly. I would like to stress that until last week 150 000 Bulgarian citizens have kept their jobs thanks to the measure 60/40. It is correct, fellow Members, to note the following that no one focuses on the other proposal. I will allow myself to do so, which is linked to the proposal of GERB's parliamentary group to reduce the VAT rate to 9%, namely the required insurance income on the main economic activities, namely on hotel and restaurant services. This, colleagues, is very important because it is very clear here to make the distinction which is to business, which is to citizens and workers in the sector, because 75 thousand Bulgarian citizens work in the hotel and restaurant services sector and in the field of tourism. In this regard, fellow Members, our proposal is also legally bound by increasing their minimum insurance income. The goals you can interpret for yourself, colleagues, for me this is a comprehensive protection of workers in this sector, because the insurance that will bring their employers into state social security means greater security for them against unemployment, payment of unemployment benefits, sickness, maternity. This is the protection of 75 000 working Bulgarian citizens in this sector. Therefore, we cannot look at the two proposals remotely from each other, for me they are interconnected. And to stress again that this is a temporary measure that we are proposing. Certainly the other Members of the Chamber who spoke before, and will certainly speak after me, mentioned their proposals. Yes, colleagues, I agree that you have a different view on taxes, you are consistent in this really change entirely of the tax system in Bulgaria. The government of GERB and the United Patriarchs..... except with their election program of GERB, then the signed management agreement states that the taxes of Bulgarian citizens and business will not be increased. And that's true. Don't try to make suggestions that aren't true from this tribune. [[(Reply from BSP: The Minister of Finance said so.]] No, a line from the room can then be made to answer. Thank you. Once again, this timely measure is entirely oriented on the maintenance of the 75 thousand jobs. Bulgarian citizens, as I have mentioned, that and more, I hope that they will receive their remuneration and be provided on a higher value to have greater security both in the future and in pensions. However, colleagues, we cannot really tie the change of the tax system at this time to these proposals of yours, as far as the Ministry of Finance is concerned, because I have come to know the opinion, the suggestion of this tribune of the rise in other taxes is incorrect. It has been wrongly made as an suggestion and I disagree with it, colleagues, because it is said that all proposals, if taken in sum, are 2 billion. BGN, which will damage the revenue part of the fissure. Here we really talk about a distinction between direct and indirect taxes and how the Bulgarian tax system will be developed in the future is the subject of future discussions for sure, but not by the current government. That is why our proposal in this direction is aimed at really preserving these jobs, developing this business and supporting the sector, I say again, as a time measure by the end of December 2021. Colleagues, it is very important to note something else. When we talk about indirect taxes in Bulgaria and what is the system of tax-oriented companies, tens of years back, giving examples from other countries of differentiated rates, of food, medicines and whatnot, was not expressed by this tribune. It is very important to give the example full because the tax system consists of direct and indirect taxes, colleagues. When you quote data from these countries on indirect taxes, in terms of today's debate on VAT rates, at the very least, it is fair to say that it is most honest to the people who follow the debates in Parliament to be aware of the picture of what direct taxes are in these countries, because the integrity of direct and indirect taxes forms really the majority of the country's revenue policy and fiscal policy. Therefore, by throwing in the space of both the media and the committees, and today from the stands of the National Assembly, the correct data, I do not dispute about figures and numbers, but few, without the full picture of the tax policies of the other countries of Europe, there were even examples of the world, leaves the impression in the debate observers for incomplete picture and cannot build, how to say it, the clearest idea of what we are talking about, what we are debating. Therefore, colleagues, GERB's parliamentary group will support its own proposal and, again, I say, the prices of the services will not be lowered. The change in VAT for this I dare to engage, and why would I not support your proposals? Because your proposals are mostly bound as motivation by reducing the price for end users. Unfortunately, the differentiated VAT rate does not work exactly so and many of you talking on this topic know it, but have saved it on political and rhetorical terms. Even if you want, it sounds like you will fall the prices of these goods that you offer, reducing the VAT rate, and in reality, you know it won't work that way. Thank you, colleagues. I'm looking forward to replicating because I see that there are requests from the auditorium. [[Private applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u70	First, Mr. Danchev, then, Mr. Atanasov and Mr. Nedyalkov, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u71	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, I would like to ask you if you feel any shame in defending your proposal, because the whole country knows that this proposal was not made by the people who signed it, but by the Prime Minister. He was the one who made this proposal, and led not by any economic logic that you are obviously trying here with difficulty to subtract, but only by the thought of your personal rating. It is clear that the Prime Minister made this proposal, not you, because he does not like protests and is afraid of them.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u72	Mr. Danchev, what's the line? Don't characterize the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u73	The line is to Mr. Ivanov because when he defends a proposal, Mr. Ivanov should be able to tell the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u74	Thank you, dear Mr. Danchev. Mr. Atanasov, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u75	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, you have made a good statement, especially about the principle of tax policy formation, you said precisely the mechanism, direct, indirect taxes, but as if you did not finish. Maybe you should've stressed a few numbers because... You're listening to me, aren't you? Yeah. ...Mr. Ivanov, in Western Europe especially, and in other countries direct taxes are the main tax revenues, unlike Bulgaria. That's what my colleagues at the Left said. The Bulgarian budget, mainly the Bulgarian fisk, is filled with indirect taxes from VAT, excise taxes. Only the VAT in the fissure includes 11 billion per year for 2019. But to tell you this, the taxes in Western Europe are not the same as the Bulgarians. Here are the lowest 10 percent. I will give an example, because today in the debate were constantly set out as an example of Germany and France, and it is normally the most powerful countries in Western Europe: 47% tax in Germany, and 51% in France. Not to mention the Nordic countries, where everything is over 60%. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Over 60% direct taxes! Western countries find it easy to touch indirect taxes because their main income comes from direct taxes. Here I understand some of the fisca and the ministry of finance are cautious because it is the middle of the year and we are waiting for our basic income from indirect taxes, which amount to 23 billion. lv. So in this regard, I am asking you this question. Go out and explain to our MPs...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u76	The weather, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u77	...why this policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u78	Thank you. Mr. Nedyalkov, come in for a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u79	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ivanov, I listened carefully to your speech because it was a rare statement that justified things, but I did not understand a few of them. For example, you say: to reduce VAT rates for the hotel, restaurant and catering business. These are the three spheres you said. I ask you: how much with this bill do you change the rate for the hotel business? [[Reply by MP Daniela Daritkova.]] Yeah, but that's what he said.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u80	You're not reading, are you?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u81	No, no, I'm reading. I'm just talking about his speech. I listened very well to Mr. Ivanov, that's what he said! The second, which was difficult to understand in the arguments that you put out, said: prices in the restaurant business will not fall and I do not promise that. I ask: what are your calculations to support the restaurant business only from the tax credit that the state will return to the restaurant owners for the higher rate of 20% VAT on the goods they buy? Is that somewhere calculated? Do you have that? And the third is good, the restaurant business goes with the hotels. During the entire time of the COVID crisis catering services were working they were creating a product. Even the restaurants that used to work worked with catering services. Why are they included in this group, on which you are proposing to reduce the tax rate? That's how the debate is essentially about it. Thank you for your attention. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u82	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. Hole, Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u83	Mrs. Chairman! Dear colleagues replicating, thanks for the lines, some for me a little bit not to the substance. To colleagues Danchev and Nedyalkov I would respond directly as follows. You can ask one of your party's vice-presidents whose proposal these are and whether he asked you why you do not support our proposal, speaking of consistency. It is not like the political party GERB to make internal party intrigues. I'm sorry that you went out on the stand and tried to make one. If such exist in your party, please do not transfer them to ours. [[Applause and cheering "Bravo" by GERB.]] Mr. Atanasov, thank you for the line. Indeed, in my speech, I tried to briefly touch on the difference between Bulgarian and Western European tax policies and where the main part of the revenues in our budgets is formed. In Bulgaria, almost 11 billion. lv. is the expected VAT revenue alone. Forming, there are other indirect taxes that come in, this is an account, so you said 23 billion. So in the middle of the year, the change affecting only this sector, which to me is the most affected by the epidemic and the restrictive measures on the spread of the coronavirus, is the right one. The data you quoted about 50% direct taxes in these countries are quite correct.. These taxes have been there for many years. In one form or another, many governments have managed on the direct taxes of those living in the countries concerned. In Bulgaria, we can only remind ourselves that it was not a bad policy: the direct tax 10% was introduced by colleagues on the left, in their management. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Separately for the other health and pension contributions that you say are now much higher in Bulgaria. For me, insurance payments should not be touched at the moment. Therefore, to stress again, our proposal has been made in time and is really only related to the support of a sector that is most affected by the spread of the coronavirus and the restrictive measures imposed by the Bulgarian government and the Headquarters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u84	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Kutev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u85	Madam President, please extend the group's time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u86	Please extend the time of all groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u87	Madam President, honourable Members! Two things I want to say. One of them is related to what the colleague just said about direct and indirect taxes. By the way, we have seen that in the recent documents, which came from the European Commission, inequality in Bulgaria is indicated as one of the huge problems of the state, and it is indeed such a problem. We are one of the countries in Europe with the greatest inequalities. This thing is generally decided precisely through the tax system.. usually, or this is one of the main instruments. What the colleague spoke about direct and indirect taxes is extremely important. It also concerns a statement by the finance minister a few days ago, when he said: now that we are going to reduce the indirect taxes that bring 11 billion into the budget, obviously by reducing one, he says we should raise the others. Only he had, from what I understand, the ridiculous idea of raising the VAT to 24 at the expense of the others we've taken down. That doesn't make much sense. For me, if we are to remove indirect taxes for certain groups, as we have proposed for food and medicines, which I think is absolutely correct, because it is aimed at levelling inequalities to one degree or another, catching up this money through other taxes, in this case, through direct taxes and through progressive taxation, becomes absolutely necessary. I'm glad some of you already understand that you can't go without it. This, by the way, is a European practice everywhere. We are the only ones who do not have it. By the way, the BSP in this Parliament of each tax procedure makes these proposals. So the issue of combining indirect tax cuts for certain things and raising progressive taxation in order for direct taxes to catch up on budget losses is, in my opinion, absolutely key and important. This is what should actually happen, if we speak specifically. However, I wanted to take the floor on another occasion. I have questions about two of the submitted draft laws. One of them is on Volya, the other is on GERB. This is about the tax rate for books. I don't understand the logic of why the textbooks are inside. I think the problem is solved there. But when it comes to books, it must have financial logic to release only delivery. To GERB, my specific question is: here you insert, including the replica, other than publications that are entirely or mainly intended for advertising. I mean, is this about the periodical? Does this mean that we release books, but we do not release periodicals or any part of them? Here the important question is that the periodicals, as well as the books, have the same problem. The problem is that at the moment, under current legislation, by inserting their goods into the bookstore or giving it to the distributor, they make an invoice and pay their VAT. They are all working on consolidation in practice, which our financial legislation currently does not allow, which means that if they have 20 or 30% sale, they pay 20% VAT immediately, and after three or four months they get back the same 20% of the sale! In fact, they finance all the turnover! And if this delivery text of yours is actually only about the delivery that, if I understand correctly, concerns the bookstores or the distributor, that means in practice that we release the bookstores, but we do not release the activity! So we don't do any work to publishers with all this text. So please first let us make a clear account, because for me, if we want to do something meaningful in all this work, I should personally think that there is no harm in maybe the periodical to enter, but whether or not it enters, it should be understood, because it is not clear to me from this text, but even if the periodical comes in, we should do it so that we release the whole chain and not just release the supplier. With the supplier we leave the chain in the same situation and from there this leads to a number of bankruptcys. It can't help but lead to bankruptcy in this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u88	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Budinov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u89	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Despite Bulgaria being in one of the first places in the least ill and at least dead by the COVID-19, which is thanks to the government and the timely measures taken, I will allow myself to disinfect the place from which I will speak [[sprays with disinfectant]] , against COVID-19 and against false BSP news. [[Radio, applause from GERB.]] Also against false political suggestion from the BSP again. [[sprinkle with disinfectant. Awesome.]] Colleagues, I understand that your party is currently having a lot of problems and you have a terrible division inside, but be more open-minded and accept this with a sense of humor. I'm saying this as a joke, and you take it as a joke, even though it's a good thing it's these jokes to tell the truth. "Dear Bulgarian citizens" quote [[Laughter at GERB]] I am extremely happy that today I am looking at such a bill and that I am one of the importers, namely in the part about reducing the VAT on the books, this is my mission, and everything related to culture here in this Forty-fourth National Assembly. I was talking about this in the elections, many people, intelligent, reading people, like most of GERB's sympathizers, were constantly asking me about the reduction of VAT on books. I am very grateful and happy that this is happening, and at the right time and in the right way. This is a gesture, a big sign to the publishers, to the authors, translators, librarians and to all reading people in Bulgaria. Believe me, there's not a lot of them. I am very glad that this is happening exactly around 24 May.. one of the best Bulgarian holidays, the Day of Slavic alphabet and the Holy Brothers Cyril and Methodius, because we have given something to the world.................................................................. we have given something to the world................................................................................................................................................................. In recent years, book publishing is in bloom. As soon as a more significant book comes out in the world, it is translated and is in Bulgaria, and it is translated well by our wonderful writers and translators. That's why I think this gesture is great, and it's at the right time. This sector deserves such a gesture and such a sign, namely the reduction, and it deserves a significant reduction in the VAT of books, as well as in the digitalisation, because this is the future. In these difficult times, thank God, the whole world understands that materiality is not the most important thing in our lives. More and more people turn to the spiritual, to the arts, to the literature and that is why the reduction of VAT on the books at the moment in Bulgaria is symbolic and is so important. This is yet another proof that science, education, culture are a priority of GERB, of the United Patriarchs and of this government, apart from any other measures that you do not recognise, but they are good and work in these sectors. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause and cheering: "Bravo!" by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u90	Thank you, dear Mr. Budinov. First line Mr. Tsonev, second line Mr. Svilenski, third line Mr. Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u91	Thank you, Madam President. Let's go into Mr. Budinov's comedy tone. Mr. Budinov, what you're trying to chase with disinfectant is not to be chased with disinfectant, but with incense. [[Laughter and applause from GERB.]] And now I'm serious. Your life's mission to reduce VAT for books is actually a DPS mission, and last year we proposed this reduction of books, if you remember, last summer you rejected it. We welcome that it is now accepted and welcome that we have somehow helped your mission to be accomplished. Thank you. [[Applause by MP Stanislav Ivanov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u92	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonev. Mr. Svilenski, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u93	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Budinov, dear colleagues! Mr. Budinov, before you disinfect, it is nice to read what you signed and what you import. Because what you said that the community centers, libraries, publishers will be pleased, do you know what you are releasing from VAT? To what do you reduce VAT? Do you know the lyrics?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u94	Yeah, I know the lyrics.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u95	You reduce VAT on the delivery of books and this is radically different from what you say. And if you need to explain it to Mrs. Stoyanova, who I have been inviting for an hour, or Mr. Borisov, or Mr. Goranov, or the Deputy Minister of Finance, to explain to you the difference between the delivery of books and what you said, which really sounds good, but will not be achieved with what you have signed because you are dealing with disinfection of the parliamentary platform. If you want to do this job, I think Mrs. Karayancheva can appoint you, there must be a vacancy, and you can take the position of the colleague who does this work every three speeches. Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u96	Thanks for the advice.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u97	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Mr. Nedyalkov, come in for a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u98	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Budinov, you really are an actor, I'll give you that. I, as an amateur, would not now remove a handkerchief to clean up after you the tribune of other harmful things in people not only from party, religious or other belongings. I'd like to get to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u99	Of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u100	If something is my cause of life, it has been achieved when it has been achieved forever and when this thing has been achieved in an environment which I have been able to prove with other arguments than the argument that we will help a certain sector because it has suffered from the COVID crisis. Your arguments have been combined here in your speech, not quite with those in the motives that you have signed, and I think that after following how the events of the last weeks have developed, they were like reducing the VAT for books for a certain period of time, it was achieved as some kind of balance, and here for one meal, let's give the other food.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u101	It wasn't like that.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u102	How could it not be? Look back, even on the Internet, it was so. These are not serious arguments and can not be a celebration of your cause as a MP. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u103	Thank you, dear Mr Nedyalkov. Mr. Budinov for the duplicate and then Mr. Atanasov for the manner of conduct, and after the manner of conduct, Mr. Apostolov, you will have the floor of speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u104	Are we taking the day off?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u105	No, no rest.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u106	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Wait till I disinfect again, you know what I'm doing. [[Disifects the microphones. Violent.]] I want to tell you something: the mission of life is not exactly said. You said this was one of my missions at the Forty-fourth National Assembly, as there are many missions that are part of culture and of doing things for these people for artists and for the cultural sector. We're also expecting a movie law, and so on, a lot of other good things that are going to happen, but that's not the subject right now. This is not the mission of my life, but one of my missions at the forty-fourth National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u107	Bravo!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u108	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev, for the good line. And from your speeches and lines to me, as far as I understand, you're not going to support this bill, are you? It gave me a very bad impression that three people from BSP did not support the Law in the Cultural Commission. I thought when it comes to culture and books, it's normal for all of us to unite, but that's it. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u109	Thank you, Mr. Budinov. Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u110	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Madam President, with great respect to you, I would like to make a comment for the following reason. Undoubtedly Mr. Budinov is a good actor, extremely good, I've seen his performances, I've seen a lot of things. Mr. Tsonev is also an extremely good economist. But from this tribune, Madam President, we shouldn't make a circus out of it. We shouldn't make a circus out of it. All sorts of things have been going on over the years here throwing cups of water, all sorts of stories have been going on, the stands are being disinfected to offend a large party group. After all, colleagues, however political differences we may have, we are all MPs. For me, what happened just now was unacceptable disinfects, incense and so on. And I can talk a lot about books, because books now everyone is trying to take credit for those VAT on books.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u111	Let it be in the statement, Mr. Atanasov, that was a remark to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u112	Let me make that statement. But even in the previous parliament, this was part of the Patriot Front Programme, and then, unfortunately, in the previous Parliament, the proposal was rejected "VAT on books," to know it. [[Private applause from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u113	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Mr. Apostolov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u114	Honourable Members, Madam President! Colleagues on the left, do not create a whirlwind with your VAT reduction demands, because this whirlwind could sweep you away. It is also in this regard that the concerns expressed by the Finance Minister that if all requests are accepted, of course it will blow up the budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u115	Just yours.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u116	If you want, then replicate me from place to place, I won't answer. And let me tell you one more thing: the government's legal policy so far has been clearly expressed both in actions and in what has happened in those three years. But, of course, when you're walking on a straight path and there's a covid-19 event, there's two options: either you keep walking your way and you don't see anything happening and you get swept up or you make a turn. And that is why, at this point, requests for a rate change appear so that we can not be in the mermaid of the right river, but to try to save the most damaged business, because this business, which we are talking about today, was closed on one day with an order, while in the other industries of industry and business life in the country they continued to operate, to work in limited conditions with lower resources, but still continued to exist. While in this business, as the people said, he was forced to stop his activities by one command and the next day for more than 66 days. And we should return that gesture. If your demands are requests for reform in the middle of the tax year, which I really agree with Mr. Tsonev, who has also stated in a straight line that such things should not be done, because this is during a budgetary procedure, which is absolutely true when you are in force majeure, in the event of such world circumstances, you need to make changes and steps aside in order to be able to compensate for part of your economy. Apart from that, colleagues, do not pour out, please, from the jar of compote only the juice, that is, by talking about taxes, indirect, direct, personal, and so on, do not dwell or look into just one indirect tax, because there is fruit in the composition, that is, a mix of a dozen more rates that form this budget. And I ask you very much, also at the end of my speech, to state that the requests to reduce this rate for books are also a request in the NFSB programme from the forty-third National Assembly, so let someone not take this thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u117	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. - What's the line? The line is Mr. Stoynev, first, second, Mr. Danchev. No, only Mr. Stoinev will make a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u118	I'll be very brief. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Madam President! Dear Mr. Apostolov, I understand your desire to help, exactly, those people who the state legally banned their business. Then let's do the measure 60/40 80/0, 100/0. Each macro-economicist will tell you that in order to have a measure effect, it is important the speed at which it goes to the needy, of course, what will it offer in the whole package of measures? Nine percent what do they mean? They still have to wait for these people to have two meters away, to leave the place, to work, he may not be able to do what's nine percent. Rather, the idea is that immediately you must have the courage and courage needed, of course, by the government, to have direct measures, not to go through a mediator, a second, a third, and from the state directly to the extremely needy. Therefore, such a measure, if you really want real thinking, for these people there must be. Credits you have had, but there must be direct assistance to what we from the opposition offer you, but you rejected. It is the only way these people will be satisfied, and otherwise we delay a problem that, due to the lack of efficiency, we will all have to pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u119	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Mr. Danchev, here's a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u120	Madam President! Mr. Apostolov, what you neglected to explain to the people in this room and beyond is actually how the reduction of VAT for the restaurant sector will help him. If it's not going to cut prices, will there be more customers there? VAT is practically a turnover tax. In order to have turnover, there must be customers, only then can this tax be effective and this aid actually reach them. How does this happen? You can't explain it because the restaurants themselves said they wouldn't cut prices. Where will the turnover come from, where will the customers come from, more so that there is real help for this sector now?! And, secondly, please do not make any suggestion that, almost not, we at BSP are against reducing the VAT on books, but do not confuse what you propose.. the reduction of VAT on the delivery of books, with what we want from BSP, namely to reduce the tax on the whole process from publishing to the realization of the books. Thank you. [[Private applause from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u121	Thank you, Mr. Danchev. Third line? I can't see. Here you are, Mr. Apostolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u122	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Indeed, her business in the Budget Commission explicitly stated that prices would not fall, but they would not rise in reduced demand. Apart from that, as you all know, it is said in the Bill that this is a temporary measure to see how business will react. The business made a commitment with its speeches in the Budget Commission, which Mr. Gechev neglected to say in his statement that he quoted data, i.e. the data that I will say are data that the business quoted, and these are the official data: about 75 thousand employed in the sector, 94% of them receive a minimum wage, and the business is committed if this measure to reducing the VAT rate is adopted, the minimum remuneration will be 800 BGN, i.e. the positive effect on the Fisk will be 79.85 BGN. per month of each person employed or in annual plan BGN 71 865 That's it! And as I said, this money will come to the business immediately because, by opening the restaurants, Mr. Danchev, these establishments must now buy the necessary products, the necessary materials, the goods to function. They will benefit from 20% tax credit at the moment and, of course, at the end of the first month when they report their income, they will pay their monthly VAT return the reduced rate of 9% and these 11% will actually remain with them as a formed tax credit for the month they used their purchases. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] So apart from that, Mr. Stoinev, we have proposed a measure, NFSB has proposed measure 60/0. She wasn't accepted. [[Heckling]] Okay, if it's not accepted, here we go, I'm telling you, out of line so we don't get swept away by it by doing what we can for business. [[Heckling]] Maybe you didn't hear me on the right path, so you're making my face.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u123	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. Mr. Tsonev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u124	Madam President, honourable Members! Firstly, how will the parliamentary group vote on the movement for rights and freedoms, because after the meeting of the Committee on Budget and Finance, I read in the media that there has been uncertainty that we have hesitated. To make it clear that we do not hesitate at first reading, we will support our bill and abstain with respect to others. At the second reading, we will support our measure plus the measure for books and restaurants, separately the measure for books and the measure for restaurants. What arguments will I try to introduce you to now. It is obvious that the issue of measures to support certain sectors affected by the COVID-19 crisis has become a debate on the tax system. It grew because the ruling majority decided to use taxes as an instrument to stimulate certain sectors. In our view, this is possible, only that there were better measures in this case and at this time. In any case, in so far as one of the sectors which was really closed suddenly, there is no doubt that it is the most affected by the crisis. As far as the ruling majority is proposing this measure, which I should say again: we of the DPS are not convinced that it is the best, but as it is absent, the other will support it, with many conventions, however. As for the other proposals, they are really justly opening up the issue of the tax system. Colleagues, using VAT as a tool for social policy or as a tool for regulating economic relations is a very complex topic. Firstly, it requires a very good knowledge of the mechanisms of tax action. I address colleagues without reproach to colleagues who do not know this mechanism. [[Heckling]] It is a complex tax, in the world they call it the intelligent tax, because it really has a complex effect. Not always what you want to achieve with VAT is achieved because you do not know the mechanism of action. Secondly, when we want to use the tax system as a tool of social or competitive policy, in any case we must keep an account of the structure of the Bulgarian economy, we must keep an account of the structure of the revenues in the state budget, which is followed by the structure of the Bulgarian economy, we must also keep an account of the fisk itself. Could, as Lefty colleagues suggest, direct taxes be increased and VAT differentiated in favour of certain sectors as an instrument of social policy?! I can answer you: from an economic and fiscal point of view, no. Why? Because direct tax revenues are too low not due to lack of collection and not due to a low rate. Due to the structure of the Bulgarian economy, the income from the corporate tax is 2.6 billion. This against the background of total revenues is too little. I think it's about 5%. I don't claim accuracy. How are you going to compensate for the lack of 2 billion VAT if you propose a measure that goes to nearly 2 billion, with an increase in the rate of DFL for the rich? That'll bring in a maximum of $50 million in revenue, and you'll have to make up for $2 billion. And here we are only talking about social policy to be clear when it comes to the tax system. We want to make the flat tax steep with a rock, we are not talking about fiscal dimensions, we are not talking about economic dimensions, we are only talking about social dimensions. Make it clear that the rich pay more, the poor less. I don't mind if there's clarity. The Fisk won't be filled with it, and it won't make up for the losses of opening up other major holes. I'm doing this analysis because my colleagues before me talked about the tax system and Mr. Kutev talked about the Left offering a long change in the tax system, and Professor Gechev and many other colleagues. Colleagues, let me tell you: the tax system is currently as it was in 2008. In 2008 the major reforms in the tax system ended and the World Bank gave its annual award for the best developed, reformed and structured tax system of Bulgaria. [[Noise, lines, applause]] Do you understand that? With the flat tax, with 10% corporate tax, with the balance between direct and indirect taxes and with everything that hasn't changed substantially since then?! [[Heckling]] And here we have to give what is important to our colleagues from GERB, who manage for 10 years that they did not touch this tax system, although they abused that it is their product. No, it's not their product, it's not their product at all. It is the product of other majorities, in which the Bulgarian Levitsa and DPS participated, and other liberal parties in Bulgaria, and right. [[Heckling]] But let's get back to the point. VAT can be very difficult to change in the amounts we are trying to do now, given the crisis, we are also trying in every budgetary procedure. Look, colleagues, I will give you only one example: all imported goods in Bulgaria are subject to VAT at the entrance. Huge imports have the Bulgarian economy and it will not become smaller in the coming years. You do understand that when we reduce VAT for certain groups of goods imported, we make foreign production competitive?! In fact, I set this example in order to confirm, to illustrate my initial thesis, a complex tax. When we talk about the tax system and this tax, we should look directly at the structure of the Bulgarian economy. It is such that it does not burden direct taxes, alas. Direct taxes are a burden in many developed economies. We have a burden on consumer taxes, and this is VAT, first of all, excise duties as an indirect tax, otherwise we confuse things. I understand that in this room and in this tribune it cannot be politicized, but at least when it comes to such important issues as a fissure, such as the tax system, it is good to speak more and specialists to speak with less politics. For others who are not specialists, it is somehow allowed to introduce more policy on this subject. This is not the time for debate now on the tax system, but it has become so that the proposals opened this debate as well. This confirms our thesis. Yes, colleagues, for 20 years we have protected the tax system in this form. Its main component is the uniform VAT rate. However, we believe that the uniform VAT rate is already anachronism, which does not mean that we need to touch the VAT rate so that it unblocks budget gaps that cannot in any way be filled with direct taxes and by strengthening their social function. A debate about this is necessary. Last year in the summer we told you this was the time of the government of GERB and Minister Goranov. Let's open up a theme for the tax system. In Europe, we cannot be the only country with a flat VAT rate. There are sectors in which we need to think about how to do this without affecting the fissure, and not as a social function, because this in very rare cases leads to a decrease in prices. I'm giving one last example, and that's where I end up. When can VAT be touched, for example, in food? The example of food is very indicative, but it is not necessarily necessary to touch VAT. Last year, we did this kind of analysis, we met with the associations, and we saw what the problem was. For example, in Germany, VAT is 5% of food. If that's where the imported food comes from, and here the recipient is a company not registered under VAT, the VAT is paid in the exporting country, i.e. Germany. This food commodity will come to Bulgaria with 5% VAT against 20 of our producers. [[Replications from the MPs Rumen Gechev and Rumen Georgiev.]] There are, there are unregistered.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u125	Colleagues, take advantage of the lines!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u126	Ask the Ministry of Finance.. will give you a reference about what you ask. I want to give this example to say that there are problems. Sometimes VAT is a tool of competitiveness in intra-Community supply. That's where we can think. In this case, our position is clear. If I spread out on the tax system, it was because I was challenged by the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u127	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. The line, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u128	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Tsonev! It's a very short line. How can we ask them, Mr. Tsonev, with the Ministry of Finance gone, neither the Minister of Finance nor the Deputy Minister of Finance nor the President of the Budget Commission, nor the Prime Minister?! Who should we ask?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u129	The chairman of the Budget Committee is in the hall, Mr. Svilensky. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u130	How do we ask the Treasury Department, when they're afraid to come here and say their opinion, that is, to say what they wrote, to explain it from this tribune? I'm sorry, Mr. Tsonev, but you sent us to ask someone who was afraid to come here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u131	Second line? I can't see. Mr. Tsonev, will there be a duplicate? No. Any other speeches, colleagues? Mrs. Ninova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u132	Dear Bulgarian citizens! [[Laughter at GERB.]] The coronavirus crisis is leading to an economic and social crisis. At such a time of amassing crises, what should be done, what should a government and a government do? In my opinion, to ensure at least four things: stability of the institutions, security of the economy, forecastability, clarity what will happen in the next few months at least, if not years, and to show care for people. Four simple things. What are we looking at today by the government of Boyko Borisov? Stability of institutions is the first thing that should demonstrate a governance. There is nothing more important in the work of a government, of a parliament than the adoption of a budget and tax laws, because they express the overall policy of both economic and social and health, that is, the number one issue of parliamentaryism and of every Council of Ministers. Instead, what do we have today? We heard a GERB member distance himself from the Council of Ministers of GERB and said: "Why should the Council of Ministers come here, they are not importers? Therefore, the Council of Ministers has no meaning, and here some MPs are importing tax laws the most important in the country. There are actors from the MPs' importers, but there is none from the Budget Committee. The Minister of Finance is distinguished from these MPs and says: "If you do this, the end of the budget, the financial policy and we go to tax hikes!The President of the Budget Committee of GERB unprecedentedly for the work of the National Assembly refuses to enter the Budget Committee and to lead the meeting. What is the impression in Bulgarian citizens? Do you think it's about stability? The impression, at least in our country, is that you are all blaming the Prime Minister, who proposed this idea of VAT, and yet in ten minutes you will be voting for. I think that the chaos in your behaviour is very clear from the Bulgarian citizens outside as well, instead of stability, which is number one in a crisis in the country. Secondly, security for the economy. Instead of guaranteeing such security, the prime minister said: "We are introducing new taxes, a change in value added tax, but if it doesn't work, we will remove it. Honourable MPs of the ruling majority, a temporary measure may be wearing a mask, but in a budgetary state tax laws, providing pensions, paying insurance cannot be a temporary measure. The state and the economy need security, long-term, not temporary changes to tax laws and to the budget. Thirdly, forecastability is requested in times of crisis. What do you suggest? [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u133	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u134	The only forecast that the Bulgarian people have heard so far is from the Minister of Finance, who said: "If you accept a 9% VAT rate for certain sectors, it will raise VAT to 24% of others and raise the corporate tax. That's the only prognosis given so far. What normal government and state-owned thinking raises taxes in times of crisis when you have 150,000 new unemployed, when you have hundreds of thousands of companies before bankruptcy, when you have an increase in poverty and inequalities and will raise taxes? That's your prognosis. And lastly, care for the people. I think it's important to show up in a crisis. Dear MPs from the government, you have repeatedly said that a reduction in VAT will not lead to a decrease in prices. There is one commodity where it is guaranteed to reduce prices if VAT is reduced one, of all the products we have offered here.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. This is guaranteed because medicines are on a regulated market with regulated prices. And that is exactly what you reject, and that is exactly what concerns people, and that is for everyone, whether he is a member of GERB, in DPS, in BSP, every Bulgarian uses medicines, and the worst is the situation for pensioners and the poorest because of the low incomes, and they use the most medicines. Here is this measure, which will guaranteed to reduce prices and use all Bulgarians, you are rejecting it now. That's not how you do it! This chaos, uncertainty, instability and lack of perspective, and clarity in times of crisis deepens the problems and does not solve them. You do not offer solutions, you offer deepening of these problems. How do you do that? If everything were right, the stability of the institutions had to be ensured as follows: this is where the Council of Ministers takes the lead with the Prime Minister, with the majority, with the Minister of Finance, with the President of the Budget Committee, imports the policy offered to the Bulgarian people, and this policy is dressed in a clear plan for exiting the crisis. Not in a piece, not now I will remove VAT, but tomorrow I will raise it, not help this sector, I will not help another In this plan to contain at least a few things. To be clear: the analysis of the state's financial situation, is it a surplus, is it a budget, in what state is the financial situation of the country? To define four, five sectors that are most important for the economy, on which state support measures are focused and where there are the most employed people. To say: the crisis has shown that it is a necessary reform of health care. If it is us, we will say: a health reform in which hospitals are not commercial companies. If you say otherwise, your ideology for health reform, but this plan to contain the crisis has shown that health is not working, we are importing a new model of health care. Thirdly, go out and say: the crisis has shown that we need tax reform, that the poorest in the world and in Bulgaria can not pay constantly for the consequences of the crisis, and the richest do not feel these consequences, even on the contrary, to be richer. And you say: here is tax reform, but clear and signed. Fourth, you are proposing a new economic model in which you have finally realized that the state has a role in the economy. Whether it will be a state oil company, whether it will be a state enterprise for the purchase of agricultural produce, whether a state pharmacies, but you go out and say: this is what we say should be done. Fifth, attracting investment. Dear Members of the National Assembly, there is a new redistribution of investment in the world. The crisis has shown that long supply chains can be a risk for economies to develop. At the moment, both Europe and the United States of America are withdrawing investments or some of their investments from Asia and moving them close to shortening the supply chain. Bulgaria is the ideal object of such investments because we have conditions. Where's your investment plan? Here the government and the Prime Minister must stand with such a comprehensive view of things. Sixth, we're saving the municipalities. You know some of them are on edge, where's your plan for municipalities? [[The President gives a sign that the time has expired.]] Yes, I'm done, Madam President. Seventh, all this, honourable rulers, in the democratic rule of law, the parliamentary republic is dressed in the form called the update of the Budget Act, so we would do. Where is your update of the Budget Act? If the reduction in VAT will reduce the revenue in the budget, where is your update on how you will compensate them, where will you reduce the costs of pensions, from salaries, from what? Where is your plan for development of Bulgaria and the Budget Update Act?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u135	Time, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u136	You guarantee instability, uncertainty, lack of clarity about the future. The alternative is a clear plan for Bulgaria to exit the crisis and the Bulgarian Socialist Party and Coalition BSP for Bulgaria. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u137	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Bikov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u138	Madam President, honourable Members! It is clear that we have spoken in different languages since the beginning of this Parliament, this is hardly any discovery, but today it has become clear that you yourself speak in different languages within your parliamentary group. What happened today? First, Mr. Gechev came out and presented your proposal, which is almost the same as ours, but the difference is that you are expanding the scope of the sectors that you think should be supported by bringing to the injured restaurant business and pharmaceutical sector and the food sector. Then Mr. Stoynev came out and said: "What are you doing? Why are you changing the tax system in the middle of the year? What's with the tax evasion? He had obviously forgotten that a few minutes before him Mr. Gechev defended a position in which he called us to support the BSP proposal. On the road every half hour Mr. Popov and Mr. Svilenski come out to tell us that the time is 10.30; 11.30; 11.30 to call for the Prime Minister, the Minister and so on. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] However, what are we talking about, and it is good to clarify today's debate about what it is about. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u139	Take advantage of the line, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u140	What's today's debate? Today's debate is about the following: it is about anti-crisis measures related to compensation and support for a particular sector and business, which hardly has anyone in this room who will say that there is more harmed than him. When we announced the state of emergency on March 13, these people were forced to close immediately. They filled their restaurants with certain goods, this product was a marriage after that. I don't think there's anyone who can say that this sector wasn't damaged. In this sector more than 75 thousand people work in related businesses probably work hundreds of thousands more because these restaurants shop from shops, have distributors and so on and so forth. Our goal at the moment is not to cause a debate on the tax system as a whole, to review the structure of the tax system. Our goal is to try to save as many businesses in this sector as possible, because if they fail, the people who work in them will go to the social system. You continue and from the beginning you are consistent in this regard. I agree with you that you are consistent. You continue to believe that tax policy is a social policy. There are enough social sectors in which you can offer reforms. We can help people in some way who are in need, including medicines. It is not true that there are all guarantees that medicines will fall if VAT falls. Over 2,000 drugs are covered by the Health Insurance Fund. We can increase, for example, the number of these medicines or make some social measure for those who cannot afford medicines to help them. But why should we help the pharmaceutical business? He didn't lose in this crisis. Nothing lost in this crisis pharmaceutical business. There's talk of long-term solutions here. I'm against making long-term decisions right now, and I'm saying it completely frankly. We find ourselves in a crisis, something that BSP colleagues can't understand for three months now. We were gathering and during the state of emergency, having debates on a variety of topics, and all the time we were seeing an absolutely unconscious of the complexity of this situation and of being in crisis. The crisis is not stability, as Mrs Ninova says, that there must be stability in the crisis. It must have stability in principle, not only in the crisis. The problem with the crisis, however, is that it is destroying stability. And this crisis is not up to us. It has to be managed. She needs to be overcome. There must be a response to certain challenges that this crisis poses. But we now decide for the next 10 years what we will do, as long as we do not know what will happen in the world after three months, not in Bulgaria, in the world, and apply your strategy and vision!? I think we'll crash, we'll lose control of the crisis if we do all this. It's like applying a vision for Bulgaria now. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Why didn't you suggest that we apply a vision to Bulgaria?It was a strategic document that didn't take into account in any way that there would be a coronavirus that didn't take into account in any way that there would be a global economic crisis? There it was proposed that this sector be given two million, the other four, to the third five. This was a vision for Bulgaria. [[GERB's reply: "Millionaires. "]] A billion. Sorry, billion! That's it. Only now it turns out that there's no income. And if we had listened to you during the adoption of this budget, for the first quarter, we probably wouldn't have a surplus to help us cope with the challenges. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Fathered a few days ago. Now I don't know, start educating you. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We wouldn't have had the chance. We'd have spent the money. We would've probably gotten into loans before there was a crisis at all, and we wouldn't be able to get any buffers right now, including borrowing, including the reserve we've formed. My conclusion is that in times of crisis your party should not be listened to. You have to do the opposite. [[Reply from Stanislav Ivanov: "Not only in times of crisis! "]] You can cause crises, but you can't deal with them. [[Applause from GERB.]] This is a fundamental problem with you. To advise us on how to get out of a very complicated situation I accept, but I do not accept that we follow you. Because your vision, your long-term planning, which you demonstrate from this tribune today, shows that you are not adequate to the situation. It shows that you not only cannot get the country out of the crisis, you cannot at all define what a crisis means and you cannot in any way... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u141	Please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u142	...think about the movement and the direction in which you should go, and very carefully, day by day. Day by day, not five by five. Lowering prices is an impossible task. In 1954, at your VI Congress, your party decided to increase people's standard of living by lowering the prices of a number of agricultural products to cheapen food. And you know what happens? The biggest wave of migration from the village to the city is triggered because thousands of Bulgarian agricultural workers are left without income. Because when you drop food prices for the city, you don't pay those who make food. That's how you take down prices. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] By the way, this policy was later denied by Comrade Todor Zhivkov, not me. [[Laughter and excitement.]] And it makes sense, that's what happens. Therefore, I would call on us to support our measures, which I repeat, are crisis, not fundamental, not long-term, but crisis, and then, if we have a debate on the tax system, let us have it at another time and elsewhere. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u143	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u144	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Bikov, I allow myself to make this line for you because I do not agree with one part of your speech. It is precisely that colleagues have failed in their speeches to formulate what a crisis is. I think they can very well formulate what a crisis is, fellow Members. Because a crisis is when pensions are $3, a crisis is when wages are $5, a crisis is when there is no gas [[strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] , crisis is when there is no bread, crisis is when there are no children's foods in stores. Therefore, colleagues under their rule, I think, know very well what a crisis is. [[Noise and lines.]] Another thing you have neglected to say in your speech, Mr. Bikov, to which I pay particular attention to you, is to say why the left party in its proposal forms a support for the big business, as you suggested, only the pharmaceutical business is reducing the VAT rate for their sector and did not say whether they would support this measure, which is aimed at supporting workers in the restaurant and hotel business, where there are 75 thousand Bulgarian citizens working there and with their families going to 150 000 Bulgarian citizens, where this anti-crisis temporary measure, as you have pointed out, has been mentioned?! Will they support him? You didn't ask this question, which to me is fundamental to today's debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u145	Thank you. Second line? I can't see. Mr. Bikoff, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u146	That's a very short answer. Colleagues support big business and fight to reduce taxes. Such a left-wing party in Europe and I don't know the world. [[Voices: "Bravo!" and applause by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u147	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. Personal explanation of Mr. Gechev and Mr. Svilenski, and in the manner of holding Mr. Pawnov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u148	Madam President, thank you for giving me the opportunity to explain personally...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u149	Of course, Mr. Gechev. RUMEN GECHEV:...for the fact that my colleague Bikov manipulated my speech. First of all, Mr. Bikov, it is not at all about the fact that the proposal of the BSP for Bulgaria, which I explained, sews to your proposal for restaurant medicine. This is not true because we have a completely different approach, Mr. Bikov. Our approach is systemic, like Europe. Secondly, you misinterpret my statement about the drugs. And I'll tell you about the big business, listen carefully! Mr. Bikov claims that with the VAT reduction in medicines, we support the big business. Ladies and gentlemen, VAT is paid by the buyer, nothing to do with the big business. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] People who buy drugs will pay less. Do you know what colleagues from GERB say? That when the antibiotic becomes cheaper, they say the big business will sell more, as Uncle Ivan instead of every six hours will start drinking every hour antibiotic. That's your big business logic. [[Laughter and applause from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] Have a nice day. [[Laughter and applause from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u150	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. You, too. Personal explanation for Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u151	Thank you, Madam President, for giving me the opportunity for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u152	Always a pleasure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u153	Dear Mr. Bikov, I take the procedure for personal explanation as personally affected because I was one of those who travelled around Bulgaria to tell about Bulgaria [[GERB noise and lines]] , to write along with people.. Vision for Bulgaria............................................. This "Vision for Bulgaria" which you have criticised. This vision about Bulgaria, about which you said how nothing is working out of it, and the same vision about Bulgaria, which you started performing exactly in a crisis situation, you made a state lottery, you made a state company for motorways, now you are making a state company for oil products, you made a state owned company. You're fulfilling our vision. [[Voices: "Bravo!" and applause from the BSP for Bulgaria. Laughter and excitement.]] We will support you, but there are other things in this vision that you need to read, make sense of. And when I come out of this tribune, Mr. Bikov, I don't come out to tell you what time it is. He's got a big watch he wants to see. I came out to tell you that at this important moment for Bulgaria there is no Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, Deputy Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u154	You invited them, Mr. Svilensky. You already said that, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u155	Yeah, but apparently Mr. Bikov didn't get it. And Mrs. Stoyanova is probably back or not. Now that the vote is coming, Mrs. Stoyanova is not in the Chamber again. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u156	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. The way you're holding Mr. Pawnov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u157	Madam President, my note is to you. You in this Parliament are first among the equals.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u158	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u159	I believe that you should also follow the laws and orders of the Minister of Health. I'm sure you've read his last one was that it's forbidden to perform in closed rooms. [[Laughter and excitement.]] And here two artists, my good colleagues, Churchill and the doctor, are performing sketches and theater performances, and you just don't stop them. [[Laughter and excitement.]] Do not violate the orders of the Minister of Health! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u160	Thank you, Mr. Pawnov. And don't violate the Minister's orders and wear masks, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u161	Well, if you're breaking up, why shouldn't I?!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u162	Please! [[Noise and lines.]] This is Parliament, and everyone has the right to speak. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. First, I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, No 054 01-39, submitted by Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. Vote 184 MPs: 22, none, abstention 162. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the second Bill amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, No 054 01-40, submitted by Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs. Vote 180 MPs: 19 against 5, abstention 156. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax, No 054 01-42, submitted by Boriana Georgieva and Polina Tsankova. Vote 179 MPs: for 6, against 2, abstention 171. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote a bill amending the Value Added Tax Act, No 054-01-43, tabled by Krasimir Tzipov and a group of MPs. Vote 181 MPs: 108, against 1, abstention 72. The motion is accepted. Mr. Nikolov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u163	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, on the basis of the Rules of the National Assembly, I propose that the deadline for the Law on Underground Treasures be increased to two weeks. I also propose a re-voting procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u164	Mr. Nikolov, we will vote on the other two bills and then we will vote on your procedural proposal to extend the deadline. We are revising a bill amending the Value Added Tax Act, No 054-01-43, submitted by Krasimir Tzipov. Vote 176 MPs: 107 against 1, abstention 68. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the Value Added Tax Act, No 054-01-44, submitted by Valeri Simeonov. Vote 180 MPs: 19 against 2, abstention 159. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u165	It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u166	A re-voting procedure has been requested by the BSP parliamentary group. Vote 181 MPs: 19 against 2, abstention 160. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for a bill to supplement the Value Added Tax Act, No 054-01-45, tabled by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. They voted 185 MPs: 66, against 32, abstention 87. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u167	It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u168	We have a re-vote procedure. We are revising Mrs Cornelia Ninova's Bill and a group of MPs. Vote 181 MPs: 66, against 46, abstention 69. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on Mr. Nikolov's procedure for extending the term of the Underground Capitals Act to the term of two weeks. They voted 145 MPs: for 145, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, I would like to inform you that there is an hour and a half left in which we will be able to answer all the questions in this parliamentary control, as it is as much as a duration. Moving on to: PARLIAMENT CONTROL New questions concerning the period from 15 May 2020 to 21 May 2020: - by the MP Georgi Yordanov Yordanov and a group of MPs at Kiril Ananiev, Minister of Health, on a strategy for improving the working conditions and financial compensation for the Bulgarian medics. Answers should be made in the plenary sitting on 5 June 2020. Written answers from: - Minister of Culture Boel Banov on a question from the National Representative Velislava Krasteva; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Boryana Georgieva; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a question from the National Representative Elena Pesheva; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on two questions from the National Representative Elena Pesheva; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Elena Pesheva; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva on a question from the MPs Chavdar Velinov, Georgi Gokov and Vasil Antonov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a question from the National Representative Ivo Hristov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a question from the National Representative Anna Slavova; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a question from the National Representative Hristo Prodanov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva on two issues from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov. Declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group.......................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u169	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, ladies ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Perhaps none of us have imagined that this declaration of the brightest holiday in our calendar may 24th will be in a time of pandemic, in which knowledge, spirituality, the celebration of enlightenment, of science, of man will be of such great importance. We used to talk about consumer society. Yeah, and we're still sticking to the everyday topics of debate. We are still arguing about the challenges that are transitional, not strategic for the future. At any other time, honourable Members, which is on the eve of May 24th, I would ask you to share the emotions of the celebration of the case of the holy brothers Cyril and Methodius and to remind of the specific political strategy of GERB party for the development of our national priority "Education of Bulgarian children and support for science and cultural community." Today we ask your time to appreciate together the immense importance of enlightenment, the Bulgarian mind and the Bulgarian spirit for our nation, for our futures, for what we are. Because the pandemic allows us to clearly, without pretending, to say that we have the right to be proud as a people! Because our enlighteners and teachers are the ones who were and are on the front line in the days when the salvation of human life is an absolute priority for everyone. These are the people we often talk about being away from our children's time and gathering some discontent. They showed honourable colleagues that the teacher is not dependent on the textbook; they showed that it is not dependent on technology, it is not dependent on classrooms. It is the Master who knows how to open the door of knowledge, as it was opened by the holy brothers Cyril and Methodius to the whole Slavic world. He is the man who has the professional responsibility and the professional obligation that we have as a society to share the path to knowledge and spirituality. He's not the guy who sings the lesson and gives the homework, he's not the guy who fills out the diary who writes notes that requires, organizes, experiences, teaches. Master is the man who is tasked with the mission to show knowledge. To this man the Bulgarian says with adoration: "Teacher. " For him are our efforts, for him is also our political responsibility. For this in the priority education GERB asked, promised and fulfilled its commitment to invest, develop and support teachers because they invest, develop and support the new generations. And that's a fact! Dear colleagues, I am a teacher and I know very well that the door of knowledge does not open with magic. This is done, first and foremost, with love for the profession and second, with an absolute consistent policy for the development and quality of the entire education system. Every small or larger step that has been taken in this direction, every project, discussion, decision, law, is part of this modern education policy, based on our healthy traditions, which gives a personal perspective for the development of each person and in whose center are the new generations and their teachers. Therefore, on the eve of May 24 we should not only thank our teachers, but also have the clear analysis that investment in education is the ones that do not draw any distant future, but have determined and determined our day today. The time we're in now has shown that not petty matters. It is not that we do not know it, but the truth is that we often allow them to prevail in our day and in our political everyday life, and the development of mind and spirit is important. So today's 24 May is not just worshipping the people of science and culture, it's a celebration where we thank for what they give us. The applause for them is no different than those honourable colleagues, for doctors who are fighting for the lives of every man. The applause for our teachers is our recognition that their work and talent are the ones who will leave our nation on the world map of enlightenment, development and values not only today but in the centuries ahead. This 24 May is not like the others. It is our past in which knowledge has determined how we will evolve as a people; it is our present, in which we seek and determine the directions of enlightenment, spirit, development; it is our future, in which we know that we will be a bright future. This 24 May is the real holiday of the spirit and knowledge of Bulgaria. We, fellow Members, all bear this spirit, and therefore let us remember: Nationality doesn't fall where you know how to live! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u170	Thank you, dear Mrs. Zaharieva. Declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group. Ms. Nencheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u171	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Bulgarian enlighteners, cultural figures, guardians of verbality! May 24th is a celebration of speech, a celebration of praise of writing, of Bulgarian education and culture. The festival has always been a basis for pride that we have given something to the world and to all word books to read; It all starts in those distant times of the first Bulgarian kingdom. Bulgaria is already an established and authoritative state. This is due to wise and far-sighted rulers. They know how and where they lead their people, because they possess the power of speech and knowledge as well as the power of the sword. They know that the people must be united in their religion and strong in the wisdom of knowledge. They trust, rely and support teachers and enlighteners with the power of all government power. The Golden Age was not late for Bulgaria, then led by a Bulgarian king who received education at the Magnaur School, an educated leader and spiritual leader of his people. A monastery is built after a monastery, books are written, people become enlightened, territories are expanded, Bulgarians declare and defend their presence as a strong people in a strong state. These are the years of God's grace for Bulgaria. Then there's dark, dark times. But in a monastery cell always shines the flame of the candle, glowing the letters stringed like a rosary from the fingers of a holy monk who directly keeps his word Bulgarian, rewrites it and gives it to the enslaved, the ignorant, to the sank in the darkness of obedience to foreign power. From these brave words with the wholehearted care of the revival teacher in the cell schools is born and the disobedience of.. Stand up, stand up, young Balkan, from a sleep deep awakened to pass through the fire of uprisings and wars. Teachers educate and educate, build faith in the new Bulgarian statehood. And all this is because the Bulgarians have a written letter and a reading created by our first-teachers. In the 9th century, the brothers Cyril and Methodius placed their lives and deeds on the altar of knowledge and new writing, erected the word of a pedestal, cast a divine sacrament in every single letter sign, so as to carry power and message to this day. The first - teacher's work determines the path that our people are walking. The creation of the letters is a successful and lasting work because there is continuity between the holy brothers Cyril and Methodius and their students, who, coming to Bulgaria, create their book schools and become inspirers and teachers for the Bulgarian people. Thanks to all of this today, we write not only Bulgarians, but also Serbs, Montenegrins, Russians, Ukrainians, Belarusians, Mongolians, and over 200 million people in total. Today 24 May is celebrated in many countries. A great recognition of the apostolic and cultural activities of the holy brothers Cyril and Methodius is their proclamation by Pope John Paul II of Europe. They play the role of a spiritual bridge, contribute to Europe's civil and cultural unity to this day. This 2020 is marked by the severe consequences of a treacherous virus for the people of our country and around the world. But just for the sake of the millennial history of Bulgaria, we cannot afford the speech, education and culture to tolerate the scars and lesions of the viruses of ignorance and illiteracy. At this difficult time, the Bulgarian teacher's host again proved his dedication and showed tremendous efforts to prove the meaning of the existence of education and knowledge. The teachers and directors in the Bulgarian schools did not wait for provisions and instructions from the Ministry, mobilized their forces and in just 48 hours brought the system of education into readiness for e-learning of children, students and students in an emergency situation without whining without complaining. The command came from their hearts and minds, subordinate to that thousand - year - old tradition of educators being among their people, guiding and guiding them. No clapping. What will be the analyses and conclusions we will find out. We are facing questions: do state institutions have adequate support for education; is there an adequate state strategy for education and culture in Bulgaria? And more difficult questions, and the answers are waiting and important for all of us: Is the access of every Bulgarian child equal to education; are the teachers secured with everything needed for full work; have millions of levs been spent effectively for the qualification of the teachers; will there be an objective analysis of the missed educational content and knowledge of the students during the emergency situation; how will the gaps be compensated; what is the readiness for the start of the new 2020 school year 2021? Education in an electronic environment proved once again the clear need for direct communication between a teacher and a student, proved the need for social communication and social habits and skills to deal with the challenges of life. The computer can and should be only to help man, but not master of his way of life. Thank you, teachers, for believing in the rightness and power of the enlightenment work! The last few months e-learning has become a stress test for parents and students. Where parents, students and teachers have the opportunity to work together, the training process is successful. This confirms the understanding that parents are an integral part of the process of education and an important factor in the child's upbringing and proper development. Thank you for your hard work, parents! At this point the teachers and students in Bulgarian schools abroad were left without support and care. In schools abroad hard work our compatriots and enlighten Bulgarian children born of Bulgarians but in a foreign country. The fact is that it is increasingly difficult to maintain their self-consciousness and belonging to the Bulgarian process and this process needs support. Thank you for the preservation of Bulgarianity beyond the borders of the country! Today, the creators of the word, the cultural activists, the bearers of the nation's spiritual charge, unfortunately, did not receive support from the state. At the same time, many of them devoted themselves to giving away their talents free of charge, turning their homes into a stage and through various social platforms presented art. They didn't allow art to disappear and to denigrate its role in the time of social and physical isolation. Thank you for your dedication, cultural figures! The weather is difficult, but in no less difficult time the teachers and creators of the Bulgarian word also lived. Unfortunately, the Tower of Babylon collapsed and we stopped to understand what our neighbor was saying. We know well the language of division and hatred, but this is not the language of the Bulgarians. We have reason and many reasons to speak in the language of unity, putting aside and ignoring our political and personal ego in the name of the future of our people. We can deal with the extraordinary difficulties, but only if we are united in the desire and will each of us to submit our work to the interest of the people of Bulgaria. We are owed to the generations that will be born after us on this earth, because the Bulgarians have our due recognition in our contribution to world culture. Many things have passed, Ancient Rome and Ancient Greece, Byzantium, but Bulgaria is here a piece of the most ancient culture among all European countries. So keep her safe! To be the Bulgarian culture not only a piece of the old age, but also the first part of the future. The spiritual wealth of Bulgaria, created for centuries, must last. This is the historical purpose of Bulgaria and I believe in it. We have to believe in ourselves! Happy holiday, Bulgarian educators, cultural figures, guardians of the speech! Happy holiday, Bulgarians! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u172	We're continuing with parliamentary control. Mrs. Mariana Nikolova, Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy, will answer a question from the National Representative Dimitar Danchev on measure 60/40 to keep the employment of the employees in the state of emergency, announced by decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020. Procedure. Here you are, for procedure, Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u173	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. President, I appeal to you because you represent the National Assembly, the High Authority in the Parliamentary Republic, and I believe that you should defend parliamentary democracy and the rules of this National Assembly. My question, which I am about to ask Mrs. Nikolova, which you have just announced, was actually initially addressed to Mr. Tomislav Donchev, because he was precisely the person who in the last two months presented the measure 60/40, on all possible media, television, radio, newspapers and others. I remember very well, I suppose, and you remember that press conference, the debt, on a Sunday day, when it was he, along with the Prime Minister, who presented this measure. Therefore, my question is here and to you, which I ask you to address to him, is: is he afraid of the questions of the MPs, or is he not convinced of what he is speaking in the media, so he refuses to answer this question under measure 60/40 and refers it to Mrs Nikolova, to whom I am, of course, grateful for the courage and respect for the parliamentary republic, to come today to answer it? After all, the point of parliamentary control is precisely to present an up-to-date issue, to hear the related problems and, if any, to identify and discuss them here. Therefore, I ask you again, Mr. Chairman, note to Mr. Donchev that the rules of parliamentary democracy require him to appear here to answer the current issues related to the government's actions. There's nothing to be afraid of, the opposition won't bite and Mr. Donchev can only learn something sensible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u174	Thank you, Mr. Danchev. I assure you that Deputy Prime Minister Donchev is not afraid of questions, he is always happy to participate, is always collaborative, is always willing to accept and discuss the opinion and opinion of other countries. I don't think you have any reason to blame him for that. As for who will answer, I think that indeed Deputy Prime Minister Nikolova is the person who has to answer this question. And now I give you the floor to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Madam Vice Prime Minister! Due to the extremely high public interest in the implementation and effect of measure 60/40 introduced to preserve the employment of employees in the emergency situation announced by the National Assembly decision of 13 March, please answer the following questions: First, is there an analysis of the use and application of the measure 60/40? For example, how many companies have benefited from the support provided, what economic sectors are they and what is the number of employees who received compensation for March and April 2020? What is the number of state and municipal employees and workers receiving compensation under this measure? What is the total number of applications submitted and what is the number of refusals made to pay compensation to employers under that measure? Secondly, who and on what grounds, please explain, signed the rules for requesting and processing applications for compensation to employers under that measure? How is the necessary official check performed for compliance with the criteria for payment of compensation and is the automatic data exchange between the register of the National Revenue Agency, the National Insurance Institute and the National Statistical Institute used for this purpose? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u176	Thank you, Mr. Danchev. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u177	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Danchev! On the occasion of your question of measure 60/40 for the maintenance of the employment of employees in the emergency situation announced by the National Assembly Decision of 13 March 2020, I reply to you the following: As of 11 May 2020, the total number of applications for compensation received was 11 150. Applications for compensation have been submitted by 9035 employers for 171 548 workers and employees. 454 applications have been refused by employers who have been cancelled due to their re-submission in more than one Department of Labour because of technical errors. 1661 applications have been re-applied by employers following the removal of technical or administrative errors or following an extension of the initial period of compensation. 729 applications have not been approved due to intolerance, 2011 applications have not been approved due to technical and administrative errors and some have already submitted corrected applications. 2161 applications received during the previous seven working days are in a period of verification and evaluation by the committees in the................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 4134 employers, part of whom apply with two applications for a total of 55 608 workers and employees, are approved by the committees at the employment offices and submitted to the National Insurance Institute for payment of compensation for March. 3893 employers for a total of 47,912 employees were paid compensations from the National Insurance Institute for NSI data submitted on 12 May 2020. The National Insurance Institute was returned for correction by employers in total 61 lists due to errors or duplicated data, or technical problems for their verification. The most approved employers in the sector are the "Hoteling and Restauranting" sector, around 36.6%, followed by those in the sector "Commerce" sector, "Remount of cars and motorbikes" and "Repair of cars and motorbikes" around 19%, the "Collection industry" sector. According to the NSI, compensation paid on 12 May 2020 amounted to 14 million. Five hundred thousand. BGN 677, of which 12 million 144,000. £406. remuneration compensation, 2 million 356 thousand. £271. for insurance contributions. On average, compensations for wages were paid to one person in the amount of 253 BGN. and 47 pennies in total average with insurance contributions included 302 BGN. And 65 pennies. In accordance with art. 3, para. 1 of PMS No 55/2020 The Executive Director of the Employment Agency shall issue an order for the opening of a procedure for applying employers for compensation and information on the terms and conditions of application shall be published on the website of the Employment Agency. The Executive Director of the Employment Agency shall establish the model of the declarations according to art. 6 and the implementation of the activities and the exchange of information between the Employment Agency and the National Insurance Institute shall be carried out under conditions and in order that have been determined by the Manager of the NSI and the Executive Director of the Employment Agency pursuant to art. 10. The PMS No 55/2020 regulates both the requirements and the conditions for applying and the terms and time limits for assessing the eligibility and payment of compensation by the National Insurance Institute, including the commitments of other institutions in this process. They are all included and specified in the established procedures of the Employment Agency and the National Insurance Institute for the Implementation of PMS No 55/2020. In relation to the assessment of eligibility and compliance with the criteria for payment of compensation, the public registers shall be used. The Commercial Register, the BULSTAT Register, registers and references from the system of inter-registered exchange RegiX, to which the Employment Agency has access, as well as data from the information systems of the National Revenue Agency and the Executive Agency. 5, para. 2 of PMS No 55/2020. Data shall be obtained by official means and by each municipal administration on the occasion of the establishment of existence or absence of obligations to them, as well as from the information system of the Employment Agency, in relation to art. 1, para. 6, p. 3 of PMS No 55/2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u178	Thank you, Mrs. Nikolova. Line, Mr. Danchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u179	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Nikolova! I listened carefully to your answer, and I will comment on it this way. Firstly, from the point of view of the number of jobs reserved and the supported employees, respectively, enterprises. You quoted a figure for aided employees of about 172,000, let's say, souls and a sum of compensation paid for them of about 14 million. If we divide one number by the other, we will see, we can easily assume that this means 81 leva received aid on average for one person. It is also not a coincidence in this regard that what has already been heard many times, and today even in this House, that this measure is assessed in this sense as extremely ineffective by the majority of employers and practically, as the data you have exported, is not of great interest to the majority of companies in Bulgaria. Now let's get back to the rules. The rules call on companies to submit applications through the secure electronic service system. Registration in this system is highly controversial and unthinkable in terms of legal logic, and is a prerequisite for administrative disputes. In order to register in the system a company shall fill in a form filling out once data for a legal entity and a second time data for a commercial company. I'm asking if they're different faces, or if someone who cooked the form just doesn't know what it's about? Even more interesting is the issue of evaluation of applications. You've quoted a bunch of registers that are used to check the data by official means. However, the truth, and I will show it here, is that the answers that our employers receive from the Employment Agency, are quoting an inspection carried out in the Ciela. I don't know how to use those records that you quoted. It is assumed that the verification in any company in which economic sector works, in which economic sector its employees and workers are provided, should be carried out in the registers which you listed as well of the National Statistical Institute, the NSI and the NRA. But it turns out it's being done in the Ciela system. I ask who guarantees the reliability of the data in a private company system, and why has society paid us billions in recent years for systems and registers of public administration that are not being used? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Mr. Chairman. I also have the question whether there was actually a prior list of companies that had to be approved for support? Because it gives the impression that companies who have received a refusal to support are not given any opportunity to explain and to clear random technical errors made when submitting the application. In other words, the appeal of a refusal to support received is virtually impossible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u180	Thank you, dear Mr. Danchev. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u181	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Danchev! On the occasion of your statement, once again, I would like to confirm that, in relation to the assessment of eligibility and compliance with the criteria for payment of compensation, only public registers, which are the Commercial Register, the BULSTAT Register, registers and references from the RegiX system to which the Employment Agency has access, as well as data from the NRA Information Systems and the Labour Executive Agency. In addition to the data I have provided to you, I would also like to inform you as Chairman of the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation that a special online meeting was held yesterday. It discussed a new draft decree by the Council of Ministers, changing the previous Decree No 55 of the Council of Ministers, known as the measure 60/40, which is that the period for adoption of financial support documents is extended until 30 June 2020. During the discussion of the Draft Decree, as well as sectoral measures to address the effects of the crisis, new proposals were made by the social partners to extend the scope of the measure both from the point of view of economic activities and changes in the share of the State's financial contribution. During the meeting, the Minister of Labour and Social Policy said that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy is currently analyzing all the proposals received and is working towards decision making and judgment in the light of these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u182	Thank you, dear Mrs. Nikolova. Here you go, Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u183	Mr. Chairman, I would like to ask you to hand this document over to Mrs. Nikolova. It has just confirmed that the official checks are being carried out by the Agency for Employment in the State Registers designated for this purpose, but I have an official reply, which I ask you to give to it, from where it becomes clear that what I have just submitted as data that the checks are being carried out in the private system of the company Ciela is a fact. Thank you. [[The National Representative shall provide the information.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u184	Thank you, Mr. Danchev this was a little outside the procedural rules, but I will pass this text on to Mrs. Nikolova, and thank you. We thank the Deputy Prime Minister for participating in today's parliamentary control. We are waiting for the disinfection, then we will continue with the Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Affairs Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva. Now first, let me inform you that the procedure is a more specific answer to two questions. The first one is from the MP Ivo Hristov on a joint Declaration on the occasion of 75 years since the end of World War II of the foreign ministers of Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Romania, Slovakia and the United States. Here you are, Mr. Hristov, to develop your question within 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u185	Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mrs. Foreign Minister! On 7 May 2020, your office published the text of the Declaration on the occasion of 75 years since the end of World War II, signed by the foreign ministers of the listed countries. Such a disgraceful act is rare even in Bulgarian diplomacy. That is why I ask you: what exactly is the Bulgarian interest to sign this declaration? Are you aware that, if it had not been for the strong position of the Soviet Union at the Paris Peace Conference, the border between Bulgaria and Greece would have passed 30 kilometers south of Plovdiv, i.e. in the Bachkovo region? [[GERB lines.]] Mr. Vice-President, would you please put the place in order? [[Relations, excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u186	Please, colleagues, let's respect our colleagues asking questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u187	Are you aware that if it wasn't for the Soviet Union, Pirin Macedonia would be within Yugoslavia? Are you aware that, if it was not for the Soviet Union, the amount of reparations that Bulgaria had to pay by joining the Trilateral Pact would have cost us economically, causing a third national disaster? Are you aware that, if it wasn't for the Soviet Union, the plans of the so-called allies predicted the elimination of Bulgaria as a country causing problems for its Balkan neighbours? I'm quoting! As foreign minister, do you have any idea and historical educational background on what document you are signing? If yes, why did you sign it? If not, why did you sign it?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u188	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Now I give the floor to the issue to be developed by the MPs Aleksandar Paunov and Georgi Gokov on the signing by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria of a joint Declaration on the occasion of 75 years since the end of World War II. Here you are, Mr. Pawnov. You have two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u189	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Madam Deputy Prime Minister, US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and the foreign ministers of Bulgaria, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Romania, Slovakia, Hungary and the Czech Republic signed a joint Declaration on the occasion of 75 years since the end of World War II. We MPs in Parliamentary Republic of Bulgaria have learned about this from the media. Each declaration on an important historical occasion requires a single opinion based on historical truth. Unfortunately, the content of your signed declaration is controversial from the point of view of diplomacy, at least because it makes accusations to the Soviet Union without factual arguments. It also contains controversial historical facts that lead to incorrect interpretations. This declaration, on the day of the unconditional surrender of Nazi Germany, does nothing to contribute to the establishment of historical facts both to the events during World War II and to its final results. At the same time, the Declaration minimizes the millions of victims given by the Soviet Union, thanks to which an end was put to the most manly regime in the history of the world. On the other hand, accusations are made that only the Soviet Union is responsible for the post-war political and territorial structure of Europe. In relation to the above, our question to you is as follows: Since the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria has not discussed and adopted a decision to join and sign this declaration, by what right have you decided to sign this document and by whom have you been authorised? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u190	Thank you, dear Mr. Pawnov. Mrs. Zaharieva, now you have the floor for a response and according to procedure your response time is double, 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u191	Dear Mr. Vice-President, Dear Professor Hristov, Mr. Gokov, Mr. Pawnov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! I am really surprised that for more than 30 years it has continued to be called into question, and that is by the way you define yourself, the largest political party in opposition, the assessment and the historical truth of the totalitarian regime. And this is 30 years after its fall, 16 years after Bulgaria's accession to NATO and 13 years after its accession... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mr. Chairman, as you remarked, when they spoke, I will also ask the ministers to respect each other.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u192	Please, colleagues, give Mrs. Zaharieva a chance to say what she has to say, and then there's time for lines. Continue, Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u193	In this way you question virtually all efforts and achievements on the path of Bulgaria's transition to democracy, to a society based on the rule of law, political pluralism and respect for human rights and freedoms. Since you obviously believe that you know World War II history and subsequent events in Europe better than the ministers who signed the Declaration and accuse us of nonexistent or false ones, I would recommend you read this declaration because there is no mention of the Soviet Union. You must have seen something. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The Declaration expresses positions focused on the postwar actions of World War II. I would like to make it clear that the Declaration with which we came together with the eight colleagues from the countries of the European Union, NATO, and the United States expressed appreciation for this is not true that it does not express, to those who have sacrificed our lives in the fight against national socialism, by sharing our belief that victory over Nazism is the result of the efforts of millions of people, of the will and determination of the anti-hitlerist coalition, to which, at the end of World War II, our country joined. And indeed the former Soviet Union and the Red Army have sacrificed the most in this bloody clash. At the same time, however, it cannot be denied that after the end of World War II, the peoples of Central and Eastern Europe paid their very high price for winning some of them with a loss of their sovereignty, with repression and violation of fundamental human rights and freedoms, with delayed and distorted economic development and so on and so forth. I'll explain what a declaration is! A political document, in the case of the foreign ministers, expressing a political position in the field of foreign policy. This is not an international treaty with which an obligation is taken to pass through parliament. Moreover, when such political positions have a solid legislative basis and an international political basis. I will recall the law adopted by the National Assembly 20 years ago, which is still in force, gentlemen of the National Assembly, for the declaration of the communist regime in Bulgaria as a criminal, which, as I said already said, is in force. In his art. 1 The role and responsibility of the former Soviet Union and the unconstitutional coming to power of the BCP and the establishment of totalitarian government in our country are clearly indicated. The disastrous consequences of this are defined in art. 2 of this law. I will not recall a resolution of the European Parliament to which a very, very large part of the European representatives, the European members of the PES, of which you are also a member, supported this resolution. There is also a very clear international political assessment of both the First World War and the facts behind it. And now, Professor Hristov, I'm going to start specifically on your questions: Did you know that...? Did you know that on 5 September 1944 the Soviet Union declared war on Bulgaria, despite the existing diplomatic relations between the two countries, although Bulgaria had already declared neutrality in relation to... [[noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] ...of the war between Germany and the Soviet Union? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Although there is not a single German soldier in our country, in no way during the war any Bulgarian soldier or military unit fought on the Eastern flank against the Red Army. [[speaking indistinctly]] At the same time, the Soviet Union is preparing a major offensive operation against Bulgaria along one front [[Laughter at BSP for Bulgaria.]] And this, according to the memoirs... No, no, I'm really gonna cut off the answer to the question. Please put...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u194	Colleagues, in any case, your reactions, I don't think they're on the record. Maybe we should listen to Mrs. Zaharieva and then...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u195	And this is on the memoirs of the most famous Soviet commander during World War II, Marshal Zhukov. You claim that if it wasn't for the Soviet Union, our border with Greece would have passed 30 km south of Plovdiv. You forgot to score 90 km south of Sofia. The absurd claims are the only ones of Greece. There are protocols and, by the way, they are uploaded online, anyone can read them, for this conference and for the meetings of the two committees at which these claims are addressed..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... These are the only countries that have supported these claims, and some of them have abstained. During the Paris Peace Conference, however, the parties agree that the borders of Bulgaria should be returned to their species on 1 January 1941, recorded in art. 1 of the Paris Peace Treaty. [[Reply from the National Representative Alexander Pawnov.]] The proposal is supported by absolutely all countries, not only by the Soviet Union, except Greece, of course. Even more unfounded is the claim that someone planned the elimination of Bulgaria as a problem of its neighbours during this conference. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] It's not good to spread myths! In fact, Bulgaria even came out of World War II with a larger territory in 1940 a historical injustice was corrected and South Dobrudja was returned to Bulgaria. The act is internationally recognised as fair by all great powers and is not seen at all in Paris. A few words about reparations.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u196	I just wanted to say that...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u197	Well, I have to finish up. There's a lot of questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u198	Because you were interrupted, I gave you a lot of time and a little shorter, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u199	Thank you, yes. Here again Greece's claims have not been accepted, separate, specific requests have even caused laughter. Yugoslavia is giving up reparations not under Soviet influence, but because of the federalisation expected then with Bulgaria. The requested amount of Greece has been reduced twice as much and, although unpleasant, it becomes bearable. I would also like to point out, however, the fact that after the signing, after the occupation of September 1944, by the Soviet Union of Bulgaria, after the signing of the truce agreement, in art. 15 of the Treaty, in fact, costs of all compensations paid by Bulgaria to the Soviet Union exceed twice the reparations paid to Greece.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u200	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Maybe...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u201	And finally, that's the funniest statement. No, I can't help but answer that question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u202	You'll have the back, but okay. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Go on.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u203	The most interesting statement is that if it was not for the Soviet Union, Pirin Macedonia would be in Yugoslavia. In fact, if Tito and Stalin hadn't had a fight, Pirin Macedonia would have been in Yugoslavia and perhaps the whole of Bulgaria. As early as 1944, Stalin called Georgi Dimitrov and Yugoslav leader Josip Tito in Moscow and ordered a Macedonian Macedonian Macedonia to begin its first point of association with Yugoslavia. The break between Moscow and Belgrade in 1948 put an end to these intentions and arrangements. So...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u204	Perhaps you should continue in the back, Mrs. Zaharieva, that almost 10 minutes have happened and colleagues will rightly object that too much time...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u205	Yeah. However, this does not stop in this period the violent recording of a large part of the population between 1946 and 1948 as Macedonians in Pirin Macedonia, the beginning of the publication of the Journal "Pirin' in the new language then, and so on and so forth. So if there's a back, I'll answer. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u206	Perhaps there will be questions on the subject of Northern Macedonia as well. There might be more specific, yes. Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. According to the procedure in this type of question, two minutes are given to each of the MPs who have asked a question for a reply. Come in for a cue, Mr. Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u207	I thought my response would still be sustained within the good diplomatic tone required by both the institution and the person of the honourable foreign minister. Madam Foreign Minister, it's nice of you to sign a document and know what you're signing. The first paragraph of the document that you have signed is the so-called declaration, where you have morally explained the differences between an international treaty and this document, writes the following: "Although the month of May 1945 brings the end of World War II, there has been no freedom for the whole of Europe. The central and eastern parts of the continent remained under the rule of a communist regime for almost 50 years. The Baltic States were occupied illegally and annexed by the Soviet Union............. and so on. That's whether he had the Soviet Union declaration or not. Second, a Greek amendment proposal in the Project for a peace treaty with Bulgaria at the time, 1946: We offer the following: the borders of Bulgaria, as shown in the attached to this Treaty, will be as they existed on 1 January 1941, with the exception of the border with Greece, which will be defined as follows: (a) Pirin mountain; (b) The Rhodope Mountain (Dospat Dag) is in Turkish, if you do not know; (c) the Balkan of Karluk, and (d) The Beshtepe chain with the valley of the Arda River. Further on, under art. 9 of the Treaty: The Greek delegation insists on the following changes in the size, the composition of the armed forces of the kingdom of Bulgaria is: First, the Bulgarian ground troops do not exceed 35 thousand people to tell you something about the current situation?! Of which 15 thousand gendarmers, including border guard forces, are involved; the fleet of 2500 people; with a total power of 3250 tons; aircraft of 40 combat planes are now less.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12: Bulgaria shall not own or supply rocket weapons, marine torpedoes, submarines, any rapid torpedoes and boats. Further on... [[(Comments from GERB: The Search! Ten minutes.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u208	I'll give you a little more time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u209	You'll wait and listen. Learn to listen. [[GERB lines.]] No, you'll listen to what you want to say! This is a parliament, not just a monologue on your part.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u210	Don't engage in dialogue, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u211	Further, a statement by Greek representative Calaridis. Since someone here had said that it was only the wish of the Greek side, but of course it was not supported by our At that time. 1946, Britain was a British empire, which included the dominant Australia, New Zealand, India still listen and write down, and Canada. First, the representative of the United Kingdom states the following: "We consider it fair to give to Greece, which has been attacked three times by Bulgaria in the last 50 years, the strategic border that it wants. " which I read to you just now. Bulgaria's ban on keeping long-range guns at its southern border is a valuable contribution to Greece's security. We believe that the request for reparations by Greece and Yugoslavia of 125 million. The dollar to 1946, which it has to pay, we consider reasonable. I'm graduating: "Bulgarians, be calm." Your borders will remain intact. Vyacheslav Molotov. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u212	Thank you, dear Professor Hristov. It is clear that on this subject we cannot strictly observe the weather, but I will give more time for the back if necessary. Here you go, Mr. Pawnov, for your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u213	Dear Mr. Chairman! I will point out, Madam Minister, only two quotes from the declaration: the need must be based on historical facts and, the second: the distortion of historical events that led to World War II is a sad attempt to correct history. First of all, you didn't answer me: on what basis do you sign without a debate in Parliament because you said it was a declaration? For Ukraine was also a declaration and you submitted it to the National Assembly without attending here, and the Council of Ministers of Ukraine had not yet met and the declaration had to be accepted. Why is there a double standard for one declaration and the other? Besides, Mike Pompeo, who wrote that statement, and you guys, like poodles, joined. [[Laughter from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] He may have been confused by his President Trump, who says that the victory over Hitlerist Germany is a fruit resulting from their actions... the second front of the United States and of Great Britain. The second front was opened on June 5, 1944, when the battle for Moscow, Stalingrad, Kursk and the battle for Berlin had passed. It seems that in Pazardzhiska, a German high school, Bertolt Brecht, quite casually taught history. [[Laughter from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] And you're far from the historical facts. When in the Ardennes the Germans attacked quite massively on the second front the Americans and the English, they were in one defensive position and Churchill prayed to the Soviet leadership to force the campaign in Poland and East Prussia so that they could save them. The main victory is due to the Soviet Union, which is now being minimized. And you should know that there is a Potsdam agreement between the three great powers, the winners of the United States of America, Britain and the Soviet Union, with which decisions are made and signed by the three representatives of these countries for the post-war distribution of Europe. And it's not just the Soviet Union that, as you said, grabbed Eastern Europe. You're talking about Charter 77, I followed in Prague exactly 1968, when it was Prague Jaro, Prague events, but they didn't say a word, there were then student protests in Paris that made President De Gaulle flee to Germany. When one appreciates historical facts, one must be objective. I am dissatisfied with your response, and I believe you have no preparations for a foreign minister and you must resign. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u214	Thank you, dear Mr. Pawnov. You have the word for the doppelganger, Madam Minister, as your time and here is double two plus two minutes, four.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u215	I'm not going to be rude and say that you have no preparation for the MP because you don't know the Constitution. [[BSP's lines for Bulgaria]] But the declaration... I will make a statement: The declaration of the foreign ministers and the foreign minister of Bulgaria can join a declaration based on the powers of the Council of Ministers on Constitution and its powers by law. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And his authority by law! With regard to the declaration you voted on, it has not been submitted by the Council of Ministers, it has been submitted by a Member of the National Assembly. I wasn't there because I wasn't invited, no one even asked me if I supported her. In the end, the Members of the National Assembly may [[Reply from Valeri Jablyanov: "I invited you. "]] to submit declarations and accept even that we do not agree with.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u216	Please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u217	Professor Hristov, I even told you that you missed a mile away from Sofia. Nobody's questioning that. No one contests these claims by Greece. It is simply inappropriate to suggest that Bulgaria should have put up with 45 years of totalitarian regime because only the Soviet Union has saved Bulgaria from the withdrawal of territories. That's not true! [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Yeah, that's right. Yes, I'll tell you exactly who voted for and against, you listed them correctly. The first military commission rejects the Greek proposal with the following: eight against two, Greece and the South African Union, and three abstentions............................... and India, New Zealand and Great Britain. That's right. With regard to the very vote of art. 1 of the Paris peace treaty for the border of Bulgaria in 1941: 10 "for", 1 "against" Greece, 2 "abstention" "India" and the South African Union. So no one is arguing about this, but to argue, and right here it is about a distortion of historical truth, that only thanks, of course, is it true, yes, and the Soviet Union voted against it, but it is not true that it was only he who voted because there was no other way for this treaty to happen and then the territory would be taken away. So nobody's saying that. I am really surprised that a declaration that makes in the first part, which you very conveniently missed when you read, bowed before the sacrifice of the millions who died during World War II from many countries, but which says that, unfortunately, yes, it did not bring freedom to everyone in Europe and then when the Bulgarian Parliament with much sharper words 20 years ago has determined what this regime is, a Bulgarian foreign minister should refrain from signing or accession because it does not sign, joining this declaration. And for your information, the declaration was not proposed by the United States of America, but by Estonia. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Estonia! The United States of America joined them there. [[Laughter from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] So it can be very funny, but I really feel sorry that 30 years later there is still a dispute about the assessment of these 45 years in Bulgaria. Because, ladies and gentlemen, this is, in my opinion, a mockery of the memory of the thousands innocently murdered without trial or judgment of those who have endured tens of years in the camps created by this regime. And I'd rather, we might be thinking about what it would be like if we weren't these 45 years, what we could be right now, but we can't think about it, twisting facts about which there are many documents. And I will finish again: no one denies in this declaration the role of the Soviet Union, the role of the Red Army. But he denies the events and does not deny it, wants a true assessment of the events that happened afterwards. And I will quote, by the way, the European Parliament statement from last year because you said so: how World War II began, which, again, I say, according to all diplomats is the most faithful and most comprehensive political assessment of what happened before the First, during the First and after the Second World War. And there, I quote: the European Parliament of 2019 World War II, the most destructive war in Europe's history, began as an immediate result of the unfortunate fame-winning non-aggression treaty between the Nazi regime and the Soviet Union of 23 August 1939, [[noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Also known as the Pact Molotov "Ribbentrop" and the secret protocols thereto. So, gentlemen and ladies, I think it is really high time that we reached an agreement on the facts of history, facts based on facts and documents authentic in Bulgaria. What we require of our friends in the Republic of Northern Macedonia. It is good to set an example when we demand something from someone else!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u218	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. [[Noise and lines.]] What procedure, Mr. Christov? Personal explanation? [[Noise and lines.]] It seems to me that a personal explanation... Maybe a procedure of some sort or manner of conduct. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, the Rules also apply during parliamentary control, of course. Come in the manner of conduct, Mr. Hristov. I hope it's the way it's supposed to be. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u219	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is nice when mentioning the historical facts, the disgraceful bench was mentioned in addition to the Soviet Union, also Churchill and Roosevelt, who signed the distribution of spheres of influence in Tehran 1943, in Yalta February 1945, and in Potsdam June 1945. Then we will talk about facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u220	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Would you like a way to conduct yourself, Mr. Gajev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u221	Dear Mr. Chairman, I will address myself in the manner of conduct and I will not go into the subject of the matter as much as I would like, but I will follow the procedure as it is and I will address you...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u222	You should be. Give an example.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u223	...exactly by calling for you to follow the Rules of the National Assembly. And at a time when, even during parliamentary control, some people who are obviously in a restaurant because they use those words and behave offensively and inappropriately at least to the responsible minister, to impose remarks at the end, or at least in some way to return them to the good tone for the stand. Because, for example, if we are offended by education, it should also offend its own colleagues who are from Pazardzhiski constituency, which I think is not correct. [[Relations from the National Representative Alexander Pawnov.]] I am saying that you are insulting your colleagues, your own colleagues from the electoral district.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u224	Don't engage in dialogue, Mr. Gajev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u225	And if you can't accidentally overcome these passions in your parliamentary group, and so that it doesn't happen as a meeting of the Executive Bureau of the BSP, and you can't lead in the framework of questions asked by your colleagues in the parliamentary group, then you better call one of the other Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly or the Chairwoman to conduct the parliamentary control correctly. But if we are to talk about this, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the anniversary of the death of General Vazov was the death of a Doyran hero, mayor of Sofia, who we all are very proud of, who, by the way, died interned by the communist regime on 14 May 1945. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB. Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u226	Thank you, dear Mr. Gadget. In the manner of holding Mr. Jablyanov, please come in. I hope it is to me. I take all the criticisms, honourable Members, the information you provide.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u227	Dear Mr. Vigenin, all to you. There's no doubt you're a tolerant host. If you were strict and respected the time for answers, you should interrupt Mrs. Foreign Minister. It wouldn't have come to the exchange of some lines that shouldn't have been inherent in this room, and you would have saved her some uncomfortable moments that occurred as a result of her long-term speech. So sometimes be strict in time, give the seconds that are needed from above to complete the thought, but there is no point in doubling the answer, especially when it is incontinent.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u228	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. Let's take turns. The way you're holding it, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u229	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, my procedure is with you, Mr. Chairman. I appreciate the moderate tone and the way you comment. Colleagues qualified him as tolerant. However, I do not believe that in today's sitting during parliamentary control you have complied with the Rules of the National Assembly, which you are obliged to do as chairman of the sitting. You have violated the procedures rudely several times, you have allowed in the Chamber, in addition to noise, laughter, lines, banishments, and harsh insults to the institution whose representatives we are. Because for me, I suppose, and for you, my dear Mr. Chairman, it is offensive for the National Assembly to be called an institution and also insults to representatives of the government. You have also allowed a non-convention of explicitly written time in the Rules of the National Assembly for a reply of the Members of the National Assembly, and you are also admitting, at the moment, an opportunity to dialog with the speaker from the stand. I do not think this is the way in which the meetings should be held, and I hope that you will not only accept criticism, as you mentioned, but really change the way you conduct the meetings. Otherwise, I don't think you can stay in this place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u230	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vasileva. Who shall lead the meeting shall decide the Chair in coordination with the Vice-Presidents. I think it is the responsibility of each and every Member of the National Assembly to keep a good voice. Especially with regard to time, I think you would have objected in the same way if I had interrupted the speech of Deputy Prime Minister Zaharieva. So I think the driver's assessment is to be more tolerant in terms of time, so that additional tensions and other types of assessments can be avoided. There was another request. Come along in the manner of conduct and perhaps then we can move on to the next questions, because time has advanced. Here you go, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u231	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chairman, my procedure is with you in the manner of conduct. Unlike my colleagues in the part that you were really tolerant, you deserve my commendations personally. Because here every MP who does procedure in the manner of conduct expresses his own opinion. And that's what this procedure is about. For this reason, I congratulate you for feeling the importance of the matter and giving time to our foreign minister to defend his thesis, in which there is nothing wrong and has not been done for the first time in our parliament. On the contrary, every time there is such an important topic, whoever is holding the meeting, it does. So for me, that's quite acceptable. Naturally, my personal opinion, which I must tell you, Mr President, is that in this way you have given the foreign minister the opportunity not only to complete his thesis, but also to the replicators then to do their supplementary questions something that became clear later in the debate that it was absolutely necessary. But in the end, one remark to you as to the fact that all these procedures in the manner of conduct which have been taken up so far have actually expressed positions in terms of the debate that was being held on the subject. And at that moment you did not ask the Foreign Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria to remain in the Chamber with which she expressed her relations to the topic and to the MPs. Inconvenient questions hurt, especially when there are double arsins and the statements are accepted by parliament, the other is not. And it doesn't matter whether on the Constitution it should be signed or not, when it is on such an important issue, because it is the position of the foreign minister is the position of Bulgaria and not in particular of the foreign minister. For this reason, you should have called on the Foreign Minister to remain in the Chamber, no matter how much pain she may have had.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u232	Thank you, dear Mr. Chenchev. If we have exhausted this topic, let me inform you that the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will not participate in today's parliamentary control. That question is specified. We are going over the questions to the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev. The first question is from the MP Georgi Mihailov on mortality data on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria for the first four months of the years 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020. Here you are, Professor Mihailov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u233	Thank you, Lord Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! The questions on which we will meet in parliamentary control from now on for a very long time will be related to the situation we are experiencing and at the moment in the Republic of Bulgaria, which the whole world is experiencing. One way to assess it objectively is to carefully monitor the level of the overall and profiled mortality for us specifically on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. That is why my question is: do you have any data on this data that has been exported daily by the National Operational Headquarters, but only in one direction and we know them well at all about the death in Bulgaria during the four months of the respective 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u234	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u235	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, dear Professor Mihailov! The Ministry of Health does not collect and process data on mortality in Bulgaria and can express an opinion only on the basis of official statistics. The statistical activity in the field of health is carried out by the National Statistical Institute and the Directorate of National Health Data and Electronic Health at the National Centre for Public Health and Analyses, which are bodies of statistics. According to the regulations, statistical authorities are state bodies or their structural units which develop, produce and disseminate statistical information under the methodological guidance of the National Statistical Institute and in the implementation of the National Statistical Programme, which is developed in accordance with Chapter 3 of the Statistics Act, and is adopted by decision of the Council of Ministers. According to the National Statistical Programme, mortality data for reasons are produced, distributed and stored by the National Statistical Institute. In view of this and in relation to your question, a request was made to the National Statistical Institute for the provision of mortality data for the first four months of 2017, 2018 and 2019 and 2020. The data provided by the National Statistical Institute are as follows: 2017 40,825 deaths; 2018 "38 603; 2019 This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. " 37,808. This data, Professor Mihailov, I have it for months, and if you wish, I'll give it to you. The data provided to us for 2020 is preliminary. The NSI states that there is a delay in recording, processing certain reports of death, which is why the number of deaths for 2020 will change with each subsequent generation of the reference submitted to us by weeks. For 2020, I also have information about the first 17 weeks of the year. Information on mortality for reasons is currently not provided to the Ministry of Health. Upon receipt of official data from the National Statistical Institute, the same, esteemed Professor Mihailov will be provided to you immediately.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u236	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Professor Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u237	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, in Europe there is the so-called European mortality index, which monitors this mortality every month and brings together the efforts of many EU countries. Unfortunately, since I made a detailed reference, Bulgaria does not participate in this index. This suggests a very painful problem which I have repeatedly addressed here in this Chamber, not only to you, of course, but also to your predecessors, and I now allow myself to stress that in order to have a momentary, real picture of the reasons that lead to the most important indicator in the effectiveness of health, such as mortality, imposes both the creation of registers for individual diseases and very close interaction between the Ministry of Health and the National Statistical Institute. Since I have addressed you and the National Centre of Public Health, the data you have now kindly provided to me has also been provided to me. But from these data, as you, no one, can draw any professional conclusions. It's not for the benefit of our health care. We need to change as quickly as possible, and this suggests one of the major problems that still exist Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u238	Thank you, Professor Mihailov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u239	Just one sentence, Mr. Chairman. You're right, Professor Mihailov. The answer is in building the National Health Information System and e-health. You know that my team is working extremely intensively on this issue.. Even today we had a meeting with the entire management of.......................................................the whole management of.................................... We've done the schedule, as I promised you in another question you asked me. The idea is for the main elements of the National Information Health System to be ready by the end of the year, even by the end of November, so that we can finalise the project within the time limit that is set for us. There will be really very detailed, timely, daily information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u240	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question is from the MPs Georgi Svilenski, Hristo Prodanov and Georgi Yordanov regarding the financial stimulation of medical specialists in the conditions of a pandemic of COVID-19. Mr. Yordanov will develop the issue. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u241	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Almost two and a half months after a state of emergency was declared and then an extraordinary epidemic situation Bulgarian citizens asked themselves questions and evaluated the actions of the institutions during this pandemic in Bulgaria and in the world. The specific question that I want to put today is the question of first-line medics and the idea of them being financially compensated to a certain extent, I say only to a certain extent. First of all, for the first time in my familiar literature, as we say in the scientific community, the idea was that the first line was the medics from hospitals. On the first line are the medics from the outpatient care "the so-called general practitioners, dentists, pharmacists and medical specialists. This idea of stimulating first-line medics mainly in hospitals and emergency care centres, which I forgot to add to those on the first line, led to problems between them because it turns out that the health institution assessed differently the contribution to mastering the pandemic for the different categories of medics involved in it. And indeed it was ultimately about 1,700 people from the 100 thousandth army of the medics who worked in Bulgaria. Here I do not ask the question that the sum of 1000 leva. In fact, it represents for most of them almost a double increase in the remuneration they have received so far. My specific questions to you are: Do you consider it normal and fair to be financially stimulated only the medics from the hospitals and the emergency services centers........ also..................................................................................... Aren't the doctors and medical specialists on line one from outpatient medical care, dental doctors and pharmacists? Do you not consider that the number of financially stimulated medics of 1,700 people, according to your data, is negligible compared to all those working in the healthcare system around 100,000 people? Do you consider it appropriate to use the criterion of the number of carriers with the COVID-19 in a hospital as determining the number of medics with a financial supplement due to them? The number of medics, carriers and patients with COVID-19 increases daily. There have already been deaths. How will you take care of them, including financially? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u242	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u243	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Associate Professor Yordanov, the data you quoted on the number of medical and non-medical staff and the amount of the funds paid for additional remuneration of 1000 BGN. in implementation of the Project "Support of workers in the healthcare system in the context of a threat to public health by CIVID-19" funded by the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" 2014 " 2020" applies only for March 2020. According to the latest data for March 2020, additional remuneration of 1000 BGN. have received a total of 3578 persons of BGN 5, 297,702, including personal insurance, income tax and insurance on behalf of the employer, including BGN 2,56 196. and 1860 employees of the Regional Health Inspections, of the National Center for Infectious and Parasitic Diseases and of the Emergency Medical Centers of BGN 2,741 506. Additional salaries for April 2020, according to preliminary estimates, are expected to receive a total of 6626 persons of BGN 9 454 607, including personal insurance, income tax and employer's contributions. Of these persons 3950 are medical and non-medical personnel of already 59 hospitals throughout the country, amounting to 5550 thousand. lv. and 2676 employees of RZI, NCPB and CSMP of BGN 3 904 467. The implementation of the Project provides for additional remuneration to be paid to medical and non-medical personnel directly involved in monitoring, diagnosis and treatment activities for patients with proven CIVID-19 who are accommodated for hospital treatment. To this end, clear objectively measurable criteria are described, on the basis of which the number of persons in the medical institutions should receive the additional remuneration of 1000 BGN. These criteria ensure the fairness and predictability of hospital care facilities, as well as increasing the motivation of first-line employees and the opportunities for protection from the disease. As far as other health professionals are concerned, doctors and healthcare professionals from outpatient medical care, dentists and pharmacists who are not included as possible recipients of the additional remuneration, I would like to make it clear that opportunities have been created for them all to receive additional remuneration for this period, regardless of reduced reception and temporary cessation of certain activities. This, Associate Professor Yordanov, is the mechanism for which I had the opportunity yesterday in the Committee on Health to clarify. They're just financed in another way, even though they don't have patients, we finance up to 85% of the average month's work. That is to say, this is a mechanism which was created on the basis of a Law adopted by Parliament for funding under adverse conditions. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Health has no legal basis to assist the medics, viral carriers and patients of COVID-19, as well as the deceased medics, but as a sign of empathy in the Ministry of Health there is an initiative to collect donations to support the families of the deceased medics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u244	Thank you, dear Mr. Ananiev. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u245	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! I will not hide that the issue is from the beginning of the big debate on the attitude of state institutions in times of crisis and not just them. Here I want to tell you that I understand you and to a certain extent I sympathize with you. You did what was possible because it turned out to be said in the light of the models for the future reform in the field of health that what you can manage is only those around 30, at my discretion, remaining medical institutions of different categories, in which there is state or prevailing state ownership. It turns out that the idea of the healthcare market, which will regulate all relations in healthcare, is not valid. I therefore ask you, in future actions, when the time comes again, that we may comment on the reform of health care, that you bear in mind what happened and which Bulgarian medics and medical institutions, depending on their particular interest, can be relied on.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u246	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Would you like a douche? No. We move on to the next question by the National Representative Nona Yotova regarding the filming of the transmission as two drops of water in violation of the anti-epidemic measures. You have the floor, Mrs. Yotova, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u247	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! On the day when your order for musical and theatre performances came out, with the restriction of doing so only outdoors, at a distance between the viewers and up to 30% public, the broadcast of the National Television was broadcast as two drops of water. It was broadcast live, in a closed room and with an audience. Apparently there were guests without a mask, at least those who were invited to participate, sat down and it seemed that the exquisite distance was not respected. Yeah, at first you could see that they were in one chair, and then, after all, it's an emotional transmission, and you could already see footage of people standing literally next to each other. The public was blown up by the day your order came out to conduct these things only outdoors, on the same day it was held in a closed room. There were publications and there was a lot of talk, then the producers of the show explained that they had permission from RZI for the presence of an audience. My question to you is: has RZI issued permission for the presence of an audience? If so, by what act and on what grounds? If not, what is your attitude towards disobeying your order? Do you have any information that anyone else has been allowed to do that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u248	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yotova. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u249	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Iotova, in connection with the question asked regarding the shooting of the transmission as two drops of water in violation of the anti-epidemic measures, I would like to inform you of the following: by letter with outgoing No 22-38/1/11.05.2020. The Sofia health inspection informed Mrs. Iva Stoyanova and Mr. Nikolay Andreev who are members of the New Broadcasting Group Ltd. that it does not object to the admission of an audience to the hall during the live broadcast of the television broadcast, subject to strict compliance with the requirements for physical distance, all anti-epidemic measures and eligible employment of 30% of the maximum capacity of the hall, in accordance with this point. 5e of Order No RD-01-256/11.05.2020 of the Minister of Health. The Sofia Regional Health Inspectorate considered that the visit of viewers to the transmission was an option to comply with the anti-epidemic measures in the event of subsequent loosening of the restrictions related to the coronavirus infection. Despite the organisation being established, it has been shown that the measures and personal responsibility of the viewers cannot be relied on, especially in an emotional experience. When carefully tracking the recordings of the transmission, it is seen that there was a violation of the permissible physical distance in places. In view of the audience it was found that there were isolated cases of visitors without masks. In relation to the above, within the framework of the legal powers, the Sofia Regional Health Inspection will issue a criminal decree on the organisers of the transfer and individual administrative acts for individuals who have violated the Order of the Minister of Health. I am confident that this case will help the authorities of state health control to make clear recommendations for the establishment of a better organisation when conducting events of this kind in order to strictly comply with anti-epidemic measures in accordance with the Minister of Health's orders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u250	Thank you, dear Mr. Ananiev. You have the floor for a line, Mrs. Yotova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u251	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Minister, colleagues! I thank you for that answer, because, you know, I'm an actress, I'm also a musician, I've been on this show, but I don't want anyone to think I'm a retailer. I want to assure you that we artists during the entire state of emergency, then the epidemic environment, were one of the most disciplined people, because we are usually like this. Everyone was at home, they were following all the measures, and at some point when it happened, it happened again next week when it was closing, suddenly a large part of us felt a double standard, that is to say that we could solve for some, and most of us didn't think that something like this might happen. I have to tell you, I really miss the scene. It's all the artists' great love. I even got a nomination this year for a comedy actress at the Satyrical Theatre. I'm sorry for a lot of things I missed that couldn't happen. I don't think there should be double standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u252	Thank you, Mrs. Yotova. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u253	Dear Mrs. Yotova, if there is anyone to thank, I would like to thank you for this question and for this signal, as the feedback from Bulgarian citizens to us is very important to evaluate every measure that is being taken, how it is being implemented. Of course, we don't have the opportunity to watch everything that's on TV, it's just that the work schedule doesn't allow us, and that's why this feedback communication is very important to us. As you, as a real participant in art, so do we need to restore the normal activity of the stage arts indoors. We are also working on this without saying a date, but we will soon give the opportunity to enter both the theatres and operas, of course, with certain sanitary hygiene and other anti-epidemic measures, but I hope we will make you happy as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u254	Thank you, dear Minister. We move on to the next issue of the National Representative Maria Tsvetkova regarding the treatment of patients with coronavirus in Yambol and measures against the spread of the disease in the city. Here you are, Mrs. Tsvetkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u255	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Yambol was among the last areas in the country where the presence of coronavirus infected was detected. This happened on April 15th, and to date, slightly more than one month later, the reported cases with COVID-19 have already been 132, of which 13 have died. The cases registered in the last 24 hours in the country are 41, of which 11 are in Yambol. The most affected district of Yambol is Raina Knyaginya, with a predominantly gypsy population that has become an outbreak of the virus in the city and this is due to the non-compliance with anti-epidemiology measures. The Regional Medical Council correctly and adequately built checkpoints and imposed restrictive measures in the neighborhood and 14 streets in the area. About 90% of the patients placed at the Hospital St. The Panteleimons in Yambol are from the district of Raina Knyaginya. The total number of people admitted with COVID-19 at the Yambol Hospital on May 15th is 31, representing nearly 10% of all infected in the country, which are located in medical facilities in Bulgaria. Against the background of this high percentage at the Hospital St. Panteleimon is the only hospital on the territory of Yambol region that currently accepts patients infected with the virus, has only one respirator. In addition, due to the growing outbreak and the increase in the number of infected district hospital in Yambol is in difficulty, is experiencing a shortage of medical staff and a high load of available personnel. In this regard, Dear Minister, we ask you the following questions: how many respirators are provided for the University Hospital. Panteleimon "Yambol," and what are the opportunities for the hospital to receive them as a priority in the case of delivery, given that it has only one, working in an epidemiological explosion situation? Second question to the University Hospital. Panteleimon: how will Yambol Hospital receive the funds for the stay and treatment of uninsured patients with COVID-19 who are nearly 90% in Yambol Hospital? Last question: Do you share the desire of many of the city's residents to preserve the built-up checkpoints in the Yambol district.?Rayna Knyaginya.................................................................................................. I am stating that two days ago, the restrictive measures for the quarantined neighborhood have been removed and the crossing points have been removed. Do you think this is premature? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u256	Thank you, dear Mrs. Tsvetkova. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u257	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Tsvetkova! About the provision with respiratorys of the Hospital "St. Four devices for artificial pulmonary ventilation are available in the medical establishment on 12 March 2020. According to hospital data, one number of fans is delivered as a donation after this date, three more are expected, of which one donation, one number with the provision of targeted capital funds from Yambol Municipality and one number paid with their own funds. The Ministry of Health implements the project "Coven with COVID-19" under the Operational Program "Regions in Growth" which is intended to deliver 317 devices for artificial pulmonary ventilation to the state institutions. This project is designed for distribution, approved by the National Operational Headquarters, five new fans for the Hospital Yambol. Of course, I will do my best to get the Yambol hospital to receive them, and the first deliveries to be directed to Yambol Hospital. Regarding the funds for the treatment of uninsured patients with COVID-19, the Health Insurance Act sets out the rights and obligations of the Bulgarian citizens regarding the introduction of insurance contributions for compulsory health insurance. It should be noted that through art. 40 of the Health Insurance Act sets out groups of the population for which health insurance contributions are paid at the expense of the state budget. In this way, the State guarantees the access of these population groups to health services within the scope of compulsory health insurance. Additional measures are provided for persons who do not fall within those groups to enable their inclusion for access to medical care. In accordance with art. 82, para. 1, t. 1a of the Health Act and outside the scope of compulsory health insurance is provided for the provision of medical services related to intensive treatment of uninsured health persons. This ensures the possibility for individuals with COVID-19, where necessary and intensive treatment to be treated, and the funds for this are within the framework of the transfers under the budget of the Ministry of Health to the National Health Insurance Fund, as defined by the Budget Act of the Fund for 2020. For activities for uninsured citizens, including to ensure intensive treatment of uninsured persons. This ensures the possibility for the NHIF to pay to medical institutions providing intensive treatment to such persons, including the disease of COVID-19. In addition to the above, with PMS No 17 of 2007 laying down the terms and conditions for the expenditure of the targeted means of diagnosis and treatment in hospital care facilities for persons who do not have income and/or personal property to provide them with personal participation in the health insurance process, the possibility of guaranteeing the right of uninsured persons to access medical care is provided. For this purpose, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy through its budget ensures the payment of the value of hospital care provided for diagnosis and treatment in the medical establishments of Bulgarian citizens who do not have income and/or personal property. Last but not least, account should also be taken of the possibility of recovering health insurance rights through personal payment by the health insured person of health insurance contributions under the Health Insurance Act. If medical assistance to persons with COVID-19 cannot be applied any of the above payment mechanisms, the medical establishment shall be able to apply the provisions of art. 52 of the Health Insurance Act, according to which the uninsured persons of the NHIF pay their medical care at prices fixed by the medical establishment. And on the third question, about measures to limit the spread of COVID-19 as a result of increased securitisation in the district of Raina Knyaginya, Yambol, in order to achieve an adequate and timely response to the epidemic situation with COVID-19, it is necessary to implement complex measures from the public health system and society as a whole that can be adapted according to the particular situation. With the development of the epidemic process from COVID-19 in the country and in order to limit the spread of the infection and the protection of the population, the entry and exit of other settlements such as Bansko, Blagoevgrad district, Panicherevo village, Stara Zagora district, and Yasenovets village, Razgrad district, or districts of settlements, such as the district of Sofia. A similar practice was introduced by the People's Republic of China and by a number of European countries that reported a sharp spike in the number of CoVID-19 infected. The European road map towards lifting the COVID-19 measures states that the gradual cancellation of measures already in place with regard to the prevention of COVID-19 must be consistent with the evolution of the epidemiological situation [[the President signals that time has run out]] , the capacity of the health system is complete, Mr President, and in ensuring a balance between health, economic and social considerations. In the light of the above, I believe that the decision to maintain or cancel the checkpoints in the district of Rayna Knyaginya, Yambol, should also be based on data after an in-depth assessment of the Regional Crisis Headquarters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u258	Thank you, dear Mr. Ananiev. In principle, I have also informed the President of the National Assembly that sometimes the answers are extended a lot, but also the Members of the National Assembly in one question ask two or three more questions. I can't help but let the minister answer every single one of them. Here you are, Mrs. Tsvetkova, for your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u259	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, I am pleased, Minister, with the answer to the first two questions. With regard to the third issue, I believe that measures in the district of Rayna Knyaginjas in Yambol should not be loosened, and the checkpoints should remain until tests are carried out on everyone in the neighborhood and until they prove that they can comply with the anti-epidemiology measures. I find it correct and effective, as I have already noted, the measures by the District Medical Council and that these crossing points have been built, but I do not think they are hasty. A huge problem faced by RZI employees is precisely that in this neighborhood residents avoid receiving quarantine prescriptions and thus actually avoid the fines for their violation. Massively, the residents of the neighborhood do not allow PCR or blood samples to be done. I don't know, Mr. Minister, if you are familiar with a false leaflet that is being handed out, with the logo of the Ministry of Health, where residents of the neighborhood are being called and instigated to rebellion, to insubordination, to mutiny to statehood, not to wear masks, not to comply with any measures, and in which it is explained that they should not give samples, as they would thus be infected with the RNA virus. I believe that with their undisciplined and irresponsible behaviour, there is a high risk that the check-crossing measures will be removed and that tens of thousands of residents of the district and the city will be threatened by loosening them. In this way, all care will rest on the medical staff again. [[the President signals that time has run out]] from the Yambol hospital, which is already overworked and understaffed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u260	Thank you, dear Mrs. Tsvetkova. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u261	Of course I'm familiar with the fake flyer that's spreading around this neighborhood. It's undignified behavior and action. We immediately addressed the local authorities with a view to preventing it from continuing to spread, but this is not the solution. Since you continue to believe that the situation in the district of Raina Knyaginja is really so difficult, I undertake to contact the district governor, who is also the head of the Regional Crisis Headquarters, and why not some of the other members of the Headquarters, to see if the situation escalates, or if there is some taming of the situation in the neighborhood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u262	Thank you, dear Minister. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. We will proceed to the questions to the Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov. Three questions for Mr. Dimitrov. He and I will complete parliamentary control. The first is from the MP Dzhevdet Chakarov on the administrative capacity of the Ministry of Environment and Water. Mr. Chakarov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u263	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, Ministry of Environment and Water as well as before, but he is now facing very serious challenges. Firstly, as a solution to the water control problem, as well as to the construction of treatment plants and sewerage networks, where we have overdue commitments made to the European Union. There is also a very serious challenge in the field of waste management in view of the processes that have developed and the exceptional sensitivity of our public. In addition, there are also serious challenges in the field of biodiversity conservation, where the Ministry has been very upset with the failure to issue within the time limits of all orders for protected areas under the Natura 2000 network. It is true that these problems are inherited by you.. they are from the time before you take office, but they are a fact anyway. This is a serious challenge for the Ministry and for you. At the same time, the problems and tensions which until recently were known in both the central and regional structures of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Interior to both heads of these structures and at a purely expert level because of a number of checks by the prosecution and the Ministry of Interior, which further complicates the situation, the formation, the realization of environmental policies and the extremely serious control functions that the Ministry of Environment and Water has. In this regard, Mr. Minister, my question to you is: is there currently the necessary personnel potential, both at central and regional level, to deal with the problems? If not, what are the reasons for this? In which units is he the most serious, if there is such shortage of personnel? What measures will you take as Minister of Environment and Water and the management team of the Ministry to enhance the administrative and expert capacity of the Ministry of Environment and Water? Thank you for your attention. I'm waiting for the answers.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u264	Thank you, dear Mr. Chakarov. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u265	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chakarov, Ministry of Environment and Water performs its functions by implementing and controlling the implementation of the national environmental policy by developing policies on individual environmental components and pollution factors. The following conclusions shall be drawn from the review carried out of the organisational structures and administrative units in the MOEW according to the functions and tasks it performs, in line with the workload and specifics of the activity, taking into account the quantitative and qualitative characteristics of the personnel. In the implementation of the policy of reducing the number of public administration over the years led by the Council of Ministers, the Rules of Procedure of the MoEW, amended several times, was reduced by 10%. Despite the substantial restructuring, available staff shall be assessed as insufficient. One of the main reasons is the budgetary constraints and the requirements imposed for the reduction of the state administration are the main reason. We're constantly getting new functions. The state's getting smaller. The shortage of human resources stems not only from the increase in functions, tasks and changes in the regulations, but from the qualification, with a serious problem finding well-trained personnel with a specific profile. The increased duties and the requirement to fill the expert composition of specialists in biology, hydrobiology, chemistry, engineering chemistry, hydrogeology, engineering geology, engineer-chemists, ecology, bioengineering, bioelectricity, architecture, water networks and facilities and water cleaning do not correspond to the non-competitive pay in the structure of the Ministry, which is why it is often in an objective inability to fill the numerical composition. The salaries in the MoEW administration are lower than the administration in the other ministries, which are at the same level. The analysis across the whole structure of the MOEW shows that the staff is insufficient for the vast areas and the diverse control functions that cover the relevant units. We have directorates that extend almost half of Bulgaria. We have employees who don't get paid overtime on Saturdays and Sundays, and they are obliged to go to checks every Saturday and Sundays day and night. There are relevant groups who call on the phones every Friday, Saturday or Sunday, only to make checks one, two, three, four, and this thing is not paid. To a certain extent, we make fun of our employees, and for any signal that is recorded, which, as it pleases on the phone and pretends to be whomever they are not, they are obliged to carry out checks, and then checks are carried out accordingly on the checks, whether they have gone in due time, in due time and so on. All this greatly discourages the employees and insults them. In the first quarter of this year alone, the turnover of staff in the central management of the MOEW administration has increased by leaving 6% of the total number. There are cases where candidates with inadequate qualifications are present without the necessary minimum knowledge which fail to meet the minimum requirements for competitions. In others, the contest ends with an elected candidate who subsequently finds a much better job, with higher pay and less workload. It should be noted that there is generally a growing shortage of personnel in the field of engineering-technical and natural specialities. At present, the solution we are looking for is by redistribution of activities between available employees in the Ministry and territorial units and the award of additional tasks and responsibilities to available qualified personnel. In the medium and long term, the lack of new additions and conditions for continuity and transmission of experience can become a serious challenge to the Ministry's personnel provision.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u266	Thank you, dear Minister. Would you like a line, Mr. Chakarov? Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u267	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! What you have presented to us, dear Mr. Dimitrov, is definitely very disturbing in view of the insufficient expertise and administrative capacity of the Ministry. In view of the events I have already pointed out in the first part of my question and the questions I have asked you in view of the protests that were in place at the end of the previous year and the beginning of the present year, the situation is even more complicated and we know that it is not only that in the Ministry of Environment and Water and in view of the insufficient expertise and administrative capacity. Overall, this is a problem in the public administration and, of course, I do not share that they should not be paid attention, but only to the IT specialists, but there are also specific positions and profiles as you pointed out in the Ministry of Environment and Water, where there should be a more differentiated approach. There is no way in the Ministry of Environment and Water salaries are the lowest. I do not share such a position and as a former minister I know that this process is not easy at all, and perhaps there should be support from the Council of Ministers and the government. I also say this from the opposition position, in order to form and implement adequate modern environmental policies both in terms of the comparison of other EU member states and modern leading environmental policies worldwide. There are indeed very serious challenges ahead of you. I would like, naturally, in the formation of budgets, and why not on an ongoing basis, to pay attention so that these policies can be covered and implemented. We have seen problems in water management and waste management [[the President signals that time has run out]] with regard to the protection and protection of biodiversity, our wonderful environment, because all this has to do with the health and life of all of us who live in this wonderful country of Bulgaria, which is one of the extremely rich in biodiversity. I'm done, Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask you: what else can be done by the Committee on Environment and Water and all of us to support this process for adequate expertise and administrative capacity? The other question, Mr. Minister: how, in a state of emergency, in a pandemic, an epidemic of coronavirus and the fight against it, and now the emergency epidemiological situation, what is the work of the Ministry in view of the challenges it has? How do you manage in this complicated situation with these problems, you and your team, both at central level and in regional structures? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u268	Thank you, dear Mr. Chakarov. You asked the Minister a lot of questions. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u269	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chakarov, I fully agree with everything you have listed, the challenges are great. Colleagues who work are easier to become teachers and to receive a much greater salary than to be responsible for, to walk on checks, to constantly comply with the regulations that change and to deal with a number of non-specific or newly commissioned tasks. With regard to the crisis situation that was created throughout the country, I issued an order on 19 March and took action for the zoning of Bulgaria in the regions concerned and for the recovery of staff from one region to be able to travel freely in another and provide transport and logistics. We created a spare Ministry if we had to go down to the halls and be able to work so as not to shut down the Ministry and its activities, no matter what diseases might happen with us, including I gave orders who would replace me and asked all colleagues to reassign themselves to work with each other. A huge part of the staff was sent home so that they could operate remotely with the right to access. We worked shifts, but every day, unfortunately, all the directors were at work, and they couldn't be away, and the few experts to assist. We bought thermal cameras and distributed them everywhere. We tried to create a good organization, and I hope we did. With regard to the fact that our work is constantly pressing, it was a big problem that we could not pay material stimulus to the people who are working on European projects and who are doing additional work. I hope that in time this problem will be resolved and paid off the necessary remuneration. We have huge challenges: we have European projects, we have water projects, we have environmental protection, we have air cleanliness, we have clean environment projects that have been from your time, a wonderful initiative that I hope we will continue. It has a very good understanding in all cities and villages where we apply it. Of course, we are looking at the implementation of the Operational Programme "Environment" which is a huge challenge and there is an extremely good administrative capacity to monitor under the European rules how funds are being used. It's all very stressful, but we're doing fine. I wish all my colleagues in the Ministry to be safe and sound!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u270	Thank you, dear Minister. Now follows the question by the MPs Lyubomir Bonev and Krum Zarkov about the water supply to the municipality of Pernik. Here you are, Mr. Bonev, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u271	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, Pernik Municipality has been trapped in the water crisis for seven months and the regime water supply in Pernik Municipality was introduced on 18 November 2019 and since then the Perniks receive water several hours a day. In the most critical months, the available volume of the dam was extremely close to the dead volume, while the water was even preparing an energy extinguisher facility under the main slider of the dam, which will further settle the water when drinking from the dead volume of the dam. Luckily, the snow and rain in recent months and weeks have helped to quickly fill the dam, with the volume available at the date of the submission of this issue being slightly over 7 million. Cube. m. In relation to the complicated epidemiological situation in the country, Pernik requested an increase in the hours in which Perniks can receive water. In this regard, my question to you, Minister, is as follows: what measures will the Ministry of Transport take in relation to the requested desire of the Water Department Pernik, to increase the hours in which there is water supply and, in relation to the complicated epidemiological situation in the country, what will be the policy of the Ministry of Water on water supply to the town of Pernik? I am obliged, Minister, to make it clear that my question is asked on March 13th, and from the date of its appointment so far, according to the latest data from this morning, Studena Dam has 17 million. Cube. M. It is important to clarify and know.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u272	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u273	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bonev, when you asked the question, the concerns were that the water was very low and will be released into the energy extinguisher, and from there it will go to the treatment plant and water supply. I would like to point out that this is done in the same way at the moment, even though the dam is full, that is, for other technical reasons. About what the MOEW is going to do. Ever since I became a minister, you've chosen me, we've been passing exactly the same amount of 100 grand on top as last year's city of Pernik without the conditions of crisis and without the conditions of regime. That is, the water that is being fed to the Perniks is much more than last year at the same time and without mode. Particularly, of course, I will tell you: in accordance with the competences we distribute the water between the dam "Studena" and the one that is floored by the newly built plumbing. The aim is for the newly built plumbing to provide much more water to accumulate in the reservoir of Studena and to have for a much longer time. You said there were 17,000 to date the dam, and if we subtracted the dead volume, we had exactly 14 million cc's of dead water. At a million and 400, it means that if we only use the dam to date, we'll have water for 10 months, then people come out and say, "Where did the water go to us, who drank it?" Therefore, I say that the plumbing from Sofia is an extremely good asset for the town of Pernik. The problem is that the plumbing from Sofia has to pass more water in order to accumulate in the dam and have for a longer time. On this basis we made estimates in March to submit 400,000 from Sofia and, of course, the other water to come from the dam. The figures for each month next April, May and so on, by the end of the year are to give 780 000 from Sofia, and the remaining 300 000 from the dam to be as full as possible to reach for a long time and not the next winter again to say: where is our water, we are facing a crisis and so on. So the acquisition with the Sofia plumbing, so to speak, is from Malo Buchino, which is with the Rila water for Pernik, is a very good undertaking. You need to get your license fixed and use it for years, and it will be useful. We have always advocated the idea that much more water should be given. We give 200,000 ccs a month in connection with the coronavirus, and the distribution of whether or not there is a mode is not up to us. The water is supplied and available. It's a problem, because you're going to ask that in all the years the dam has passed 400,000. Cube. m ecological swelling, which, because the plant's facilities were made more precisely a certain way in the past.. 1955, never reached the river, but always went to the treatment plant, and hence to the water meters and was paid for. At the moment we are passing quantities as they are last year, and it turns out that Pernik has missing quantities that have been received for all the years, but have not been paid to the MOEW. At the moment, someone needs to be found to admit that Pernik, apart from his due amounts from 800 to 1200 a month for the different years, has used some 400 thousand more for the various months that he has never paid. This is a problem of the control bodies in the face of the MoEW and the Swimming Directorate, which has exercised control and had to monitor the water meters. This is a problem of the management of the water water supply in the relevant years, which knew that all the quantities to be submitted directly go to the treatment plant. To date you are getting enough water and much more than last year, and for these 400 thousand will be an act and you will get them, like the other years, but you will simply know what Pernik's consumption is. In the long term: by repairing your installations, the networks for which the Ministry of Environment and Water has given enough funds, you have applied for projects, won them, leaks and losses will decrease and will reach for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u274	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Bonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u275	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Mr. Minister, at the moment the level of the dam is 17 million. Cube. M. A lot has been said about the water crisis in Pernik, many have pointed out the culprits, and at present we have nothing in black and white. Yes, it was necessary to build and seek a solution even short-term, to save the city under the conditions of this pandemic. Whether or not the plumbing, documents and construction papers to be issued are entirely in the prerogatives of the governor and the district administration, I cannot argue whether they have been issued or not. After all, he is chairman of the Water Association and, if he hasn't done his job, it's for him. What is necessary is to draw lessons from this water crisis. I am referring to Pernik, and in particular what was caused to 100,000 inhabitants of this city, to go beyond that clerical approach and constant speaking, that is, we must do everything possible. Yes, it will really build a water cycle in the town of Pernik and thanks to the funds from MOEW currently running repairs. These are the facts at the moment. As for the work done or badly done or unfinished over the years, whether by the managers of the water, by the district administration, perhaps it is you who must take responsibility.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u276	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u277	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will give you up-to-date information as of 21 May 2020. Available volume of the dam 16 million. 816 thousand. The volume that can be used, which can be relied on, is 14 million. 416 thousand. That's why I said, if we use it all, it's $1 million. 400,000. From the dam, we've got ten months. It's a good thing that the plumbing from Sofia exists. It could make up for it. For May we have authorised a quantity of 466 from the dam..Studena, and 806 from Sofia, so water is provided enough, the plumbing works from Sofia, and it works well. You have momentary problems with the pressures in the city, you solve them, you get better, but water is secure enough, and I hope that if the dam continues to fill, it will be fine. No one from the dam "Pernik" will carry the water in Sofia, the opposite from Sofia is submitted in Pernik. This plumbing is a good solution for the city and in the long term you will see how useful it will be for you. At the moment, the dam, if it's the only one used for Pernik, we have ten months. You understand how important it is to run the plumbing. It's not your fault, it's just a procedure. It was urgently built, it is clear that the permits could not be arranged in two days, but with a decision of the Council of Ministers submitted at my request, and they voted it out, for which I thank the other ministers from the Chamber and the Prime Minister, six months of water supply was allowed under crisis conditions. They're going to expire in another three months. A lasting solution must be made. It's an acquisition for the city that will be used for years. We have to spare the dam, we have to try as hard as we can to fill it. I'll personally help you in this thing. But I wouldn't want to waste water out of control, water leaking out of control, and also everything that came out of the dam and went to the citizens and they paid it, to be invoiced accordingly. You have a lasting solution for the city with this plumbing. Pernik became part of Sofia in a watery way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u278	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. We are now moving on to the issue from MP Stanislav Stanilov about the possibility of passing the National Institute of Meteorology to the Ministry of Environment and Water. This is also the last question of today's parliamentary control. You have the floor, Professor Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u279	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! On 1 January 2019 the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology came out of the system of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and became a departmental scientific organization within the Ministry of Education and Science. Such an act at the time made sense as a temporary solution to overcome a current conflict. Today it is imperative to seek a lasting solution for this institute, which is a very specific combination between a scientific organisation and a national hydrometeorological service. This combination suggests that the Institute should be specific enough in the matter department. In the last decade, the Institute's operational subsidy came from the Ministry of Environment and Water. It is most competent to monitor the appropriateness of its spending. It seems the Director of the Institute is seeking to avoid such control and has several times replaced in his statements the name of the Ministry, calling it only the waters. It is thus justified that the Ministry is concerned with only one part of the Institute's activities, but the published reports show that the Institute also performs other tasks outside hydrology, which were assigned to it by the Environmental and Water Executive Agency at the Ministry of Environment and Water. It should be noted that over the years the Ministry of Environment and Water has traditionally had notes on the efficiency of the work of the Institute and was even the only thing that has made them possible because it is also the most competent. In this regard, I ask you to answer me: why do you not want the Institute to be a secondary distributor with the budget resources of the Ministry of Environment and Water?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u280	Thank you, Professor Stanilov. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u281	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Professor Stanilov, Dear Mr. Glauchev! I'll start backwards. There's a long, detailed answer, and then I'll give it to you in writing. Specifically, why do I want to or not? First, I am a minister, I do what the National Assembly accepts, accept what the Council of Ministers has voted on. He voted this institute to leave the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and to go to the Ministry of Education. Under the current regulations, the Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology directly serves the activities of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications.. a good place to be there, the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry there are irrigation systems, could be there, the Ministry of Interior assists, there is also not a bad place, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Energy. See how many good places there are after it's been taken out of the academic community, where else to make a new academic community. My concerns are that, as we are responsible for the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests, we are providing water, someone would also decide that irrigation systems would come to our Ministry. The plumbing also received requests with water from us, the previous question showed it. Someone might have decided to let the VCRs come. Another, of course, would be pleased to say, since you are in charge of the thermal power plants, RDFs and hydroelectric power plants, you submit the water schedules, then perhaps the Ministry of Energy should move on to you. I think we've been giving a million dollars for years. $800,000. and that's enough if all the other five ministries gave so much, they could be their own organization and function normally. But that's what we're wondering, by taking them out of the same structure, where else to hang them, I don't think it's my problem, and I shouldn't be the one to solve it. Personally, I have no claim to their activities, they are helping us. The other day, they gave me a signal, I spread it to everyone in the country, we're working well, but I'm just trying to get a little extra work done just because they can't find a place. I will give an example: there is an ancient town of Sevtopolis in Koprinka Dam. Do you, as a professor of history, that I should ask Alma Mater to close down the History Faculty and transfer it to the Ministry of Environment and Water only because we have archaeological sites at our dam? I think it would be too much. We'll give you $1 million. $800,000. every year for the research that we get from them information. They're in a very good place, all the more so that they're part of the academic community. We are not an academic community, we are not a scientific institute, we do not do research and development, so I believe that the place which the Council of Ministers has assessed and the State Budget Act 2019 is good for them to stay there, to work. We fulfill our commitments and work together with them and with the other five ministries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u282	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Professor Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u283	Dear Minister, I thank you for the extremely witty response that was saturated and with a sense of humor, and this answer has shown me that the main mistake is that the Institute is removed from the BAS system. And my proposal and my question was in such a sense that the Ministry of Science and Education is even less of a place for this institute than yours and you by listing these different ministries............................. each to which this institute can be connected, you simply showed that it is a scandal, a personal ambition of the Director of this Institute, but this is now an issue which I will not concern you or the Chair of the Assembly, but will continue to engage the Ministry of Science and Education, as at the moment in the Committee on Education and Science is being examined at second reading the Law on this Institute, full of unnecessary, perfectly unnecessary proposals. Thank you for your attention. I understand the answer, and I have no objection.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-05-22.u284	Thank you, dear Mr. Stanilov. Would you like a douche? No. That's what we're running out of parliamentary control for today. Thank you for your participation, Mr. Minister. The next regular meeting was held on 27 May, Wednesday, 9.00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
