ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u1	Good afternoon, fellow Members. Please, registration mode. Good afternoon to colleagues who participate remotely in the meeting! Anna Alexandrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u2	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u3	Vladimir Toshev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u4	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u5	Georgi Dinev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u6	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u7	Georgi Kolev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u8	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u9	Desislava Kostadinova?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u10	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u11	Konstantin Popov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u12	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u13	Plamen Nunev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u14	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u15	Slavko Atanasov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u16	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u17	Thank you. Registered in the hall 120 MPs and 8 remote. The quarm is 128. The required number of MPs to make a decision in this House today is 65. [[PHONE RINGING]] Colleagues, on the grounds of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on a proposal from the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Hearing of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov on the basis of art. 113 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the technological parameters of the contracted vaccines, including the quantities of vaccines, the requirements for their transport and the counterindications for their application. Importers suppose Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. [[Reply by National Representative Cornelia Ninova.]] There's no motivation, it's my proposal, Mrs. Ninova, it's not art. 53, para. 3. I'm just offering under art. 53, para. 5. Today I have the right to propose. You don't have the motivation. Procedure, Mr. Ivanov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u18	Madam President, honourable Members! I'm doing a roll call check procedure before the upcoming vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u19	Yavor Rumenov Bojankov- absent Yavor Bozhilov Notev- here Yulian Mihailov Papasimov- here Julian Krastev Angelov- here Chavdar Yordanov Velinov- here Tsvetan Borisov Topchiev- absent Flower Valcheva Karayancheva- here Hristo Tanchev Prodanov- absent Hristo Georgiev Gajev-here Hristian Radev Mitev- here Hassan Ahmed Ademov - absent Hamid Barry Hamid-- absent. Halil Rexepov Letifov is absent Hayri Recepov Sadakov- absent Filip Stefanov Popov - absent Thomas Nikolov Tomov- absent Toma Lubomirov Bikov- here Todor Baychev - absent Teodora Radkova Georgieva- here Teodora Atanasova Halacheva- absent Tasko Mihailov Ermenkov- here Tanya Todorova Petrova- here Tanner Mehmed Ali is missing. Stoyan Radkov Bojinov- here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev- absent Stay Mitev Stoynov- here Stefan Ivanov Burgeev - absent Stefan Apostolov - here Stanislava Krasimirova Stoyanova- here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov- here Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov- here Stanislav Ivanov Stoyanov- here Stanislav Ivanov Popov- here Save Yanev Panchev- here Spas Georgiev Gurnevski- absent Smilyana Nikolova Niva-Krsteva- here Slavcho Stoev Atanasov (through the Internet) video conference platform) - here Slavi Dichev Netzov- absent Simeon Hristov Simeonov- absent Simeon Georgiev Naydenov- here Sergey Manushov Kichikov- absent Sevim Ismail Ali is absent Svetlana Angelova Naydenova- here Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova- missing Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev- here Rumen Petrov Genov- here Rumen Nikolov Georgiev- here Rumen Vasilev Gechev- here Rosen Malinov Malinov - absent Rosen Zhivkov Ivanov- here Ramadan Bajram Atali is absent Ralitsa Trilkova Dobreva- here Radostin Radoslavov Tanev- here Radoslava Plamen Chekanska- here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev- absent Polina Tsvetoslavova Tsankova-Hristova-here Polina Alexandrova Shishkova- absent Plamen Trifonov Hristov- here Plamen Tachev Petrov - absent Plamen Ivanov Manushev- here Plamen Dulchev Nunev(through the Internet) video conference platform)- here Peter Hristov Petrov- here Petar Georgiev Kanev- here Pavel Dimitrov Shopov- absent Pavel Alexeyev Hristov- here Nona Krasteva Yotova- here Nikolina Panayotova Angelkova- here Nikolay Tsvetanov Sirakov- here Nikolay Krastev Boshkov- absent Nikolay Ivanov Tsonkov- absent Nikolay Dimitrov Penev- absent Nikolay Georgiev Ivanov- here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov- absent Nikolay Asenov Tishev- absent Nikola Iliev Dinkov- absent Nigyar Sahlim Jaffer is absent Nelly Ruskova Petrova- here Nadia Spasova Klisurska-Zekova- here Mustafa Sally Karadaye- absent Mladen Nikolov Shishkov- here Mikhail Ivaylov Hristov- absent Mitko Kostadinov Polychronov- here Milko Nedyalkov Nedyalkov- absent Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova- here Milen Vassilev Mihov- here Menda Kirilova Stoyanova- here Martin Stefanov Obreshkov- here Maria Shtereva Belova- here Maria Yordanova Tsvetkova- here Maria Yordanova Ilieva- here Margarita Nikolaeva Nikolova- here Manol Trifonov Genov here Manoil Minchev Manev- here Lyubomir Boykov Bonev- here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov- here Lilyana Drumeva Radeva- here Lalo Georgiev Kirilov- here Krastina Nikolova Takova- missing Krum Kostadinov Zarkov- absent Cristina Maximova Sidorova- here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Krasimir Hristov Jankov- here Krasimir Mitkov Subev- here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev- here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov- here Krasimir Georgiev Tzipov- here Krasen Georgiev Krastev- here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - here Konstantin Veselinov Popov (through the Internet) video conference platform)- here Kolyo Yordanov Milev- here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva- here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin here Kalin Nikolov Popovski- here Kalin Lubenov Velev- here Kalin Dimitrov Vassilev- here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev- absent Yordan Iliev Yordanov- here Yordan Apostolov - here Ihsan Halil Hakke is absent Honest Vasilev Veselinov- here Irena Todorova Anastasova- here Irena Metodieva Dimova- here Imren Ismetova Mehmedova- absent Ilian Angelov Timchev- here Iglika Ivanova-Subeva- here Ivo Angelov Hristov- absent Ivelina Veselinova Vasileva (through the Internet) video conference platform) - here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov- absent Ivan Stefanov Valkov- here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski- here Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev- absent Ivan Dimov Ivanov- absent Ivan Valentinov Ivanov- absent Brought to you by Vassilev Iankov- here Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev- here Errol Osman Mehmet-- absent. Erjan Sebytin Ebatin is absent. Emilia Veselinova Staneva-Milkova- here Emil Seraphimov Tonchev- here Emil Marinov Hristov- here Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov- absent Elena Stefanova Pesheva - absent Elena Vladimirova Angelina- here Evdokia Slavchova Asenova- here Evgenia Danielova Angelova- here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva- here Evgeni Genchev Budinov- here Dragomir Velkov Stoynev- here Dora Stoyanova Hristova- absent Dora Ilieva Yankova- absent Donka Dimova Simeonova- here Dobrin Nenov Danev- absent Dimitar Stoyanov Stoyanov- here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov- here Dimitar Krumov Alexandrov- here Dimitar Ivanov Danchev- absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev- here Dimitar Ivanov Avramov- absent Dimitar Velichkov Georgiev - absent Dimitar Borisov Glauchev- here Dimitar Boychev Petrov- here Dilyan Stanimirov Dimitrov- here Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov is absent Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov is absent. Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva (through an internet platform for video conference) connection) - here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova- here Desislava Angelova Todorova- here Desislaw Slavov Chukolov- absent Desislaw Petrov Taskov- here Delyan Slavchev Peevski- absent Dean Stoyanov Stanchev- here Danka Evstatieva Zidarova-Lurtova- here Daniela Dobreva Dimitrova- here Daniela Dimitrova Maleshkova- here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva- here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova- here Daniel Petkov Yordanov- absent Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova- here Georgi Yanchev Gokov- absent Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski- absent Georgi Tenev Stankov- here Georgi Strahilov Svilenski- here Georgi Nikolov Vergiev- here Georgi Kolev Kolev (through the Internet) video conference platform) - here Georgi Yordanov Yordanov- absent Georgi Zaprev Dinev (through the Internet) video conference platform) - here Georgi Evdokiev Markov- absent Georgi Dimitrov Andreev- here Georgi Georgiev Stoilov- here Georgi Georgiev Mihailov- absent Galya Stoyanova Zhelyazkova - here Galya Eneva Zaharieva- here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov- here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev(through the Internet) video conference platform)- here There's a quorum, moving on. I put to the vote the proposal for entry on the agenda for hearing the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria. Colleagues who vote remotely, Mrs. Alexandrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u20	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u21	Mr. Toshev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u22	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u23	Mr. Dinev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u24	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u25	Mr. Kolev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u26	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u27	Mrs. Kostadinova?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u28	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u29	Mr. Popov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u30	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u31	Mr. Nunev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u32	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u33	Mr. Atanasov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u34	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u35	Thank you. Vote 157 MPs in the House plus 8 remote.. become 165: for 51, against 88 in the House plus 8 remote.. 96, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. Procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u36	Declaration.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u37	Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u38	Madam President, as this point is rejected, our proposal is rejected and is not a item on the agenda, I would like to make a declaration on behalf of the parliamentary group on this issue, which is not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u39	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u40	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! You know very well that the Prime Minister has not been in the National Assembly for more than a year. We live in a parliamentary republic and Parliament is the highest authority in the country. It will be no news to anyone that Mr. Borisov traditionally, systematically and consistently violates the principles of the parliamentary republic and statehood. But today is a different day. As for the management of GERB in the last 11 years he has consistently neglected the National Assembly, so today, scared of the situation and refusing to take responsibility for the consequences of the crisis, asks us, the MPs, to sign him an empty check and to use us as an indulgence for what is to come the purchase of vaccines and vaccination against COVID-19! You may agree today to press the buttons without having enough information about what it is. But we want to vote informed, justified and cared for people! Why did we want the Prime Minister to come and not the Health Minister, for example, and don't send him to us? Because the Prime Minister is the only one who knows about the substance, consistency, decisions being discussed and decisions being made finally in the European Commission. I can quote many of his statements to you, unfortunately, from the SUV or from Facebook about his participation in the Council of the European Union, about his talks with Mrs von der Lyon, Charles Michelle and so on, with all the leaders in the European Union on this topic, the vaccines. That is, he is the only one who can give us objective information on how these negotiations ended, what vaccines are agreed, what quantities, what prices are free, paid, mandatory, optional. These questions are not raised by us. The Bulgarian society is asking them.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u41	This is the item on the agenda! How can you break the rules?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u42	The item dropped from the agenda was rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u43	Point dropped, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u44	And there is a point of yes, Mrs. Ninova, speak on your decision, not specifically on the item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u45	That's why we wanted the Prime Minister to come, not someone else. But today, fellow MPs...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u46	Procedure in the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u47	...there is a very big, serious and state issue. [[Reply from the National Representative Lachezar Ivanov.]] You know very well that Bulgarian society is divided on the topic of COVID-19 and on vaccines.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u48	You're breaking it up irresponsiblely!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u49	The only way to give security, to give peace to Bulgarian citizens is to ensure awareness and transparency. It is our duty today, not just to press some buttons without knowing what you are voting for! And if we really are statesmen, you'll call him today! Or he, if he's listening, don't hide behind the parliament, hitting the parliamentary republic. Come here, Mr. Borisov, and explain to the Bulgarian people what you are doing! You missed golden time to explain! But now that the whole society is goosebumped and when it is divided, we must give the Bulgarians peace, security, transparency and awareness. The fear of the consequences of Mr. Borisov will affect the state in Bulgaria in full.................... the fact that people will accept vaccination, whether or not and so on! It is not scary to come to the Bulgarian Parliament, but it will be dangerous if it does not come, because this will deepen the division, will increase the distrust, and it is the biggest problem at the time of the government! The disbelief of the Bulgarians in the measures and decisions you make and offer is your biggest problem in the CIVID crisis! And if Borisov does not come today, he will personally cause this distrust to increase! Then don't blame anyone else for the consequences. Take responsibility for them! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u50	Procedure in the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u51	Mrs. Daritkova, I agree with you before you do the procedure, I allowed you to talk on a item on the agenda. That's right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u52	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I ask you not to grossly violate the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly by MPs who, due to the systemic sabotage of Parliament, have forgotten the fundamental principles of parliamentaryism. [[Applause and cheering: "Bravo!" by GERB.]] Please do not allow, except for violations of the Rules, and suggestions which unfortunately have as a consequence a division of the Bulgarian society. It is true that we cannot influence the institution that is against parliament, which also insinuates fear and division, but at least let the colleagues who are here in the National Assembly, and represent a large percentage of the Bulgarian citizens, be responsible enough to what is currently in Bulgaria as an epidemic situation and what is to come. Because only if we are united and do not inspire the fear of Bulgarian citizens...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u53	To come and explain! [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u54	...as we expect to have a political dividend, only then can we show a parliament... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u55	Quiet, please! Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u56	...who is expected of Bulgarian citizens! I cannot assume that your MPs did not present you yesterday with all the information that was given to the Health Committee! I cannot assume that you expect the Prime Minister to present the counterinhibitions for vaccine prophylaxis against COVID-19!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u57	To come and explain what's going on!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u58	The Minister of Health will be here and you can ask him all the questions you care about, and I believe that the competent answers will be received precisely from the Minister of Health. Otherwise, your obsession with the desire to see the Prime Minister here may be the subject of a long psychological study. [[Applause and cheering: "Bravo!" by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u59	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u60	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. Here you are, Mr. Svilensky, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u61	Thank you, Madam President. My procedure is in the manner in which you have not broken the Rules. The fact that colleagues from GERB are afraid to see the Prime Minister here; the fact that they sabotaged you by offering to enter the item on the agenda I expected that you would take this responsibility and defend parliamentaryism and get 96 votes against it from your parliamentary group... [[(Comments from GERB: You are less than 96!]] But, honourable Members, on each item on the agenda, the Prime Minister has reason to be here in the Chamber because he is Prime Minister of Bulgaria. [[GERB lines]] And on every item on the agenda, the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria can make a declaration, and it will always be related to the agenda, because the public expects from you, from us, from the Prime Minister, from the Council of Ministers an answer and an explanation. You continue to hide it for a year and justify yourself with the opposition in the Bulgarian Parliament! Say this guy can't handle it, you can't count on him, like you said... [[The President Tsveta Karayancheva turns off the microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u62	To me, Mr. Svilensky, to me! [[The speaker continues to speak with microphones off.]] You support me, say it once again, that you support me.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u63	I support your initiative to bring in the Prime Minister, but I cannot accept the refusal of 96 MPs from the ruling majority who boycotted you and did not respect your will. Madam President...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u64	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Each Member of the National Assembly shall have the right to exercise his or her right to vote as he considers appropriate.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u65	That's right, but behind each MP are 20 thousand Bulgarian voters who expect information about this vaccination process! And there is no way that the Minister of Health, who will come here, will explain what the Prime Minister knows, because he was in these negotiations.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u66	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u67	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u68	What procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u69	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u70	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u71	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I don't understand your reaction. You should rather listen to the opposition's voice! Dear colleagues, listen carefully to me: what does this point...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u72	Not to my coworkers!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u73	...and to you, Madam President, you put it on the agenda?! What requires the National Assembly to be a rubber stamp of the government and any point, every decision of the Council of Ministers to pass through the Bulgarian Parliament?! You will now try de facto to legitimize an action that is in no way work... [[The President Tsveta Karayancheva turns off the microphones. The orator continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u74	What's your remark to me? What's the point to me?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u75	That any decision of a minister or of the Prime Minister must pass through parliament! Then give after each meeting of the Council of Ministers these decisions to look at them in parliament! It is unacceptable what is happening in Parliament! We are not opposed to, understand, we are not opposed to buying vaccines, but the way it is done, this lack of publicity, transparency about the volume of vaccines, about the money that will be spent... [[The President Tsveta Karayancheva turns off the microphones. The orator continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u76	Mr. Stoynev, listen to me. Listen to me. [[The speaker continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u77	You should have listened to the opposition, you shouldn't have jumped the opposition! [[The speaker continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u78	Wait, wait a minute. Calm down, Mr. Stoinev. I don't have to do anything. I don't have to do anything! [[The speaker continues to speak with microphones off.]] I have shown good will and suggested that this item be placed on the agenda! I couldn't have put it to the vote at all, I couldn't have put it to the vote at all, but I absolutely tolerantly put this point to the vote and the House decided whether or not the Prime Minister would come!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u79	You're talking about different points!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u80	The Prime Minister is responsible for the general policy of the government, he cannot know in detail what is happening! [[The speaker continues to speak with microphones off.]] This vaccine point is here. Listen to me. This vaccine point is already on the agenda and there is nothing better than being here to get information that all Bulgarian citizens will receive today! [[The speaker continues to speak with microphones off.]] Well, talk to your MPs from the Health Committee, Mr. Stoinev! [[The speaker continues to speak with microphones off.]] Talk to them to inform you, and today the Minister of Health will come and explain everything to you! Parliament is the most public institution here will be debated and information will be given to the Bulgarian citizens! [[The speaker continues to speak with microphones off.]] Thank you, Mr. Stoinev! [[The speaker continues to speak with microphones off.]] Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. [[The speaker continues to speak with microphones off.]] Put your finger away! Please don't wave your finger! [[The speaker continues to speak with microphones off.]] The Quaestors, please ask Mr. Stoinev to sit down!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u81	I'm gonna sit here alone. There's no point in the Quaestors. Such decisions cannot pass through the Bulgarian Parliament!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u82	Here you are, Mr. Simov, in the manner of conduct. Now I do not understand whether this decision should pass through the Bulgarian Parliament, or should not go.... what exactly you want. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u83	Madam President, honourable Members! Madam President, my procedure is with you? I want you to explain in this Chamber on which topic Boyko Borisov should come to parliament. Tell me on which topic he can explain to Macedonia he cannot, for vaccines he cannot, for economic measures he cannot. Is there a topic on which the prime minister is competent to come here and explain to the MPs, and to the Bulgarian citizens, respectively, to appear, to show that he is aware of Parliament as an institution? Because at the moment we realize that there is no subject on which the Prime Minister is competent! There is no subject on which he can explain and this creates much more chaos than any other action! Turns out it's a lot more comfortable for the Prime Minister to be doing Facebook lifestyles, doing video games... [[The President Tsveta Karayancheva turns off the microphones. The orator continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u84	Thank you, Mr. Simov. You have been a fourth year's MP and you should know by the Rules of Procedure on what topics the Prime Minister answers. Here you are, Mr. Christov, in the manner of conduct. What would you advise me? Let's take turns. We have a lot of time today, guys.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u85	Madam President, I am taking a procedure in the manner of conduct, because it seems to me that you should have explained to all colleagues very early that the Prime Minister is not a doctor, he is not an immunologist, he is not a virologist, and I do not know what he can tell me about the coronavirus. To explain to your colleagues on the left that we're already listening a little too much to the politicians about the coronavirus. And I don't think the Prime Minister can say anything other than what we've heard so far from all politicians. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] So I suggest that we invite fellow Members of the BSP to appeal to you, and not to listen to the Prime Minister, the Minister of Health, although he is a doctor and perhaps it is more appropriate to invite him, rather than to talk now here for 15 minutes and to waste time in small talk. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and VOLLA.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u86	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Mr. Prodanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u87	Dear Madam President, in the manner of conduct. We have called on you many times, first of all, not to show a double standard in holding meetings. Look, in the last five procedures there were four of BSPs in the manner of conducting, each of his colleagues turned off the microphone. I didn't notice you turn off his microphone. [[Noise and lines.]] What are the criteria to turn off the microphone and take the floor of the opposition? What is spoken of by this tribune, if you like, can be spoken, if you do not like it, should you turn off the microphone of the speaker?! It's not right! Once again, I urge you not to do so with this double standard that you apply when holding the meetings! The other reason I wanted to turn to you. I'm gonna ask the question really to you. Madam President, in relation to the point on vaccines, what is required of us in this House to seal a decision already taken by the Council of Ministers and a commitment made to the European Union by the Bulgarian Government? Who represents the Bulgarian government, Madam President? The Minister of Health? I think it's the Prime Minister. For this reason, we ask you and call on the Prime Minister to come to explain to us, to explain to the Bulgarian people exactly what he has made as a commitment, what is required by the Bulgarian Parliament, to discuss it and to take the right decision. That is why we urged the Prime Minister to come for nothing else. Because it represents the Bulgarian government, it has made the commitments by Bulgaria and you will now propose to us let the Minister of Sport come then, so that we can be more convincing!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u88	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov. In the manner of conduct, Mr. Genov? That's enough. Last time, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u89	In the manner of conduct, Madam President. Madam President, honourable Members! You just said that the Prime Minister is responsible for the common policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u90	That's what the Constitution says.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u91	So you exclude healthcare, which is part of national security, you exclude the vaccination of Bulgarian citizens, with which a vaccine can be saved thousands of lives. It turns out that the Prime Minister is not responsible for health care, for vaccination of Bulgarian citizens, who will receive information about the types of vaccines... We've announced six here, but will it be six, will it be three, what is it worth, how will it be? It was announced that it was free of charge for Bulgarian citizens. Other opinions on this issue have been leaked. So it would be right, Madam President, for you to persuade your colleagues in the ruling majority to vote to listen to the prime minister. And with the microphone stopped, next time I'll buy a megaphone and come to the stands with it, in case you turn off my microphones. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u92	Thank you, Mr. Genov. [[Noise and lines.]] What is it, Mr. Svilensky? [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u93	Madam President, it has become clear... [[Noise and lines.]] It's procedure, it's not the way it's supposed to be. It has become clear that the Prime Minister will not come, it is rejected. [[Noise and lines.]] The opposition has done four or five procedures, Madam President, that is clear. He is incompetent on the subject of................................................. Dear colleagues, however, yesterday, December 2nd, in...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u94	What's the procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u95	... Plevenski has postponed all football matches. [[Noise and lines.]] I propose that the Prime Minister come and inform the Bulgarian MPs why football matches in Bulgaria and Europe are postponed. I think he's competent on this subject, and he won't be mad at us if we invite him to inform us...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u96	All right, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u97	...for football matches in Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u98	I understand the procedure. We continue with the first item of today's agenda. It relates to: A NEW DISCLOSURE OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF 19 NOVEMBER 2020, RETURNED FOR NEW CONFIGURATION WITH SAYN No 247 OF 25 NOVEMBER 2020 OF THE PRESENTATION OF THE REPUBLIC OF THREAT. 101 OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u99	Honourable Members of the National Assembly, Madam President! Your attention: ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Budget and Finance on Decree No 247 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, received on 26 November 2020 for a new discussion of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax, adopted by the National Assembly on 19 November 2020, and the reasons for the Decree. At a meeting held on 2 December 2020, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the President's decree. On the basis of art. 101, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria the President returns for a new discussion in the National Assembly § 93 of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax adopted by the National Assembly on 19 November 2020. In his motives, the President states that the adopted § 93 of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax contradicts fundamental constitutional situations. With the addition of art. 4, para. 1, t. 14 certain contracts are excluded from the scope of the Consumer Credit Act, which unduly restricts consumer rights, including their constitutional right of access to a court for the protection of violated rights and legitimate interests. According to the President introduced by art. 19th para. 7 of the Consumer Credit Act prohibits the court from assessing whether the costs are excessive within the meaning of the Consumer Protection Act and whether they affect good morals within the meaning of the Law on Obligations and Contracts violates the constitutional right to protection, as well as the principle of separation of authorities. The President believes that it is unacceptable for the legislature to place the court's assessment of the compliance of a treaty with the law and morale, depending on the existence of a certain ceiling of the costs of credit agreements. This means that clauses of a contract will not be accepted as minor and will have legal effects if they are within a certain eligible amount of credit agreement costs. In the course of the discussion on the return to the National Assembly for a new discussion, § 93 of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax, the Members of the National Assembly of the Budget and Finance Committee agreed on the following opinion: In the Report for the Second Voting of the Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, No 053-02-53, submitted to the National Assembly on 24 November 2020, there is an adopted proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, establishing a new § 13 in the Transitional and Final Provisions, which shall be reviewed art. 4, para. 1, t. Article 14 19th para. 7 of the Consumer Credit Act. The reasons for this proposal are that the amendments adopted on 19 November 2020 in the Consumer Credit Act were not precise and were not subjected to a broad public debate with the participation of all interested parties. The Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021 was adopted by the National Assembly on 26 November 2020 at 10.50, including the new § 13 of the Transitional and Final Provisions. The Law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act was returned by the President for a new discussion and entered the National Assembly on 26 November 2020 at 14.21 pm after the adoption of § 13 of the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021 and after a change of the provisions challenged by the President in the Law on Consumer Credit (Art. Art. 4 and art. 19. Therefore, at the time of the adoption of the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, without vetoing the President, the legislator adopted the only possible legislative solution and amended the provisions by restoring the legal situation in force. In addition, the fact that the amendments and additions made by § 93 of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax in the Law on Consumer Credit shall enter into force on 1 January 2021. As of 1 January 2021, the amendments to the Law on Consumer Credit made by § 13 of the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021 shall also apply. The legal technique used by the legislator shall not result in the collsion of legal rules and the provisions of § 93 of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax and § 13 of the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021 shall be temporically consistent, as a result of which the legislation in force is restored until 1 January 2021. After the discussion of the Decree, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Budget and Finance Committee proposed to the National Assembly that the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Value Added Tax Act adopted by the National Assembly on 19 November 2020 should be re-established.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u100	Thank you, Lord Ivanov. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u101	Madam President, honourable Members! Firstly, it is noticeable that from the minutes of the meeting of the Budget Committee we did not hear the speeches, how many have voted, how many are they for, how much are they against? There's no discussion. This has become practice. What do you mean?! Secondly, let us briefly explain what this is about. We are talking about starting with the conclusion of the President of the Budget Committee.. Mrs. Stoyanova, who said that today we have to deal with changes in the Law, veto because the bill has not been subject to public discussion. That is, the first reason is systematic, traditional for the ruling violations of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, tabling laws on Tuesday night, voting on Wednesday morning, as a result of which legislation is in a tragic state. Why don't you say that at the moment you are trying to get out of a great scandal, out of an insolent one, from a ruthless lobbying to the poorest Bulgarians, which cannot be linked to corruption? How much money did those who brought in this scandalous bill? What did these multimillionaires receive from the fast-credit companies to reach out to the poorest Bulgarians? Because, honourable colleagues, to go a Bulgarian to use 200, 300, 1000 BGN. A quick loan means that it has not received and cannot receive such a loan from commercial banks due to its difficult financial situation. It is understandable that interest rates on such loans are higher, and should be due to the risk of rapid loans, but such ruthless interest rates, such ruthless fees that you want to introduce, this is absolutely unacceptable. This is genocide on financially the weakest Bulgarians. So, in conclusion, a corruption attempt was made secretly and gently to push weights on the Bulgarian people. Shame and shame! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u102	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I'm sorry, I saw Mr. Panchev. Excuse me, Mr. Panchev. Mr. Panchev has a few words to say, let's give him the opportunity. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Ivanov, let's hear Mr. Panchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u103	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the years of the transition, many people, thousands of Bulgarian citizens, as Mr. Gechev said, poor Bulgarian citizens turned to a financial institution. People who urgently needed a small amount of money did not have the opportunity to secure their request for credit from the banking institutions for decades had established practice, and turned to look for funding through these financial institutions. Until 2014, when colleagues Georgi Kadiev and Georgi Anastasov submitted a proposal to the National Assembly, the annual interest rate was not limited, but since then the National Assembly voted and accepted a maximum of five annual interest rates for these loans. Since these are loans that are without collateral, the companies that provide loans decided that there should be more guarantees outside the annual interest rate, and began to introduce some penalties to the people who receive loans to make sure that they would not be in loss of what they provide for use to those people who need fast loans. The penalties, unfortunately, have become very high in size - 500, 800, 1000 percent, which puts many Bulgarian citizens in unfavorable positions and has reached thousands of lawsuits - timed, which have accumulated more and more money from poor Bulgarian citizens to these companies. Leaded by the idea of finding some reasonable balance between those seeking credit and those providing loans and the amount of penalties, with my friends, colleagues, we decided to make a proposal for which the Commission for Consumer Protection Since we are talking about small amounts, we have therefore decided that one in two times the principal penalty would be acceptable for both borrowers and credit-lenders. In the discussion, we obviously made a mistake. We considered that there should be legal or arbitrage clauses, or we should adopt a clause in which to consider that these fees suppressed are not excessive and do not prejudice good manners. Unfortunately, it prevailed on us to propose, as a legal clause, not to be considered excessive and not to prejudice good manners. I guess this is where we made a mistake. As soon as this decision was voted in the National Assembly, the judges' lobby, the lawyers declared themselves against it and declared themselves against it, and the President vetoed it. I consider it normal that we cancelled this clause a few days ago, but I would like to tell you, honourable Members, that the problem is very serious, there may be a mistake. Every Bulgarian citizen has constitutional rights, but let us not forget the thousands of Bulgarian citizens who need our support. I ask you in the future that we really solve this issue, because we cannot leave the poorest people like this without our protection. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u104	Thank you, dear Mr. Panchev. Is there a line? First line, Mr. Svilenski, second line, Mr. Baychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u105	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Panchev, a few questions and finally one finding. First, you say that this concerns people who need a small amount of money. My question is: how do people who need a small amount of money, you then make them pay back very large amounts of money? At the cost of what is this return of these very large sums of money.. at the cost of diseases, at the cost of psychological, mental disorders, at the cost of broken family and life fates, at the cost of these people who take small amounts of money, then are forced to return large amounts of money?1 You say you're looking for a balance between those who need it and those who give it. I ask: whose account is this balance? There's no way it's not on someone's tab. Is it at the expense of those who need a small amount of money, or for those who need to collect large amounts of interest? You say that thousands of Bulgarian citizens need help. Dear colleagues, will we help the thousands and hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens who need support with quick loans? Mr. Panchev, are you a longtime MP with quick loans to help these people rather than politics, with the care of the people we can make so that they do not need the quick loans, live calmly and receive what they have worked for, what they have received as rights, and what they have lived for over the years? I cannot accept and engage Parliament with such a commitment that it is almost our fault that these people cannot take quick loans. Finally, one more question: who are these friends and colleagues with whom you have submitted these proposals, because for me so far, only you have been identified as an importer. Please say the others who wrote gave ideas and submitted this proposal accordingly! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u106	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Mr. Baychev, come in for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u107	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Panchev, I appeal to you and first of all I want to tell you that the Constitution itself guarantees the rights of the users... precisely this Constitution, thanks to which you are elected, and which you do not like and wanted to change. I would also like to tell you that the European Commission has already opened Criminal Procedure No 2018/4083 against Bulgaria, precisely because national legislation does not provide effective and complete protection for consumers against unfair clauses and violations of their consumer rights. That is, what you are proposing, there has already been a criminal procedure against us and Bulgaria is paying some money. You have also affected the so-called lawyer lobby in Parliament, which I guarantee you there is none, because I am a lawyer myself and no colleague has called for me. What I would like to say, however, is that it is through such catch-ups that, through legal fees, unregulated money can be taken, which will not be from normal commercial activity, but will be other. And I'm giving you an example right now, if you take a loan of 1000 BGN, those costs that you have to pay will be 2000, that'll be 3000. Apart from that, there are judicial costs of issuing an executive list. However, these costs are already strictly fixed. There are legal expenses or by adding interest rates, each person thanks to your offer, which took 1000 BGN, will have to return 4000 BGN. What are you going to tell these people now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u108	Thank you. Mr. Danchev has a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u109	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Panchev, my question is very brief. Have you tried to understand, analyze what is the usual amount of penalty interest that the court at the moment recognises normally in the creditor's normal situation against the poor payer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u110	Thank you, Mr. Danchev. Mr. Panchev, come on in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u111	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Svilenski, once there was an institution in the register, which, when someone needs money, goes, takes two people colleagues for self-protectives, gets the money without banks, without quarrels, and that happens in an hour, in one day. Unfortunately, in banks, people are really hard to get money fast, because especially poor people have nothing to guarantee these funds. So in the project I proposed, the idea was to help people who need fast loans so that they could solve a quick problem. Again, these people pay. I also reply to Mr. Danchev that one interest rate up to 50% is because of the change that happened in 2014, but beyond that, companies impose really serious penalties. My idea was for there to be some acceptable ceiling for both sides. The amount of these funds. We have proposed and I believe that this is really accepted by one size twice in the principal, so that people can not pay too much and companies get something, especially for those 10 or 12 percent who fail in the framework of the contract to recover the money they have taken as a loan. Not everyone pays the penalty, of course. Instead of arbitrage, we thought that it is good to answer Mr. Baychev now, to be able not to consider these loans to be excessive and damaging good morals, because every case which has been filed and you correctly pointed out is related to an additional 1000 BGN, which the consumer has to pay as expenses. We have considered that it is acceptable between the two parties to have an agreement, correct attitude and not to go to court and court cases, so that at least this cost can be avoided as such expenditure, and I have not said in any way about a legal lobby here in Parliament. A truly large group of lawyers have declared themselves against this change, perhaps because there are thousands of cases that are held annually with people who have received loans and have failed to return them in due course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u112	Thank you, dear Mr. Panchev. Any other speeches? I can't see. Now I'm really closing the debate. Please, colleagues, take... Colleagues who are remote are also asking to join us. Colleagues, I re-vote the Law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act adopted by the National Assembly on 19 November 2020. Mrs. Alexandrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u113	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u114	Mr. Toshev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u115	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u116	Mr. Dinev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u117	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u118	Mr. Kolev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u119	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u120	Mrs. Kostadinova?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u121	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u122	Mr. Popov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u123	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u124	Mr. Nunev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u125	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u126	I don't see Mr. Atanasov. He's not on the screen. Vote 188 MPs plus 7 online.. became 195 votes: for 114 plus 7 remote... they became 121, against 74, abstentions. The law has been reacquired. The law will be sent to the President of the Republic for promulgation in the Official Journal of the Republic within seven days of its receipt under art. 101, para. 3 of the Constitution. Let's move on to the next point: SELECTION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL COUNCIL. Mr. Ademov, come and introduce us to the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u127	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am making a procedural proposal in the Chamber to allow Mrs. Zornitsa Rusinova to be admitted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u128	Please vote on the procedure so made. Mr. Popov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u129	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u130	Mr. Toshev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u131	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u132	Mr. Kolev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u133	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u134	Mr. Dinev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u135	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u136	Mrs. Alexandrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u137	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u138	Mrs. Kostadinova?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u139	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u140	Mr. Nunev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u141	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u142	Thank you. They voted 133 MPs and 7 remote. 140: for 132 plus 7 remote.. become 139, against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Invite Mrs. Rusinova to the hall, please. Here you go, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u143	♪ I can't believe on the presentation and hearing of the candidate for Chairman of the Economic and Social Council. The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee at a meeting held on 11 November 2020 held a hearing of proposals by the Council of Ministers for Chairman of the Economic and Social Council under Section IV of the Rules of Procedure for the submission and public disclosure of the documents of the candidate for Chairman of the Economic and Social Council, proposed by the Council of Ministers, its hearing in the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly, hereinafter referred to as the Rules of Procedure. After the opening of the meeting, the Chairman of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Dr. Hasan Ademov recalled the main points of the Rules of Procedure for conducting the hearing. He noted that the requirements of Chapters I, II and III of the Rules of Procedure were complied with, verified the documents submitted and found that the applicant for President of the Economic and Social Council met the relevant requirements for taking up the post for which he was proposed. In connection with Chapter III of the Rules of Procedure, a letter from the President of the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee requested preliminary examination of the applicant under the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. In response was received a letter from the Commission for the disclosure of documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to state security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army, signed by its President Mr. Evtim Kostadinov, from which it is apparent that no data establishing belonging under art. 1 of the special law. By letter to Mrs. Miglena Vezeva, Director of the Human Resources Management Department, in the National Assembly, the President of the Commission requested that an examination be carried out to establish that the candidate for Chairman of the Economic and Social Council was not sentenced to imprisonment for crimes of a general nature. In response, a letter was received that the applicant was not sentenced to prison for crimes of a general nature. It was concluded that the candidate for Chairman of the Economic and Social Council meets the requirements of the Economic and Social Council Act and the Rules of Procedure for taking the relevant position for which it was proposed. In this context, the applicant should be admitted to the hearing held at an open meeting of the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee and broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. As Chairman of the Economic and Social Council, the Council of Ministers proposes Mrs. Zornitsa Dimitrova Rusinova's candidacy. Ms. Zornitsa Rusinova's application was presented by Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mrs. Adriana Stoimenova. In accordance with art. 7, para. 2 of the Law on the Economic and Social Council The National Assembly shall elect a President for the Council. According to the provisions of art. 8, para. 1 The term of office of the Council for President and Members shall be four years old and the same shall have expired further 2016. Decision No 728 of 15 October proposed by the Council of Ministers for Chairman of the Economic and Social Council Ms. Zornitsa Rusinova. The proposed application is agreed and supported by all the groups represented in the Council, including the nationally represented trade unions and employers' organisations, as well as the non-governmental sector group 3 organisations. Zornitsa Rusinova has successfully performed the functions of Minister of Labour and Social Policy between May 2016 and January 2017. As Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy she has been responsible for social inclusion policies, labour market and international activity, as well as for the management of European funds. In this regard, she has coordinated the activities of the Employment Agency and is the managing body of the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development." He has extensive experience at national and international level in conducting negotiations, successfully implementing the mechanisms of social dialogue and social partnership in the conduct of the various policies in the social sphere. Under the leadership of Zornitsa Rusinova were created successful models for management of the Operational Program "Human Resources Development." The programme is recognized among the other EU member states through the two areas of impact, namely the development of reforms in social services and active inclusion in the labour market. Zornitsa Rusinova has successfully implemented coordination on EU issues, including the preparation and implementation of the first Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2018. During the Presidency under her leadership, the team of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy has managed to make significant progress on all legislative and non-legal initiatives in the social sphere. Ms. Rusinova is a Master of International Economic Relations from the University of National and World Economy. She holds a Master's degree in English Philology and English Philology from the Sofia University of St. Kliment Ohridski. She has years of experience in managing programs and projects gained in a UN Development Programme, the American Agency for International Development and the Bulgarian-Swiss Cooperation Programme, which will be useful in the activities of the Economic and Social Council. According to the rules of procedure, the candidate for President of the Economic and Social Council presented her concept. At the beginning of his exhibition Zornitsa Rusinova said she has experience in working with the Economic and Social Council, as well as with representatives of the European Economic and Social Council. He believes that right now our country really needs a strong Economic and Social Council. The Economic and Social Council represents the real civil dialogue that can make the bridge between parliament, between the executive power, between all authorities and the people, so that in the difficult times we live in, our country can deal, firstly, with the pandemic and, secondly, with the severe socio-economic crisis. This civil authority can have a whole new way of interacting with citizens, namely to unite and create the much needed agreement that society needs. For Zornitsa Rusinova it is important that in the three groups working in the Council there is a lot of expertise, which at many times is extremely important in each of the topics of our economic and social life. She believes that the Economic and Social Council should have a much more active participation and contribution in the formation of national positions and in their defence before the European Commission, especially in the following year, where the European Programme for Bulgaria will be implemented. In addition to the debate held at an institutional level between individual governments in the Council and in the European Parliament, the formats available in the European Economic and Social Council, the civil society groups, employers and trade unions can also be a strong platform for defending our national positions and a much stronger voice, because this is the civil parliament at European level. The files, which will have a strong impact on our national positions next year, relate to legislative initiatives for digitalisation, financial instruments, sustainable corporate development and the European pillar for social rights. A plan relating to labour, social economy and green deal policies is to be adopted. Much of the initiatives in the social sphere are related to the new initiative on the Strategy for the Rights of the Child and the European Strategy for Disabled People. The focus of the work of the Economic and Social Council will be the formation of opinions and opinions related to the various elements of Bulgaria's recovery plan over the next few years, as well as the formation of positions on the social and economic measures that will be taken to restore our country from the cod epidemic. Another extremely important role of the Economic and Social Council would be the contribution of civil society to the three groups in implementing the European pillar on social rights. The Economic and Social Council must be the body to make an impartial assessment of the implementation of a ladder. Its role in participating in the European semester can be strengthened because a large part of the measures planned by the governments have a bearing on every single person in Bulgaria. The Economic and Social Council must serve as a much clearer retranslator of the messages of the European pillar on social rights to society and much better communicate the individual principles within what is to be done. With a legislative initiative, the potential of the Economic and Social Council on important topics which concern all parliamentary represented forces in the national parliament and executive power could be better used. The Economic and Social Council must strengthen its relationship with other economic and social councils at international level, the link with the European Economic and Social Council. We need to put in a new way the citizens' awareness of what is the activity of our Council, to have a much stronger information campaign and, of course, to give the platform to the three representative organizations. Zornitsa Rusinova said that if it is supported for a new mandate for President of the Economic and Social Council, it will turn the Council into a real tribune and a real bridge between citizens and the legislative and executive powers. After the presentation of the concept of the activities of the Economic and Social Council, the President of the Commission asked Zornitsa Rusinova a question concerning the consideration of the draft directive on the minimum wage. Does Mrs. Rusinova, if you are elected President of the Economic and Social Council, intend to put this topic before the civil parliament? Can an opinion be issued to assist the institutions, in this case by the Council of Ministers, employers' and trade unions, to make a decision concerning the minimum wage. Zornitsa Rusinova replied that not only in terms of the minimum wage directive, the role of the Economic and Social Council in forming national positions is key for next year. In addition to a position on the minimum wage, a position on the Children's Rights Directive is to be expressed, the National Plan is to be adopted, as well as the European Plan, a position on the implementation of the Social Pillar, initiatives related to digitalisation, green deal and many others. In the discussion were asked questions by the MPs Violeta Jeleva, Hasan Ademov, Nadia Klisurska and Kalin Popovski. Following the end of the discussion with the MPs, the President of the Commission announced that the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy did not receive any questions from NGOs and media, as well as opinions on the proposed candidacy for Chairman of the Economic and Social Council. At the end of the discussion, the Chairman of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy recalled that in relation to Chapter IV, i.e. 8 of the Rules of Procedure the Commission will draw up within the meaning of art. 93, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a report from the hearing and a draft decision for the election of the Chairman of the Economic and Social Council will be attached to it. After the discussion was concluded and on the basis of the hearing, the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee voted on the draft decision to elect the Chairman of the Economic and Social Council. With results: 10 votes (for) and 6 votes (abstentions), the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee proposes to the National Assembly to examine, discuss and vote in accordance with Section V of the Rules of Procedure for the presentation and public disclosure of the documents of the candidate for Chairman of the Economic and Social Council, proposed by the Council of Ministers, his hearing in the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee, as well as the procedure for the election of Mrs. Zornitsa Dimitrova Rusinova as Chairman of the Economic and Social Council. Next, a draft decision to elect the Chairman of the Economic and Social Council.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u144	Read it, Mr. Ademov. Are you going to introduce Mrs. Rusinova?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u145	This is a proposal from the Council of Ministers "the Minister."
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u146	Welcome to Mrs. Sacheva! Here you are, Madam Minister, within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u147	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! By Decision No 728 of 15 October 2020, on a proposal from the Council of Ministers, we propose that Mrs. Zornitsa Rusinova be elected President of the Economic and Social Council. The proposed application is agreed and supported by all groups represented in the Council, including national representative employers and trade unions, as well as representatives of civil society. Ms. Rusinova has successfully performed the functions of Minister of Labour and Social Policy from May 2016 to January 2017. During this period she ended the long weekends of four days and the work on Saturday. Encourage working mothers of children within one year to return to work early, receiving 50 per 100 of their compensation plus the salary with which they actually receive a higher pension. He raised the aid of children with over 90% disabilities up to BGN 930. [[Noise.]] As Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy within three governments since 2010, she has been responsible for policies on the labour market, social inclusion, European issues and international cooperation, as well as the management of European funds. She has coordinated the activities of the Employment Agency, the State Agency for Child Protection, the Social Assistance Agency and the Agency for Quality Control of Social Services and has led the Managing Authority of the Operational Programme. [[Noise.]] It has also implemented coordination on EU issues, including preparations, and the implementation of the first Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2018 within the framework of labour and social policy policies. [[Noise.]] Ms. Rusinova has extensive experience at national and international level in conducting negotiations, successfully implementing the mechanisms of social dialogue and social partnership in conducting the various policies in the social sphere. She's a master of international economic relations. He holds a master's degree in Bulgarian philology and English philology. He has many years of experience in managing programs and projects acquired in the UN Development Programme... [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u148	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u149	... The American Agency for International Development and the Bulgarian-Swiss Cooperation Programme, which will be useful for the activities of the Economic and Social Council. Ms. Rusinova has all the qualities and expertise to be a successful Chairman of the Economic and Social Council.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u150	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sacheva. I'm opening the debate. Statements? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I'll read: Project! DECISION on the election of the President of the Economic and Social Council The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to art. 7, para. 2 of the Economic and Social Council Act HAS DECIDED He elected Zornitsa Dimitrova Rusinova as Chairman of the Economic and Social Council. Please join the coworkers who vote remotely. Mrs. Alexandrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u151	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u152	I don't see Mr. Toshev. Mr. Dinev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u153	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u154	Mr. Popov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u155	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u156	Mr. Nunev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u157	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u158	Mr. Kolev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u159	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u160	Vote 75 MPs in the House, 5 vote remotely.. becomes 80 MPs. For 72 plus 5 remotes, there are 77 votes in total for, not against, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Congratulations, Mrs. Rusinova! Good luck to you. Would you like to say a few words? Here you go. I hope you'll keep it short, because we have a lot of work to do.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u161	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you for your confidence. I believe that with your joint work from now on you, as representatives of all political forces, I, as President of the Economic and Social Council, which unites the civil parliament, the people of Bulgaria, the workers, employers, business, civil society organizations, will be able to jointly help so that Bulgaria becomes an economically stable and fair state. A great challenge lies ahead of us everything that is happening with the economic crisis, and I believe that with a strong Economic and Social Council we will all be able to turn our country into an economically stable and fair Bulgaria. Thank you for your trust and I believe we will work together. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u162	Good luck, Mrs. Rusinova! We're going to point three for today: THE SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE ENLARGEMENT OF THE Importers "Krasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs on 13 November 2020, adopted on the first vote on 26 November 2020. Who's gonna introduce him to us? Mrs. Atanasova, the stands are yours, or how was the microphone yours? [[Radio.]] Let's be a little more positive, we can't just be scandals.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u163	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, I propose a report on a bill for amendment and supplement to the Law on the Execution of Punishment and Detention. The Law on the Execution of Punishments and Detentions is amended and supplemented by the Law on the Implementation of Punishment and Detention. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of the division. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 14 and the proposal made by the National Representative Krasimir Tsipov and proposes the following version: ......... 14......................................................................... In the Law on the Commercial Register and the Register of Non-Profit Legal Entities (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 25 the following additions are made: 1. In para. The third sentence shall be created:........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2. In para. 4 in the second sentence after the words "the communication', the applicant and the agency shall be added. 3. The creation of para. 6: (6) In the proceedings the court shall award costs to the parties under the order of the Civil Procedure Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u164	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the name of the Law; the text of the importer for paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12; the text of the importer for the name of the subdivision; the text of the importer for § 13; and the version of Paragraph 14 of the Commission Report. Mrs. Alexandrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u165	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u166	Mr. Toshev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u167	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u168	Mr. Dinev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u169	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u170	Mr. Kolev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u171	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u172	Mr. Popov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u173	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u174	Mr. Nunev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u175	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u176	Vote 76 MPs in the House plus 6 remote.. becomes 82. For 76 plus 6 remotes, 82 voted for, without objection and abstention. The proposals have been accepted. Moving on to the next point: SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE HEALTH LAW. Mrs. Daritkova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u177	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On 13 November 2020, submitted by Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova on 20 November 2020, adopted on the first vote on 20 November 2020. "Renewal and Supplement to the Health Act. " The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. According to § 1, there is a proposal of the MP Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 61 the following 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: . (1) Individuals with anthrax, brucellosis, smallpox, viral haemorrhagic fever, diphtheria, ebola, yellow fever, typhoid fever, malaria, poliomyelitis, severe acute respiratory syndrome, bacillus divisional tuberculosis, cholera, plague and COVID-19 shall be subject to mandatory isolation. 2. In para. 2 sentence first the words "poisons" with contagious disease under para. The following are replaced by the persons referred to in paragraph 1 (a) and (b) of paragraph 1 (b) of this Article: 1.................................................................................. 3. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: . (3) The Minister of Health, on a proposal from the Chief State Health Inspector, may order the compulsory isolation of persons suffering from and infecting infectious diseases outside those referred to in para. 1 as well as mandatory quarantine of the contact persons, based on an assessment of the existing epidemic risk of the spread of the relevant infectious disease. 4. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: (4) The mandatory isolation of a person under para. 1 or 3 shall be carried out with a prescription issued by or authorised by the Director of the Regional Health Inspectorate concerned. 5. Alinea 5 is canceled. 6. Alinea 6 is amended as follows: . (6) The required quarantine of a person under para. 2 or 3 shall be carried out with a prescription issued by or authorised by the Director of the Regional Health Inspectorate concerned. 7. Paragraph 7 is amended as follows: The Minister of Health, on a proposal from the Chief State Health Inspector, by order, shall determine the period of compulsory isolation under para. 1 or 3 and the mandatory quarantine under para. 2 or 3 in accordance with the epidemiological risk of the spread of the relevant contagious disease under para. 1 or 3. 8. In para. 8 words. 2 and 3 and 3 shall be replaced by......................................................................................................... 2 or 3s and after the word "Development', the amount shall be added and the amount shall be added with a prescription issued by the Director or by the Deputy Director of the Regional Health Inspectorate concerned. 9. In para. 9 the words "six and six' are replaced by "six and eight'. 10. A new para is being created. 10? 13: . (10) For the prescription under para. 4, 6 or 8 per person by para. Articles 1, 2 or 3 shall be reported in accordance with Article 1. 18a, para. 1, 2, 3, para. 4 t. 1 and para. 8 of the Administrative Procedure Code or in any of the following ways by: 1. oral notification of a mobile or fixed telephone number designated by the person, which shall be certified in writing with the signature of the official who made it, and the written verification shall be attached to the file; 2. sending an electronic or short text message to an e-mail address or mobile phone number specified by the person. (11) In the cases referred to in para. 10, t. 1 and 2 on the face under para. 1, 2 or 3 is reported to be able to receive the prescription in person after the expiry of the isolation period, respectively, of the quarantine. Within the period of isolation, respectively, the quarantine prescription can only be obtained by authorised by the person under para. 1, 2 or 3 person. (12) The provisions of para. 10, t. 1 shall be deemed to have been served from the date of oral notification and under para. 10, t. 2 "When, within 24 hours of dispatch, the person confirms receipt of the message by sending back an electronic or short text message to an e-mail address or mobile phone number specified by the regional health inspection concerned. (13) When in the term under para. 12 the person did not send confirmation of receipt of the message under para. 10, t. 2, the communication shall be carried out in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 2. 18a, para. 1, 2, 3, para. 4 t. 1 and para. 8 of the Administrative Procedure Code or by oral notification under para. 10, t. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 11. So far, the Al. 10 becomes para. 14 and in it the words.. 5 and 6... 6 and 8............................................................................................................... 12. So far, the Al. 11 becomes para. 15 and in it the words.. 5 and 6... 6 and 8............................................................................................................... 13. So far, the Al. 12 becomes para. 16. 14. They're creating an al. 17 and 18: The conditions and procedure for carrying out the mandatory isolation of a person under para. 1 or 3, the mandatory quarantine of a person under para. 2 or 3 and the assessment of the existing epidemic risk under para. 3 shall be determined by the ordinance referred to in Article 3. 60, para. 5. (18) With the ordinance under para. The criteria for determining the contact persons under para. 17 shall also be laid down. 2 and 3 in accordance with the specifics of the spread of the relevant contagious disease under art. 61, para. 1, including epidemic potential, infectiousness and path of transmission of the pathogen and others.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u178	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the name of the Law and the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 1. Vote 84 MPs: for 83, against no, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u179	Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 2: ..................................................... Article 3 is Art. 61a. (1) In order to prevent the spread of infectious diseases under art. 61, para. 1 or 3 mandatory isolation of persons suffering from or carrying contagious disease under art. 61, para. 1 or 3 may be carried out in a hospital care facility. (2) The compulsory isolation in a hospital facility for hospital care of a person under para. 1 shall be carried out with a prescription issued by the Director or by the Deputy Director of the relevant Regional Health Inspectorate on a proposal from the treating physician or the doctor who directed the person under para. 1 for hospitalization, based on an assessment of the existing epidemic risk of the spread of the relevant contagious disease under art. 61, para. One or three. (3) The Minister of Health shall establish a model of the prescription under para. 2. (4) For the prescription under para. 2 per person by para. 1 shall be reported in accordance with Article 1. 61, para. 10. (5) The Prescription under para. 2 is subject to prior implementation. (6) The Prescription under para. 2 shall be subject to appeal before the administrative court concerned under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. (7) The conditions and procedure for carrying out the compulsory isolation in a hospital hospital for hospital care of a person under para. 1 and the assessment of the existing epidemic risk under para. 2 shall be determined by the ordinance referred to in Article 2. 61, para. 17................................................ According to § 2 there is a proposal of the MP Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 2 be rejected. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. According to § 4, there is a proposal of the MP Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ Article 215 is amended as follows: Art. 215. (1) Person suffering from or contagious disease under art. 61, para. 1 or 3, which refuses or terminates the execution of the mandatory insulation under art. 61, para. 4 or under art. 61a, para. 2, is punished with a fine of 5000 BGN. (2) Person under para. 1 refused to perform mandatory isolation under para. 1, as well as face under para. 1 which interrupts the execution of mandatory insulation under para. 1 shall be brought by force with the assistance of the authorities of the Ministry of Interior at the request of the authorities of the state health control, the head of the hospital care facility, the doctor or the doctor who directed the person to hospitalization.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u180	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 2 with a text on the Commission Report; the Commission's proposal to reject § 2 by importer; the text of the importer for § 3 supported by the Commission; and the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 4. Vote 88 MPs: 87, no, abstention 1. The texts put to the vote have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u181	According to § 5, there is a proposal of the MP Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall not support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version of § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 215a, para. 1 after the word "Statutes', the amount of money is added. According to § 6 there is a proposal of the MP Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 6 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u182	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 5 and the Commission's proposal for the rejection of § 6 by importer. Vote 88 MPs: 87, no, abstention 1. The texts have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u183	'Concluding provisions'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. According to § 7 there is a proposal of the MP Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 7 be rejected. According to § 8 there is a proposal of the MP Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 8 be rejected. According to § 9 there is a proposal of the MP Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9, which shall become § 6: ........................................................... In the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 216a: Art. 216a. (1) In the event of a declared emergency because of the epidemic spread of infectious diseases under art. 61, para. 1 or 3 of the Health Act or in the case of declared exceptional epidemic situation due to epidemic spread of contagious disease under art. 61, para. 1 of the Health Act The authorisation to carry out parallel imports shall be issued within 14 days of the date of submission of the documentation under art. 215 at the D.E.A.L. (2) Where the IAL requires additional documentation from the applicant, the period under para. 1 stops running until the requested information is received. (3) Where the IAL requires from the regulatory authority of the Member State from which parallel imports are made, information relating to the issue of the marketing authorisation of the imported medicinal product, the period under para. 1 is extended by 14 days. (4) When within the term under para. 3 The IAL did not receive the requested documentation, the procedure for granting authorisation for parallel imports into the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria is terminated. (5) The permits issued for carrying out parallel import under para. 1 shall be published on the website of the EAL on the Internet. (6) The authorisation to carry out parallel import under para. 1 shall be valid until the date of the cancellation of the emergency situation, respectively of the exceptional epidemic situation under para. 1. (7) The authorisation to carry out parallel imports shall be suspended automatically as from the date of the cancellation of the emergency situation, respectively, of the exceptional epidemic situation under para. 1. (8) Upon termination of the authorisation to carry out parallel import under para. 7 the medicinal product may be sold until the quantities available in the country are exhausted but not more than six months from the date of termination. (9) In the cases under para. 1 The National Council of Prices and Reimbursement of Medicinal Products shall rule within 14 days to confirm/registered at a price of medicinal products for which authorisation for parallel imports has been obtained as from the date of submission of an application under the ordinance under art. 261a, para. 5. 2. Article 9 is inserted in Chapter 9. 217e: Art. 217e. During a declared state of emergency due to the epidemic spread of infectious diseases under art. 61, para. 1 or 3 of the Health Act or of declared exceptional epidemic situation due to epidemic spread of contagious disease under art. 61, para. 1 of the Health Act and within three months of their cancellation by order of the Minister of Health it may be temporarily prohibited to export medicinal products from the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria for which a shortage has been found in the territory of the country to meet the health needs of the population. 3. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 284i: Art. 284i. who has carried out export of medicinal products included in the order under art. 217e is punished with a fine of 50 000 to 100 000 BGN, and if the same infringement is repeated with a fine of 100 000 to 150 000 BGN. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 291, para. 1 words.............................................................................. 284d s. 284sz " are replaced Proposal of the MPs Alexander Nenkov and Iskren Veselinov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 7: .................................................... In the Law on Civil Registration (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 55 the following amendments and additions are made: "1." A new para is being created. 3: . (3) During a declared state of emergency due to the epidemic spread of infectious diseases under art. 61, para. 1 or 3 of the Health Act or of declared exceptional epidemic situation due to epidemic spread of contagious disease under art. 61, para. 1 of the Health Act the term under art. 54, para. 1 for the drawing up of a death certificate shall be extended by 14 days. 2. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 4. Proposal of the National Representative Yavor Notev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Yavor Notev, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 8: ................................................................................... In the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, and for overcoming the consequences (promise, SG No. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). In § 7 of the transitional and final provisions after the words The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10, which shall become § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u184	Thank you. Statements? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision; the Commission's proposal to reject § 7 by importer; the Commission's proposal to reject § 8 by importer; the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 9, which becomes § 6; the Commission's proposal to create a new § 7; the proposal to create a new § 8 by importer; and the two paragraphs are with a text on the Commission Report; and the text of the importer for § 10, which becomes § 9. Please, voting mode. Vote 88 MPs: 87, no, abstention 1. The texts put to the vote have been adopted. We are continuing with a next item on the agenda - Draft decision to approve the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in those concluded by the European Commission and the manufacturers of medicines - listed, preliminary agreements for the purchase of vaccines in relation to the pandemic of COVID-19, as well as the taking of action for the conclusion of a contract for the purchase of vaccines by a manufacturer. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Procedure Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u185	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm doing a five-day extension procedure on the Code of Commercial Shipping until next Tuesday, 8 December 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u186	Thank you. I shall put the proposal to the vote. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Procedure? Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u187	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, I would like to interrupt the meeting for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u188	Thank you. I'm adjourned for 30 minutes. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u189	Dear colleagues, we continue with the eighth point of our work programme: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO APPROVAL THE PARTICIPATION OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA IN THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION AND THE MANUFACTURERS OF MEDICINAL PRODUCTS ASTRAZENECA, SANOFI and PFIZER INC. AND BIONTECH MANUFACTURING GMBHAND PRE-COMMITMENTS FOR BUYING VACSINES IN CONNECTION WITH THE PANDAEMIA OF COVID-19, AND THE PRE-COMMITMENT OF ACTS TO CROSS THE AGREEMENT FOR THE BUILDING OF VACSINES BY JANSSEN PHARMACEUTICA NV. Mrs Daritkova, you have the floor to present the report to the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u190	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a draft decision approving the Republic of Bulgaria's participation in those concluded by the European Commission and drug manufacturers AstraZeneca, Sanofi and Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech Manufacturing GmbHand preliminary agreements for the purchase of vaccines in relation to the CoVID-19 pandemic and the taking of action for the conclusion of a contract for the purchase of vaccines by Janssen Pharmaceutica NV, No 002-03-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 November 2020. At its extraordinary meeting held on 2 December 2020, the Health Commission examined and discussed Draft Decision approving the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Commission's and drug manufacturers AstraZeneca, Sanofi and Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech Manufacturing GmbHand preliminary agreements for the purchase of vaccines in relation to the CoVID-19 pandemic, as well as taking action to conclude a contract for the purchase of vaccines by Janssen Pharmaceutica NV, No 002-03-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 November 2020. The meeting was attended by the Minister of Health Dr. Kostadin Angelov, representatives of the Ministry of Health and word organizations in the field of health. The draft decision and the reasons for it were presented by Prof. Angelov, who informed the MPs that the Agreement, by which the European Commission is empowered to propose to the participating Member States and to conclude, on their behalf, preliminary agreements for the purchase of vaccines with their producers in order to provide the Member States with vaccines to combat the pandemic of COVID-19 71 from 2020, and is in force for the Republic of Bulgaria from 12 August 2020. Under the Agreement, the European Commission is proposing to the Member States to conclude two types of preliminary agreements on their behalf. The first gives the right to acquire doses of vaccines according to art. 3 of the Agreement and the second obligation to acquire doses of vaccines according to art. 4 of the Agreement. At present, there is one proposed agreement allowing for the acquisition of vaccines, and all other agreements bind the Member States with an obligation to acquire the quantities of vaccines laid down on the basis of a percentage of the population. At present, the European Commission has already negotiated with a total of seven companies, of which there are three agreements concluded with AstraZeneca, Sanofi and Janssen Pharmaceutica NV and is about to conclude a fourth with Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech. Vaccines are divided into 3 main categories: adenovirus, antigenic "Spike protein," and RNA vaccines. Adenovirus vaccines are developed by companies AstraZeneca and Janssen Pharmaceutica NV, antigen vaccines are developed by companies Novavax and Sanofi Pasteur, and RNA vaccines are developed by companies CureVac, BioNTech and Moderna. Minister Angelov explained that two of the vaccines require storage at temperatures above minus 75°C and have a very special storage and application regime, which will require the need to build a special logistics for this type of vaccine, including the provision of minus refrigeration facilities with temperature monitoring, as well as the conduct of procedures and trainings by the Member States to ensure the safe and lawful application of the vaccine. He added that there are no such refrigeration facilities available in our country at national level In view of the conditions for storage and administration of the solution for injection, it will be necessary to organise a rapid recovery of each open vaccine vial, including by determining individual hours only for its administration, prior appointment of hours to willing persons and others. In view of the information previously provided by the European Commission regarding the developed vaccines contained in the portfolio approved by the European Commission, with a report to the Council of Ministers, exh. No 03-08-1469/02.09.2020, the Ministry of Health has proposed our country to request participation in all categories of vaccines The vaccines developed by pharmaceutical companies are in different stages of clinical trials and are expected to be authorised at different times. In case of a positive opinion, the European Medicines Agency will be able to issue a marketing authorisation under a centralised procedure and it is expected to be issued under a condition in accordance with European legislation on medicinal products. The delivery of all vaccines will be possible after obtaining a marketing authorisation and the European Commission has estimated information on the planned approval possibilities and the delivery stages of the vaccines. On the basis of the Preliminary Purchase Agreement, the European Commission shall instruct the contractor to undertake to produce and deliver priority doses of vaccines to be ordered by the participating Member States at a price and under conditions, including a period agreed under the Agreement. Minister Angelov pointed out that at present the Republic of Bulgaria has declared participation in the contracts with producers of two of the developed categories of vaccines: AstraZeneca On 18 November 2020, the 5-day period provided for the explicit refusal of participation in the Pfizer Biontech Vaccine Agreement expired. As regards the adenovirus vaccine of Janssen Pharmaceutica NV, with a report to the Council of Ministers with exc. No 03-08-1685/14.10.2020 The Ministry of Health has proposed for approval refusing to be included in the Agreement for prior purchase with the pharmaceutical company Janssen Pharmaceutica. By letter No 99-00-792/14.10.2020 to the European Commission, Bulgaria stated an explicit refusal of inclusion in the Agreement on the purchase of vaccine by the manufacturer of medicinal products Janssen Pharmaceutica NV. In view of the pan-European vision for ensuring equal access to vaccines to the citizens of the European Union at its meeting, the Council of Ministers approved a protocol decision to take action by Bulgaria to provide supplies from the vaccine offered by the pharmaceutical company Janssen Pharmaceutica NV. The legal mechanism for receiving doses of this vaccine will be implemented through an agreement with another Member State to request and to provide Bulgaria with the requested quantities of the vaccine at the same price and under the same conditions that would have been achieved when participating in the Agreement. In conclusion, Professor Angelov stressed that the preliminary agreements provide for the possibility under certain conditions for participating countries to donate, as well as to resold quantities of vaccines to other countries or public institutions with the consent of the contractor. The sale should be at the price paid for the vaccine. If resale is carried out to any third country, the participating country which resells doses shall have an obligation to reimburse the European Commission the advance payment for a dose paid by the Commission to the contractor. During the discussion the Chairman of the Committee on Health Dr. Daniela Daritkova made proposals for editorials aimed at clarifying the text of the draft decision and to indicate the legal and factual basis for its adoption, namely art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to the Law on ratification of the Agreement, by which the European Commission is authorised to propose to the participating Member States and to conclude on their behalf preliminary agreements for the purchase of vaccines - Advance Purpose Agreement, with their producers in order to provide Member States with vaccines in the fight against the pandemic of COVID-19, published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 71 of 2020. It was proposed, in the name of the decision, that the word "medicines" be replaced by "medicines" and after the words "supplied" and "supplied" to be replaced by "medicines" and in the text of the decision that the word "supplied" should be replaced by "supplied" in the text of the decision. The Members of the National Assembly unanimously supported the proposed amendments, which should be reflected in the text of the draft decision under consideration. On the basis of the vote on the following results, the Committee on Health supports, in principle, the draft decision approving the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the AstraZeneca, Sanofi and Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech Manufacturing GmbHand preliminary agreements for the purchase of vaccines in relation to the CoVID-19 pandemic, as well as actions for the conclusion of a contract for the purchase of vaccines by Janssen Pharmaceutica NV, No 002-03-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 November 2020, and proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the draft decision on the editorial amendments adopted by the Commission as follows: Project! DECISION approving the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the preliminary agreements concluded by the European Commission and the manufacturers of medicinal products AstraZeneca, Sanofi and Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech Manufacturing GmbHand for the purchase of vaccines in relation to the CoVID-19 pandemic and the taking of action for the conclusion of a contract for the purchase of vaccines by Janssen Pharmaceutica NV The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to the Law on ratification of the Agreement, by which the European Commission is empowered to propose to the participating Member States and to conclude on their behalf preliminary agreements for the purchase of vaccines ( 71 from 2020) HAS DECIDED Approves the proposed participation of the Republic of Bulgaria by the Council of Ministers in the preliminary agreements concluded by the European Commission and the manufacturers of medicinal products AstraZeneca, Sanofi and Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech Manufacturing GmbHand for the purchase of vaccines in relation to the pandemic of COVID-19, and takes action to conclude a contract for the purchase of vaccines by Janssen Pharmaceutica NV;
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u191	Thank you. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Mrs. Anastasova the mask, please! Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u192	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! First of all, I would like to congratulate the people with disabilities today, this part of the Bulgarian citizens, whom I think we are obliged to wish them to be above all healthy and to deal with all the obstacles their lives offer. Dear colleagues, today we are looking at a point that begs the question in me: is there a place in the Bulgarian Parliament? Even more literally, information leaked minutes ago about the actions of the Austrian state, of Austria. There today the health authorities have offered the government a vaccination plan that accepts it. What is the role of the government? It is not to discuss the vaccination plan and the medical part, but to ensure the logistics, the corresponding funds and commitments that are needed. Therefore, I suggest that we do not talk about the medical part of the problem, all the more so we see that it is the result of discussions by the specialists, and not the narrow specialists. But there are a few questions today that we can't help but mention. First of all, yesterday's government adopted.. nine months after the start of the pandemic, the Plan to deal with it, nine months, and when we proposed it, they ended their patience, with a solution and the deadline for the decision was exceeded. On Friday, tomorrow, the government convinces us that they will adopt a vaccination plan. Again, the Bulgarian state administration follows the events. The question we can ask is: why and how was the participation of the Bulgarian state determined, which is within the powers of the Bulgarian government, in these negotiations with the structures of the European Parliament, which undoubtedly have a good idea.. ensuring the possibility of vaccination of all Bulgarian citizens who would like to use this method to prevent the pandemic with the COVID-19; how have the necessary number of vaccines of the different types been calculated when the vaccination plan is missing; what are the specific technological parameters of each of the vaccines? And in the end today, we have not been able to find in the public domain the Plan to deal with the pandemic, I hope that tomorrow we will be able to find the vaccination plan, but we needed it today before entering this point so that we can discuss all this. And one question that I cannot not put: how is the Bulgarian national interest protected? For several days now, the director of the Institute of Microbiology has constantly made statements that her institute is ready with the technological plan for producing a Bulgarian vaccine. Why does the Bulgarian government not include the Bulgarian state firm Bulbio 100%, in these European Council-protective companies that can produce a CIVID-19 vaccine, and they will receive the appropriate funding to support their development? I think the Bulgarian Institute of Microbiology is a world-renowned authority. They have all the opportunities to get involved in this process and cannot be sought from all over the world, and now not be included in this common plan to save the European Union community. To these and many other questions we should have received answers before considering this point, which, once again, I repeat, I think there is no place in the Bulgarian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u193	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. We continue with the speeches. Mrs. Jaffer? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u194	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! Thank you for calling me to speak. I'll take that right. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today the National Assembly is expected to legitimise a draft decision submitted by the Council of Ministers, although the executive has sufficient power to participate in an agreement, to take a decision. We, with a change in the extraordinary legislation, gave them that right. Today, however, when a person of a horse dies at 17 seconds, the subject of whether vaccines bring that hope back to normal life is extremely relevant. We think there's some data, but it's not enough. There is a need to make decisions that are scientifically justified and justified. That is why we believe that, in the absence of specific treatment, which has not been found until now, vaccines, good old vaccines, will bring that hope back again. It is clear, however, that a very good analysis must be made of how effective they are and how safe they are. What do we know so far? We know that seven companies are working and have already achieved successes, three contracts have been concluded, the signing of one more is likely. We know that refrigerators are needed, that any vial that is open must be used. However, there are many questions to which, including our experts, our leading experts in the field of epidemiology and infectious diseases say that there is no answer. They insist, first of all, an hour rather to get acquainted with the scientific files on the vaccines offered, because there are questions to which everyone is waiting for an answer. Okay, it has already been stated that first those who are medical professionals, vulnerable groups on the front, will be vaccinated, only they need to clarify who the side actions are, what immunity will be created for the homoral or cellular, for how long. Secondly, what will be done with the patients? Are they going to be tested for antibodies first because it turns out that some of them have antibodies and others don't, including a large number of medical professionals have already become ill? In literature, there are conflicting statements that are mutually exclusive. First it was said, for example, that asymptomatics do not have antibodies, then it was published in leading editions, that oligosymptoms have more antibodies than others. What is the immunogen in these vaccines, what is the result? Is the lipoprotein that is being said to be the real immunogen, for example, that is used in some of the vaccines, because for the first time will be used with this new technology? How is the immune reaction triggered, for example, and what are the contraindications? Will they be the traditional ones that we know about, for example, liver and kidney failure, acute infection, autoimmune diseases? Will these be standard contraindications, contraindications to other vaccines? All questions that need to be answered scientifically. I want to declare that, despite these remarks, we are convinced supporters of vaccine prophylaxis as a means that has saved many lives over the years. However, we are aware that since 1796, honourable Members, with the first vaccine, the first antivaccinal moods arise. I have to tell you, for example, that there is evidence that 1820 more protests are starting in England, that, by inoculating themselves, they are taking people's civil rights. These are moods that we face and are about to face. Therefore, the point of considering this Project for a solution for us is to focus attention and efforts in this direction, because the vaccine is hope, but it must be very calmly and clearly explained why we aim for a more serious coverage of the population. As regards the decision proposed by the National Assembly today, we are asked, firstly, to approve our participation in the preliminary agreements already concluded by the European Commission for the purchase of vaccine and, secondly, to take action to conclude a contract for the purchase of vaccine by another manufacturer. The question is often asked: why is it required to adopt such decisions, given that experience shows that there may be several reasons? First of all, transfer of liability, second place, reinsurance and, third place, ambiguity. Most often in the present case it is about all three factors that influence. That's what we asked at the Health Commission meeting yesterday. Professor Angelov replied that they submitted this draft decision to inform the people's representation better. However, it is clear that at different times different companies will receive the marketing authorisation, regardless of the single European portfolio. Needs more medical information, needs a very serious coordinated logistics action. We hope that the next coordination council that has been set up will do the job, but we need to involve the medical community and experts in forming a sufficiently good explanatory campaign to make people an informed choice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u195	Thank you, Dr. Jaffer. - What's the line? You have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u196	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! At today's meeting, you will be overwhelmed by many questions. One remark to you. Since you've been elected Minister, I don't recall having any blitz control to ask you questions. And yesterday at the extraordinary meeting we could give a large part of these questions, which are now being asked to you to be asked and to give clarity to both the MPs and the Bulgarian people, and not late in the evening to give a briefing, from which we understand that after nine months of our insistence you have adopted the Action Plan of the State during an epidemic and will present a vaccination plan. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Don't you think that today's debate should have been conducted along with this vaccination plan, to tell the truth to the Bulgarian people? The report, which Dr Daritkova read, made it clear that the European Union is negotiating with seven companies so far approved 4, we have refused one. If we are wrong, are we not wrong now in the decision? We must return it to this company to sign a contract and it will deliver vaccines to Bulgaria. What if the European Commission accepts the other three companies, are we going to debate this again? Is it not a mandate given to the ministry to do this work and not to engage in Parliament with this, especially that it starts to speak in certain, large countries like Germany, the European Union itself says to slow down the pace of introduction of vaccines and the start of vaccination of people. There are ambiguities, science is not of the same opinion, politicians are not of the same opinion. What is Bulgaria doing? Aren't we in a hurry with this decision? Accept the vaccination plan, come out to share it if you have to a few extraordinary meetings of the Health Commission, and then make these decisions. In the end, as they say, we are not a rubber stamp to make one full of vague decisions. And the other thing I want to say: I am interested in the true number of vaccines that Bulgaria has negotiated for all three types of vaccines, one requiring the number to be double. There is talk in the public domain, and you stopped talking about the order of 13 million, provided there is a sociological study that only 40% of the Bulgarian population will be vaccinated voluntarily. The rest of Bulgaria does not want. What about these vaccines that we don't use, just from this vaccine? What about the others when you ordered them? After all, how much will this cost the Bulgarian people? That's what I'm interested in as an answer, because you're going to spend a public resource on something. After all, where will the rest go and who will store these vaccines, which on top also require special storage? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u197	Thank you, Mr. Timchev. - What's the line? I can't see. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Taskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u198	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Professor, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues! Unfortunately, we all know that there is no specific treatment for the coronavirus at this time. We treat complications, not rarely severe, and we really lose people who can still live. At the moment, the only possibility of the world mind, of the world's health thought, is to have the opportunity to preserve those people who have the right to live yet and not to die from a nasty virus. It's the vaccine. But, ladies and gentlemen, let us not forget the doctors here will confirm that the vaccine is prevention and not treatment. In order to be adequate to the need for the effect we want to achieve, it must be done when possible. I don't know if it's appropriate in the conditions of a pandemic when we don't really know who's healthy, who's sick, who's a healthy virus carrier, or if it's unsymptoms-free virus carrier. Secondly, we still don't know and the whole of Europe doesn't know which vaccine we're going to use. And thirdly, we all know that our society is really divided about vaccination and we should not be imperative in this. We must make it clear and make it clear to our Bulgarian citizens that the vaccine will be free and the vaccine will be optional. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u199	Thank you, Mr. Taskov. - What's the line? I can't see. We continue with the speeches. I can't see. Procedure? Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u200	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! The procedure is to ask the Minister, before closing the debates, to answer the questions that have been asked. Perhaps other questions will arise so that a discussion can really happen. Please also extend the group's time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u201	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. We'll give it a chance if the Minister wants to answer some questions. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u202	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable Members! I have always believed in the voice of reason and in this Chamber I have always heard the most faithful and important statements that Bulgarian citizens should hear. You said the vaccine was hope. Yes, the vaccine is hope. It is believed by all the people of the world that it can deliver us from what came upon us in early March. However, I will not allow the National Assembly to accuse the Ministry of Health and tell lies. The first lie is that the plan for the Covid-19 pandemic was adopted nine months from the beginning of the pandemic. That doesn't answer the truth. The truth is this: the government adopted a plan for the pandemic according to the National Assembly decision and this plan is generic because it is the decision of the National Assembly. The plan for the COVID-19 pandemic was presented to you by this tribune by me and I clearly and accurately explained that we are working on a clear plan and dealing with it. The plan we voted on has nothing to do with the Covid-19 pandemic. It's a plan to deal with the country's pandemics. Regarding the vaccination plan. This plan, which you are all talking about from this tribune, is already in place. This plan will be presented tomorrow to the Council of Ministers and will be voted on. This plan has been working for more than 10 days. Under this plan, all target groups that are entitled to start the entire vaccination program against COVID-19 will be clearly and accurately described. As regards issues related to specific parameters of vaccines. I have repeatedly stated that the vaccine will come to Bulgaria and will be applied to Bulgarian citizens when it is authorised by the European Medicines Agency, and that in medical terms means that it will have a Summary of Product Characteristics. In this Summary of Product Characteristics you will find all the answers to the questions you are asking. Without a Summary of Product Characteristics, we cannot definitely answer the questions you are asking, because they are clear only to the manufacturer. And then, when the regulatory authority carries out the registration, such a summary will be a fact and then we will be able to answer all these questions. It's the same with the side effects. All vaccines have undergone a test period that is characteristic of each vaccine. Yeah, that term was cut short. This is precisely the role of the European regulatory authority. The European Medicines Agency, which must protect the interests of all European citizens. In terms of the information campaign. The information campaign is foreseen at the moment the vaccine came to Bulgaria, and when we have the short characteristics of the product, so that we can explain clearly and precisely to the Bulgarian citizens when, who and how has the right to be vaccinated and what are the possibilities for vaccination of one target group or another? In terms of blitz control. That's a lie, too. I've been on blitz control at the Health Commission. I've been in blitz control, answered your questions, and I'll keep doing it. I have repeatedly stated that the doors of the Ministry of Health and personally the minister's office are open to every Member of the National Assembly, at any given time, and I am ready to answer any question you ask. Regarding whether or not we were wrong when we refused the vaccine. At the time we did this, it was Janssen's vaccine, which is an adenovirus vaccine that is identical to the vaccine that AstraZeneca offers. When we did this, AstraZeneca was underway to register the vaccine and deliver it as the first possible vaccine for European citizens. The moment came when we realized that AstraZeneca temporarily stopped the testing of their vaccine due to adverse reactions from it and accordingly we decided that the Bulgarian population, the Bulgarian people should also have access to such an adenovirus vaccine. So we decided to add Janssen's vaccine. And something that puzzled me extremely much.... will the vaccine be free and voluntary? I don't remember there being a forum where I couldn't start with those words. I will say it from this tribune: the vaccine will be free for all Bulgarian citizens. The vaccine will be voluntary for all Bulgarian citizens. The vaccine will not enter the immunization calendar of Bulgaria. The vaccine will be given after informed consent by any patient who wishes to receive it. The vaccine will be given by a doctor who will assess the health status of each person. And since you said that the vaccine is the hope, do not take away the hope of the Bulgarian citizens for vaccination, as they say smarter people than myself: "When the light goes out, it is much darker than it would have been if it had not been lit at all! [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u203	Thank you, dear Minister. We continue with speeches. Mr. Stoynev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u204	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! First, a few remarks, if I may. No one takes any hope, and very much please do not speculate from this tribune! The fact that your office is open to every member of the National Assembly will be better for me if this cabinet is open to Bulgarian citizens who cannot find a bed in hospitals. Without fear or chaos from this tribune, let's say what the truth is, fellow Bulgarian citizens die on the stairs of hospitals if they ever get there!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u205	On the subject, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u206	No, no, no, don't interrupt me! On the subject and on the plan.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u207	Yes, yes, yes, Mr. Stoinev. So far, the debate has been going very calmly and well-meaningly on all sides.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u208	I am calm and that is why I say that you understand me correctly, because the Minister is coming, teaching us almost that we want something to stop. No, we don't want anything to stop, but we also want clarity. When this plan has been decided and discussed, nothing requires this plan to enter the National Assembly because it is entirely your responsibility, Mr. Minister and you as a minister should take this responsibility, not come here to parliament for something that is not the work of the Bulgarian Parliament. But that was the conversation this morning. The conversation is now another one about your plans. What is your plan for immunization of citizens do not yet know. We're worried. But when Bulgarian citizens die on the stairs of hospitals, you are obliged as a minister to take responsibility because in the end every Bulgarian citizen has the right to dignity and dignity to die! Unfortunately, the chaos that is at the moment is such that you do not allow this to the citizens. I leave those who die in ambulances. I don't want to speculate on this, I just want to tell you that this pathos that you have and that you're trying to represent a painting with isn't the truth. Secondly, how will this immunization happen if there are some vaccines, without being a specialist, which are stored at -72 degrees? And since yesterday, find out, since yesterday we have four freezers. Great achievement, dear friends. We have four freezers.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u209	Mr. Stoinev, please get into the subject we are discussing. You're expanding things a lot.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u210	You won't interrupt me, because it depends...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u211	I'm not interrupting, I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u212	...the life of Bulgarian citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u213	That's right, and you're going where we're not.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u214	These citizens will receive their vaccine, for which we insist, and I am glad that you want it to be free. But in the end, what will be the vaccine? Who's it gonna be? Who's the best and who's not? Out of seven, how will this distribution take place, all five, all six, and seven vaccines be provided? We are at a very early stage to ask for this vote from the Bulgarian Parliament. Okay, you're willing, you're incapable, we see how capable you are, maybe you'll get that trust from us, but for what? We don't have a vaccination plan. As long as we've had an epidemic plan since 2006, you've made an organization out on TV in the morning, at night. We've seen the result. We saw! Right now, Minister, you should be ashamed that we're in the first place on mortality. You must clearly and categorically state what you are doing so that we are not in the first place. Are we proud of this statistic? Colleagues, talk to me! If you from GERB and OP are proud that we are first in mortality, we from BSP are not proud of it. We at BSP aren't proud of that. Why did it come to this? We didn't come first in mortality. Why did it come to this? These are the questions and the debate that we need to have that our population is sick and cannot have access to quality health services.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u215	Colleagues, please put on your masks, because that's what Mr. Stoynev means. Masks on, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u216	Say again what you just said? What did I instigate? Say again, Honorable Host!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u217	I won't do it again! Go on, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u218	What did I instigate? You either don't know what world you're living in, or you're just talking nonsense and the Bulgarian people are suffering from this thing. We're looking for a solution...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u219	That's right!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u220	...not here just to come and stamp some solutions that don't even belong in the Bulgarian Parliament. Of course, you will be supported, but for what?! That's what we want you to tell us. You are the Minister, you should say it not so much to BSP as to Bulgarian citizens. That's the difference, and that's what we're trying to explain. Not that we are against it, not that we do not want Bulgarian citizens to have access to this healthcare. You're not giving it to them! You're the one who's dying on the hospital stairs. That's the problem! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u221	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. Replices, coworkers? I can't see. We continue with the speeches. Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u222	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I hope, before the vote on the draft decision to return to the subject, to go back to what is the real commitment of the MPs, because, unfortunately, all the speeches that we have heard from colleagues on the left are a consistent continuation of their policy to take advantage of the situation, to destabilize people's faith in that we will all, together with joint efforts, tackle the COVID-19 challenge. Colleagues, I thought you volunteered at the Bulgarian hospitals.! Didn't you see that the health care system works in overloads? Didn't you see that colleagues are fighting for the lives of every Bulgarian patient? Why are you constantly trying to put a stain on these colleagues who have spent months trying to save lives, professionalism and responsibility?! Please, really, reconsider your behavior! Please, let us be just on topics that are the commitment of the national representation, because there is no way in a Project for the approval of Bulgaria's participation in contracts that have been pre-made by the European Commission, we should talk about indications and counterindications for the introduction of vaccine, let us talk about what happens to patients, how some leaders of parliamentary groups quickly find a bed and others have to wait. [[Applause from GERB.]] How is it in Bulgaria that the National Assembly cannot work because some of the colleagues in the period of pandemic sabotage his work? We don't need to debate this! There is a need for us now to ensure that what will be provided to all European citizens, such as high quality, effective vaccines, will also be available to them, will be available free of charge, will be made available on request, so as to comply with all indications, counterindications with all responsibility of the colleagues who will place these vaccines. That must sound like a suggestion from this tribune! I cannot understand how a draft decision in which it is clearly written that, on the basis of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and on the basis of the Law which we ratified in the summer, can lead to such a flight of thought and to such an eclectic consideration regarding the health system that has been poured out here from this tribune?! Colleagues, let us be responsible, let us be at the height of what we have accepted as a commitment, becoming MPs, swearing by this tribune that we will work in the interests of the people! Let us really guarantee the Bulgarian citizens what every other European state has guaranteed them! This happens with the approval of this draft decision. Colleagues, I really think that this draft decision should be supported because this is the only opportunity we have to give the Bulgarians a chance to get vaccinated, to give the Bulgarians a chance to protect themselves and to reduce the really worrying indicators of morbidity and mortality, which are currently reported in Bulgaria! Please be very responsible and give the government a real opportunity to carry out this task as well as everyone else, because with suggestions and messages that cause disunity and fear, we will in no way be useful to the Bulgarian citizens. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u223	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. Are there any lines, coworkers? Line, Mrs. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u224	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Dr. Daritkova, I do not accept the tone you treat with the MPs. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I don't accept! This does not look like a person who is responsible and a person who is the chairman of such a responsible committee. [[GERB lines.]] And I'm not the only one who doesn't accept it. I'm one of the people who allows myself to challenge your tone, and I think you're pouring oil into the fire. Dear Minister, I have listened very carefully and the question is very complicated. [[Reply by MP Daniela Daritkova.]] Because, Mrs. Daritkova, you didn't realize that there was a wrong plan when the Minister was considering phase one, phase two, phase three, phase four and what measures will be taken then! We've been waiting for over 6,000 sick people to decide whether or not we're going to be doing clean hospitals, Dr. Daritkova. Didn't you know that?! We said, "It's not that way, it's not the number of sick people, it's exactly who, what, what, how to sign, what to do." It's a different methodology. Now, let's get back to the vaccines. That is why we want to know this plan in advance, because it can still be messed up. You've heard what claims they have, let's see if there is this thing in the plan or not, as far as it is possible, of course. It is true, we MPs will even have access to classified information, but the ordinary citizen, without this information that Dr. Jeffer talks about will not happen. We want to see the plan. Without such a plan you want to give. Yes, we've sworn, but what do we get against it?! Zero! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u225	Any other lines? I can't see. A hole, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u226	Dear Mrs. Naydenova, I think my tone was much more relaxed and minority than the tone of many other exalted MPs on the left. At the same time, I do not know what to say to you because it does not concern the draft decision at all. We are currently adopting a draft decision approving Bulgaria's participation in the acquisition of vaccines under the agreements concluded by the European Commission. We are in no way discussing either the vaccination plan or the plan to deal with the pandemic, or any other plans, or any number that you are not even quoting here. Dear colleagues, please let us be auto- and aloised, adequate to the situation and discuss the draft decision, support it with our responsibility for ensuring that Bulgarian citizens have access to vaccines, as is happening in all other European countries. That is the point of voting today's Draft Decision. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u227	Thank you. We continue with the speeches. Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u228	Dear Bulgarian citizens! Today we are putting all the questions that you have heard, for one purpose - transparency and awareness of you, and an informed decision that we are going to make, and it concerns your life, ours, the total of all. Nothing more than that! I need information! You know better than we do that governance is not dealing with the crisis, that in the country and in healthcare it is chaos, both in health, both economically and socially. The government failed to manage the crisis. And they're not just allegations, they're facts. At the peak of the crisis, the question is still whether there will be electronic guidance for PCR tests. At the peak of the crisis, there will still be clean hospitals and those in which there is treatment of the sick and other diseases. At the peak of the crisis is solved will there be green corridors and others, and an Adhok organization is being made for something that had to be done in the summer. The result we are commenting on is extremely tragic and sad for Bulgaria that we are at the top of the mortality rate. But once again I say from the stands: the big problem of the management of this crisis is the mistrust of the Bulgarians in the decisions made by the government of Boyko Borisov. Disbelief also makes many today doubt whether or not to be vaccinated. Science has saved humanity many times, and this time it will help. We can't stand in the way of science that makes a vaccine to help save lives, and neither of us has claimed that. We just wanted information, we wanted answers to questions, and we got it. We don't have any more claims. All the questions we asked were answered by the Minister of Health. The government has no answer. He doesn't know until the European Medicines Agency decides what these vaccines will do! He does not know until the European authorities are pronounced to which groups of Bulgarians to put these vaccines! Everything we cared about got an answer. We don't know! However, contracts are signed, huge quantities are ordered, something is being delivered for which the government does not know what the result of its use will be. Here are the facts and the clear picture today. And we in this House today have to decide how to vote, but not for us all, for the whole Bulgarian people. And, respectable, sarcastic about the volunteering of the MPs from BSP for Bulgaria, I call on each of you to come in just one day before pressing this button before you make fun of it! Come to the hospitals, to the wards, before you press the button! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Any politician who makes decisions at this time must spend at least one day there before giving assessments and criticising those who do. I assure you, then you will think much more about which button to press when you see these people's eyes. So much for your irony for what we do. And now, in order to ensure at least minimum security and peace of mind of Bulgarian citizens, we from BSP for Bulgaria are making a proposal to supplement the Decision, and it is to create a point. 2: Instructs the Council of Ministers to draw up a National vaccination plan against COVID-19, built on the principles of voluntary and free vaccination. [[Noise and lines from GERB. Claps from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] The minister's confidence in the platform that such a plan exists and it will be announced tomorrow that vaccination will be voluntary and free is worth nothing, because such words have been heard many times from this platform, we have heard them from the Council of Ministers. Something has been announced in the morning, at lunch it has been changed cardinally, and the evening has been replaced by a third. We are a parliament in a parliamentary republic to ensure calm, security, order and forecastability, transparency. With care for the people, we insist in the decision to explicitly write the text after the Minister says that this is true, I hope you will not mind that it will be voluntary and free. Thus, we guarantee those who are worried about the unknown that no one will necessarily vaccinate them and those who want to be vaccinated will do so. [[GERB lines.]] This way we guarantee that you will not later think of making them pay for their vaccines. If we are a parliament in a parliamentary republic and if you respect what the minister has already confirmed, then this proposal must be accepted. I'm doing it officially, I'm bringing it to the chairman, and I'm asking you to put it to the vote. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u229	Thank you. - What's the line? I can't see. We continue with the speeches. I don't see anyone who wants to make a statement. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. Please take your seats. I will put to the vote the proposal made by Mrs Ninova just now to create a point. 2. Please, voting mode. Colleagues, I remind you, we are voting on Mrs. Ninova's proposal to create a point. 2 to the Project Decision. Vote 151 MPs: 62, against 66, abstention 23. [[Comments from GERB, calling: "Woo! "]] The offer is not accepted. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u230	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The masks are down so it won't be free and it won't be voluntary! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Here, Mister...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u231	No, thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u232	Minister, don't laugh! Come and tell the Bulgarian citizens... [[The President Emil Hristov turns off the microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u233	Please, Mr. Svilensky, interrupt your speech and take your place! Mr. Svilensky, what are you doing right now? Is this a procedure? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] No, it's not a proposal, it's not a procedure. It's nothing, Mr. Svilensky, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u234	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u235	Yes, you did. You started a pep talk from the stands, I can't let you continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u236	I want a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u237	Do it!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u238	How am I supposed to do that when my microphone's off?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u239	How can I turn on your microphone when you're saying things that are unrelated to the re-voting? You want a re-vote well, I'll put the proposal to a re-vote. Okay, Mr. Svilensky, I get it, I get it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u240	...she didn't understand what I wanted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u241	On the contrary, everyone understands that you want a re-vote. Thank you. I'm gonna put him through...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u242	Mr. Chairman, I have two minutes of procedure, and you're stopping me at forty seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u243	Colleagues, I will put Mrs Ninova's proposal to create a point again. 2 in the Project Decision. Please, voting mode.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u244	Procedure in the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u245	I'll give you the floor after the vote. Vote 150 MPs: 62, against 64, abstention 24. The offer is not accepted. Negative vote. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u246	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I take advantage of my right to a negative vote to say why I voted against Mrs. Ninova's proposal and the BSP group. Firstly, because even their sense of the proposal was supported by only half of their parliamentary group. And secondly, because this does not correspond at all to the procedure under review and a monstrous manipulation was used to take part in the Bulgarian citizens and the Bulgarian society that such vaccination will be paid. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Here, you're doing it right now! Shame on you for what you want to instill and manipulate the Bulgarian society! You've been playing with people's fears since the beginning of the pandemic. I have therefore voted against your proposal. You have all taken advantage of the Bulgarian health system and come out of this tribune to say such things for half an hour before the Minister of Health, before the whole hall and before the Bulgarian society to me is shameful. I therefore say once again that I voted against your proposal because this is the manipulation of Bulgarian society, of Bulgarian citizens. You wanted to take advantage of parliamentary time, and I'm sure in the next few days you'll be going out on the media and saying that...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u247	So the Minister is manipulating!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u248	Please don't interrupt me from the gym! Thank you. You will use the time on TV to tell Bulgarian citizens that the immunization will almost be paid, and that is a monstrous lie! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u249	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Prodanov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u250	Dear Mr. Chairman, I am tired of calling you to end the double standard. This morning Mrs Karajancheva was given an example of how many times she took the opposition's word, excluding the microphones. You keep doing the same! What we wanted with the re-voting procedure is to convince colleagues who first voted against the BSP proposal [[GERB lines]] , but in fact it was also a proposal of the minister himself, spoken shortly before us from the parliamentary tribune. Since we are accustomed not once or twice to requests, policies given by the Prime Minister, by representatives of the Council of Ministers, to change, we wanted there to be some security for a decision on how the Bulgarian citizens will be vaccinated.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u251	Now to me, to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u252	And that was exactly what the Minister of Health suggested.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u253	To me.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u254	What was the problem for additional security to accept this proposal?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u255	So far, I find absolutely nothing, Mr. Prodanov, to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u256	That's exactly what I'm explaining to you because you won't give or turn off...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u257	You're not explaining it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u258	You turn off the microphones of our representatives and the House cannot actually hear what our proposals are. Basically, that was the idea of re-voting, nothing else. There was no confrontation, there was nothing. The fact that you are in all things looking for confrontation, you are looking for opposition, and at the same time you are acting as unifiers, does not honor you! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u259	Thank you. I will now put to the vote the draft decision submitted by Mrs Daritkova. I would like to remind you that Mrs. Nino's proposal has been rejected. Please, voting mode. We are voting on the draft decision proposed by Mrs Daritkova! They voted 126 MPs: for 107, none against, abstention 19. [[Applause from GERB. A line from the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] Mr. Minister, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u260	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I express my gratitude to all of you for supporting the decision the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria has submitted to the National Assembly, namely the approval of the conclusion of contracts with four of the companies in an advanced stage for preparing vaccines. Thank you for giving Bulgarian citizens the opportunity to have equal access to vaccines, as European citizens have in each of the European countries so far. I'll allow myself to say a few words about the speeches before then. I am also worried why it has come to this and what are the reasons for the death rate in Bulgaria to be high. One of the things that bothered me, and I've always said it, was that out of this tribune, people were dissuaded from the rightness and the obligation to wear a mask. [[(Applause from GERB. Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u261	Please be quiet in the hall. Please be quiet in the hall! Masks, masks, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u262	From this tribune, MPs explained that the microns of masks, the gaps in the mask as size in microns are larger than the size of the virus, and this, you see, doesn't help. [[Replications from the MPs Georgi Svilenski and Ivan Chenchev.]] Ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u263	Please be quiet! Less emotions on both sides of the room, please! [[Replications between MPs Georgi Svilenski and Stanislav Ivanov.]] Please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u264	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, if in this crisis we do not show unity as a people and as a nation, unity as MPs who believe in the rightness of measures and the simplest alphabetical scientific truths in wearing a mask, in keeping a distance, in keeping with disinfection, we will not succeed and we will not get anywhere. Thank you once again for your support. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u265	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The way you're holding it, here you go. [[Noise and lines.]] Please, be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u266	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary! No one in this room said you shouldn't wear masks. You said in response to me that this hall didn't fall and shouldn't wear masks!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u267	What's the procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u268	And stop...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u269	What's the procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u270	...to lie and the MPs... [[The President Valeri Simeonov turns off the microphones. The orator continues to speak with microphones off. Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u271	Please remain silent in the room. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] It doesn't suit you to be a well-mannered person to shout, "Come on, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, No one's ever treated you like that! We continue with the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE DANISH-EXISTING PROCEEDING CODEX. Who's gonna deliver the report? Mrs. Stoyanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u272	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Please first, a procedure for admission in the hall of Mrs. Rositsa Velkova, Deputy Minister of Finance, and Mrs. Ludmila Petkova, Director of the Tax Policy Directorate at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u273	Vote for admission, please. Vote 92 MPs: for 89, against 1, abstention 2. Please take your seats.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u274	"Action to amend and supplement the Tax-Securities Procedure Code'. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of importers for paragraphs 1 to 24 inclusive.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u275	Thank you. Are there any statements from § 1 to § 24 by importer and by title? I can't see. I put to the vote the name of the bill, as well as paragraphs 1 to 24. Vote 89 MPs: for 73, against 1, abstention 15. The title of the Bill, as well as paragraphs 1 to 24, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u276	Under § 25, there is a proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 127c the following amendments and additions are made: 1. The title is amended as follows: "Fiscal control in intra-Community acquisition and storage until demand for high-risk goods'. 2. In para. 1 after the words "indoor acquisition of high risk goods', the words "high risk' are replaced by "high risk' and the words "inward risk' are replaced by "high risk'. Under § 26, there is a proposal of the MP Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 26: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 127d The following amendments and additions are made: 1. The title is amended as follows: "Fiscal control in intra-Community supply and storage up to the request of high risk goods'. 2. In para. 1 after the words "In the case of intra-Community delivery of high risk goods', added "in the case of intra-Community delivery of high-risk goods' is added in the case of... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u277	Mrs. Stoyanova, stop for a moment, please. Please, let the MPs take their seats and keep order and quiet! Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u278	Thank you. I'll read it one more time. 2:.............................................................................. 1 after the words "In the case of intra-Community delivery of high risk goods', added "in the case of storage mode up to the demand of high risk goods'.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u279	Do you have any Paragraph 25 and 26 statements? I can't see. I'm calling off the debate. I shall put to the vote the text of § 25 and 26 by the version of the Commission. 90 MPs voted: 76, none, abstention 14. Paragraphs 25 and 26 have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u280	The Commission shall support the importer's text for paragraphs 27 to 47 inclusive.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u281	Are there any statements on paragraphs 27 to 47 included? I can't see. I'm calling off the debate. I shall put to the vote the wording of § 27 to 47, including by importer. Vote 87 MPs: 77, none, abstention 10. Paragraphs 27 to 47 by importer have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u282	Under § 48, there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made in accordance with Article 48. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 48: ............... 48............................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 252, para. 6 A fourth sentence is created: When a proxy participates in the bidding, the tender power must be notarized. The Commission shall support the import text of paragraphs 49 to 54 inclusive.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u283	I open the debate on paragraphs 48 to 54. Are there any speeches? I can't see. I'm calling off the debate. I shall put to the vote the text of paragraph 48 as amended by the Commission and the wording of paragraphs 49 to 54 by importer. Vote 85 MPs: 79, none, abstention 6. Paragraph 48 of the Commission's version and paragraphs 49 to 54 of the importer have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u284	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs for the creation of a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 55: ........... 55....................................................................... Paragraph 2d shall be inserted in the additional provisions: .............................................................................................. The provisions of art. 66 " 74" of the Administrative Procedure Code shall not apply to the acts of the Minister of Finance which, on the basis of a tax law, establish models of declarations, references, accounts for amounts paid, business notes, certificates, Banderoles and other documents. "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision, paragraphs 55 and 56 by importer, which shall be supported by the Commission and become respectively paragraphs 56 and 57.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u285	I shall open the debates on new proposals § 55; the name of the section "Transitional and final provisions', as well as under paragraphs 55 and 56 by importer, which become paragraphs 56 and 57 respectively. Are there any speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u286	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I made the proposal under art. 57 at the request of the Association of Municipalities in the Budget Act. I am very pleased that the Budget Commission and the ruling coalition have reached the decision that this is useful for the Bulgarian municipalities, because budget money is not given, and those funds that are for prevention and use by the municipalities now even I would like to congratulate you that you are going a little further and you are deciding to use them as compensatory mechanisms for 2021 even. That is why we will support this proposal and perhaps it is better when there is pressure from outside the Bulgarian municipalities, when there are proposals from members of the opposition, not a little later in another law to be adopted, but could legally be adopted in the State Budget Act itself. Thank you for supporting my proposal under art. 57 and now it becomes a real decision, and the next two members go further, which is more useful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u287	Mrs. Yankova, your statement is for the next text, we'll keep it, we'll put it in the transcript, we'll transfer it to the next paragraph. Is there a line? I won't. Any other speeches? I can't see. We are going to vote on the proposal for a new § 55; the name "Transitional and Final Provisions'; § 55, which becomes § 56, and § 56, which becomes § 57. Vote 87 MPs: 79, no objection, abstention 8. The proposed paragraphs are adopted as well as the new § 55, the name of the section and paragraphs 55 and 56 by importer which become § 56 and § 57.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u288	Proposal by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create new paragraphs 58, 59 and 60: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss (1) Monthly collateral and allowances for 2020 under art. 60, para. 2, p. Art. 1 and 2 and art. 64, para. 1 of the Waste Management Act for the period from 1 March 2020 to 31 December 2020 shall remain at the expense of the municipality which collected them and shall be spent by decision of the municipal council by means of internal compensatory changes, without amending the method of determination and amount of the municipal waste charge adopted by the municipal council. (2) The regional environmental and water inspection, on whose territory the relevant depot is located, shall recover from the bank account for foreign funds transferred and unused by the municipalities monthly collateral and charges for 2020 under art. 60, para. 2, p. Art. 1 and 2 and art. 64, para. 1 of the Waste Management Act for the period from 1 March 2020 to 31 December 2020 by 31 January 2021. The recovered funds by sentence shall first be spent by decision of the municipal council under the conditions of para. 1. § 59. (1) For 2021 in the expenditure under art. 62, p. 3 of the Law on Local Taxes and Fees may also be included costs for implementing measures under art. 63 of the Health Act, carried out in public use territories in settlements and settlements in the municipality. In para. 2 in the Report is recorded "al." Please correct the technical error................................................................................................... . (2) The costs under para. 1 shall be provided by internal compensatory changes, without amending the method adopted by the municipal council and the amount of the municipal waste charge. § 60. (1) Monthly collateral and charges for 2021 under art. 60, para. 2, p. Art. 1 and 2 and art. 64, para. 1 of the Waste Management Act can be spent by decision of the municipal council through internal compensated changes, without amending the method of determination and amount of the municipal waste charge adopted by the municipal council. (2) The monthly charges due for 2021 under art. 60, para. 2, p. Art. 1 and 2 and art. 64, para. 1 of the Waste Management Act shall be imported by 31 December 2021. (3) For the period from 1 January to 31 December 2021 no interest shall be charged on the amounts due for monthly deductions under art. 60, para. 2, p. Art. 1 and 2 and art. 64, para. 1 of the Waste Management Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u289	Continue to § 62 by importer which becomes § 66.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u290	The Commission shall support the text of the importer referred to in paragraphs 57; 58; 59;60; 61 and 62 by importer which, under the Commission Report, become paragraphs 61 to 66.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u291	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Are there any speeches on the proposal for new paragraphs 58, 59 and 60; paragraphs 57 to 62 by importer? I can't see. Mrs. Yankova's statement must be referred to § 58. If there are no wishers, I shall debate. I shall put to the vote the texts of § 58, newly proposed by the Commission; and § 57 to § 62 by importer, which shall become paragraphs 61 to 66 with a new numbering. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. Paragraphs 58, 59, 60 "new offer' have been adopted; and paragraphs 57 to 62, which accept a new numbering, from 61 to 66, including.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u292	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Maria Ilieva, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 67 and § 68: ................. In the Act on Independent Financial Audit (promise, SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15, para. 3 is created sentence two: "For recognition of the exam under para. 1, t. 1 The applicant shall pass an IDES exam with questions under the Accounting and National Accounting Standards Act. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 28 is s (5) Where all signatures on the annual accounts and audit report are electronic signatures, the professional stamp of the registered auditor shall not be required. In this case, the annual accounts and the audit report shall be entered in the auditor's registration number from the register of art. 20........................................................................................... 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 38, para. The second sentence of the sentence of the second sentence shall be selected by eligibility criteria developed by the Management Board and approved by the General Assembly, which aim to ensure their expertise and experience, shall be replaced by the following requirements: 1. possess a good name and professional reputation in society; 2. have at least 5 years of professional experience in the field of financial audit, of which at least three years as a registered auditor. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 77, para. 1, t. 5 sentence third, the words "for infringements of the provision of services other than compulsory financial audit and/or related to the audit services' shall be replaced by "skills related to the supervisory activity under art. 12............................................................................................................ ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Act on Accounting (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 25 is created. 5. In drawing up the annual financial statements, the signatures under para. 2 and 4 may be electronic signatures within the meaning of Article 4. 13 of the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Certification Services Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 83. para. 5. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 69: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, and for overcoming the consequences (promise, SG No. ...) are created art. 26a and 26b: Art. 26a. (1) The State shall provide to persons performing tour and travel agent activities grants of 4 per cent of their turnover in 2019, which are primarily used to compensate for losses arising from withdrawals from vouchers and amounts withheld from service providers. (2) The funds under para. 1 shall be made available to the persons under para. 1 in a row determined by a regulation of the Minister of Tourism and subject to the rules on State aid. Art. 26b. (1) Micro, small and medium-sized enterprises which, in accordance with an order of the Minister of Health in the event of an emergency epidemic situation have ceased their activity after 28 November 2020, shall be granted a grant of a percentage of their turnover for the same period during the previous year, for a period until the limitation is lifted. For registered micro, small and medium-sized enterprises after 1 January 2020, grants shall be at the rate of their turnover for the previous month of the month in which the activity was terminated. (2) The funds under para. 1 shall be made available to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises meeting criteria and in order defined by the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Minister of Economy. (3) The funds under para. 1 shall be transferred to a payment account of the undertaking concerned by the National Revenue Agency. (4) The National Revenue Agency shall apply on the basis of a decision of the Governing Council for payment activities to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises under para. 1 "3" by European funds on the basis of a contract concluded with a managing authority of an operational programme under the terms of the contract concerned. (5) Implicitly received funds, unduely paid and overpaid amounts shall be reimbursed together with interest under the Law on Interests on Taxes, Fees and other similar State claims from the date of receipt of the funds until the date of their recovery. The recovery claims are public government claims. The acts referred to in art. 166 of the Tax Procedure Code shall be issued by revenue bodies authorised by the Executive Director of the National Revenue Agency. The appeal of the acts shall not suspend their execution. (6) All executive bodies shall provide the National Revenue Agency with the information necessary for the provision of the funds under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. Mr. Chairman, I'm asking for a procedure. I want to make two additions. The first Appendix.......................................................................................... 26a, para. 1 after the words "per cent of the turnover' to be added to the list of VAT-free items. Article 26a, § 69, para. 1. In the absence of VAT, the rate of 4 per cent of the turnover after turnover should be added. Turnover without VAT, because it will become a percentage on VAT, which is ultimately not right. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 26b, para. 1 date 28 November 2020 to change to
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u293	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u294	In the same para. 1 in the last sentence after 1 January 2020, the grants amount to a percentage of the turnover after the turnover to be added to the VAT-free rate. And in the previous sentence also after the..... not VAT................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u295	Amount of the percentage of the non-VAT-free charge.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u296	Without VAT, twice the turnover, excluding VAT, in para. 1. If I have to read the whole al once more. 1 with my corrections.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u297	There's no need.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u298	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u299	I am debating the newly proposed paragraphs 67 and 68. They are proposed as § 63 and § 64 of the old numbering and accept a new numbering § 67 and § 68, as well as the proposal for a new § 63, which accepts a numbering § 69. Are there any statements on these three paragraphs? I can't see. First, we'll have to vote on the amendments.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u300	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u301	Are there any statements from the editorials? I can't see. I'm calling off the debate. Should we vote them one at a time or at a time?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u302	I think it's all at once, because they're kind of technical. The addition of the words without VAT and after the turnover under para. 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u303	I shall put to the vote in art. 26a, para. 1 the words "without VAT" shall be added after the. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 26b, para. 1 at the end of the page after 28 November 2020 In the same subparagraph of Article 2. 26b after the "no" point is added the word "no VAT" in the two places where there is the expression "the rate of turnover" is added, "no VAT" is added. Vote 87 MPs: 81, none, abstention 6. I now vote on the text: the new paragraphs 63 and 64, which acquire numbers 67 and 68; and the new § 63, which becomes § 69 with the newly voted editorials. Vote 85 MPs: 80, none, abstention 5. Paragraphs with a new numbering from 67 to 69 have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u304	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 83. para. 5. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 70. ...... 70......................................................................... The order of Art. 26a of the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, and for overcoming the consequences shall apply until 31 December 2021 inclusive. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 63, which shall become § 71. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 64, which shall become § 72: ................. The law shall enter into force from 1 January 2021, with the exception of: 1. paragraph 34, which shall enter into force from 1 May 2021; 2. paragraphs 55, 58, 59, 60 and 69 concerning the creation of art. 26b of the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, and to overcome the consequences that come into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal. 3. paragraph 69 concerning the creation of art. 26a of the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, and to overcome the consequences which shall take effect from 7 December 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u305	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Are there any statements on the paragraphs that have just been read? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm calling off the debate. I put to the vote the proposal for a new § 67 which acquires a new numbering § 70; the wording of § 63, which becomes § 71 by importer; and the wording of § 64, which becomes § 72 by version of the Commission. They voted 86 MPs: 79, none, abstention 7. Paragraphs 70, 71 and 72 of the new numbering have been adopted and the bill has been adopted accordingly.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u306	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for your accurate and fruitful work. It's been a real pleasure working with you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-12-03.u307	Thank you. [[Noise and lines. A large part of the MPs become.]] Please keep order in the Chamber, the meeting is not closed yet. Take your seats, please. Quaestors, return the MPs to their seats. There are very important messages following. It's extremely important! Parliamentary Control Communication on 4 December 2020: 1. Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva will answer four questions from the MPs Valeri Zablyanov, Krasimir Yankov, Nikolay Ivanov, Dimitar Stoyanov, Georgi Andreyev, Lalo Kirilov and Chavdar Velinov; Anton Kutev and Zhelyo Boychev; Christian Vigenin; Anton Kutev and Philip Popov; and one question from the National Representative Alexander Paunov. 2. Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will answer a question from the MPs Nikolai Ivanov and Vasil Antonov. 3. Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva will answer one question from the MP Nadia Klisurska-Zekova. 4. Justice Minister Desislava Ahladova will answer a question from the MP Hristo Gazhev. 5. The Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will answer four questions from the MPs Donka Simeonova; Veska Nencheva and Donka Simeonova; Anna Slavova and Evdokiya Asenova; Polina Shishkova and Veska Nencheva. 6. The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva will answer a question from the National Representative Dimitar Danchev. 7. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova will answer three questions from the MPs Lyubomir Bonev and Nikola Dinkov; Lubomir Bonev; and Vasil Antonov; and two questions from the MPs Georgi Svilenski, Manol Genov and Dimitar Danchev; and Pavel Shopov. 8. The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov will answer a question from the MP Rumen Gechev. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov to a question with a written answer from the MPs Stoyan Mirchev and Yavor Bojankov; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski. For lack of respectable reasons, Members of the National Assembly shall postpone the responses to: - one question from the MP Krum Zarkov to the Minister of Justice Desislava Ahladova; - a question from the MP Ivan Valentinov Ivanov to the Minister of Interior Hristo Terziyski; - a question from the MP Dzhevdet Chakarov to the Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov. Due to the exhaustion of the agenda, I am adjourned. The next meeting will be held tomorrow, 4 December 2020, at 9.00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
