ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Dear colleagues, I will present to you a draft work programme of the National Assembly for July 22, 2020: "1." A choice of deputy ombudsman. The procedure of choice shall be in accordance with rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 8 July 2020. 2. First vote on the Law Supplement to the Law on Radio and Television. Importers: Evgeni Budinov and a group of MPs on 14 July 2020. 3. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Obligations and Contracts. Importers: Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on 25 June 2020 4. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Underground Treasures. Importer: Council of Ministers on 2 April 2020. Adopted at first vote on 21 May 2020. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. 5. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code Act. Importers: Krum Zarkov and a group of MPs on 15 January 2020. Adopted at first vote on 5 February 2020. 6. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Civil Procedure Code. Importers: the Council of Ministers on 6 July 2020; importers: Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs on 10 July 2020. 7. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Military Intelligence Act. Importers: Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs on 1 July 2020. Adopted at first vote on 9 July 2020. 8. Second vote on the bill amending and supplementing the Gambling Act. Importers: Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs on 5 June 2020. Adopted in the first vote on 17 June 2020. Point 1 for Thursday, 23 July 2020 9. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Local Taxes and Fees. Importers: Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs on 10 July 2020 Point 2 for Thursday, 23 July 2020 10. Election of a Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission, head of the Management Board and member of the Financial Supervision Commission, supporting its policy on analysis and assessment of risks in the financial markets, improving supervisory practice and protecting investors' interests, insured and insured persons. The procedure of choice shall be in accordance with rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 2 July 2020. Point 3 for Thursday, 23 July 2020 11. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration. A joint project drawn up by the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government on the basis of the laws adopted at the first vote on 16 July 2020 with importers: Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs on 1 July 2020; Iskren Veselinov, Emil Hristov, Alexander Nenkov and Mladen Shishkov on 9 July 2020. Point 4 for Thursday, 23 July 2020 12. Draft Law on the ratification of the Amendment of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the "World Bank") to provide support for the World Bank Office in the Republic of Bulgaria on 12 April 2019. Importer: Council of Ministers on 26 June 2020. Point 1 for Friday, 24 July 2020 13. Selection of members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, outside the elected members under § 41 of the transitional and final provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act (promote, SG No. No. 17 of 2015, Dop., No. 48 from 2015) The procedure of choice shall be in accordance with rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 19 June 2020. Point 2 for Friday, 24 July 2020 14. Parliamentary control. Please vote on the proposed draft programme. Vote 197 MPs: 144 against 4, abstention 49. The motion is accepted. Draft and draft resolutions from 15 July 2020 to 27 July 2020 shall: A bill to supplement the Social Security Code. Importer: Sincere Veselinov and group of MPs. The leading Commission is the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy allocated to the Committee on Health. Draft decision on the award of the Court of Auditors to carry out an audit of compliance in the financial management of public funds and the activities of the Bulgarian National Television as a senior authorising officer with a budget and an audit of the effectiveness of supervisory activities carried out by the Electronic Media Board on national public media service providers. Importer: Maria Ilieva and group of MPs. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Culture and Media. Bill for withdrawal from the reserve, made by the Republic of Bulgaria under art. 31 of the Convention on the Status of Non-Citizens Adopted in New York on 28 September 1954. Importer: Council of Ministers. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead, assigned to the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, the Committee on Foreign Policy. A report on the hearing of the candidate for deputy ombudsman is an importer of the Commission on Religions and Human Rights. Report on the activities of the Commission on the disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army for the period 20 December 2019. " 20 July 2020 Importer: The Commission for the Disclosure of Documents and the Declaration of Membership of Bulgarian Citizens to State Security and the Intelligence Services of the Bulgarian People's Army. It has been assigned to the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. Report on the hearing of the candidate for Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission, responsible for management and the candidate for a member of the Commission for a member of the Financial Supervision Commission, supporting policy analysis and assessment of risks and financial markets, improving supervisory policy and protecting the interests of investors, insurers and insured persons. Importer: Budget and Finance Committee. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Services Act. Importer: Elena Pesheva and a group of MPs assigned to the leading Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Law amending and supplementing the Food Act. Importer: Valeri Simeonov and group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Committee on Agriculture and Food and to the Committee on Supplementary Committees "The Committee on Environment and Water and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds." Messages: Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, in implementation of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria from allied and foreign armed forces, informs the National Assembly that by its order he has authorised the passage through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria of the non-military nature of an aircraft with its crew from the air forces of Switzerland. The authorisation shall be valid for the period from 28 July to 31 July 2020 for one flight for the purpose of transporting diplomatic personnel. The order issued is within the competence of the Minister of Defence, concerning the assessment of the military parameters of the country's transition to defence. The notification was received on 21 July 2020 with entry No 003-09-50 and was submitted to the Defence Committee. And the last message: The National Statistical Institute has received information about inflation and consumer price indices for June 2020. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Moving on to point one: Chosen Deputy Ombudsman. The procedure of choice shall be in accordance with rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 8 July 2020. I will first introduce you to the rules for the election of the Deputy Ombudsman of the National Assembly. The rules are as follows: 1. The sitting is broadcast in real time on the website of the National Assembly. The proposed candidate is present at the meeting by decision of the National Assembly. 2. The National Assembly shall hear the submitted report of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights in summary. 3. The candidate for Deputy Ombudsman shall be represented by the Ombudsman within five minutes. 4. Discussions shall be held on the application under the Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. 5. The vote is evident through the computerized voting system. 6. The candidate shall be deemed elected if he has received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly. 7. If the candidate for deputy ombudsman does not receive the necessary votes, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. You are welcome to brief us on the Report of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights, Mrs. Chekanska.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u2	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Before I present the Report, I would like to do a procedure under art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, to be admitted to the plenary associate professor Dr. Diana Kovacheva Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria, and Mrs. Elena Cherneva Markova, candidate for deputy ombudsman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u3	Please vote on the procedure so made for admission. Vote 154 MPs: 150 against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Here you go, Mrs. Chekanska.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u4	♪ I can't believe on a hearing of the applicant for deputy ombudsman At an open meeting held on 16 July 2020 and aired in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights held a hearing of the proposed candidate for Deputy Ombudsman under Section IV of the Rules of Procedure for proposing a candidate for Deputy Ombudsman, the public disclosure of documents, the presentation and hearing of the candidate for Deputy Ombudsman in the Committee on Religions and Human Rights, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 8 July 2020, hereinafter referred to as the Rules of Procedure. The President of the Commission Mr. Krasimir Velchev explained that the hearing will be held in accordance with the rules of procedure. He announced that on the basis of art. 11, para. 1 of the Law on the Ombudsman, the proposal for a Deputy Ombudsman is made by the Ombudsman. The Ombudsman Associate Professor Diana Kovacheva proposed Mrs. Elena Cherneva-Markova's candidacy. The proposal shall be accompanied by all documents required under Section I. 2 of the Rules of Procedure supposed motives, CV, diploma for higher education, documents certifying experience in the field of human rights and declarations. The proposal for the candidate, together with all documents, is published within the specialized website of the National Assembly. The President of the Commission shall inform that pursuant to Section IV, t. 1 of the Rules of Procedure submitted the documents have been verified and the applicant complies with the requirements of the Law on the Ombudsman for taking up the post. The Commission has not received any opinions or questions to the candidate for deputy ombudsman from non-governmental organisations and media. To the proposal Prof. Diana Kovacheva has applied the letters for nomination and support of Ms. Elena Cherneva-Markova's candidacy. They focus on the high professionalism and personal qualities of Mrs. Elena Cherneva-Markova. Its successes as Chairman of the National Legal Aid Bureau and its reputation as a well-established lawyer of undeniable moral qualities are highlighted. Opinions on her longstanding experience as project manager for implementing important tools for access to legal aid to vulnerable groups in society are expressed. It appears that its active civil position and expertise in the field of human rights protection will contribute to the effective work of the institution of the national ombudsman. Ms. Elena Cherneva-Markova's application was presented by the Ombudsman. Prof. Diana Kovacheva informed the public procedure for nomination and hearing of candidates for deputy ombudsman, which meets to the full extent all the requirements of the Paris principles of the UN and of art. 11, para. 1 of the Law on the Ombudsman. The accreditation of the institution of the Ombudsman with the status of the Ombudsman is not only a recognition of the institution's work, but also an obligation to apply in full the principles of publicity, transparency and competition in the nomination of a deputy ombudsman. Two candidates for deputy ombudsman nominated by non-governmental organisations were publicly heard and the hearing was transmitted on the Internet in real time. The evaluation of the candidates was carried out by a committee formed by the Ombudsman, including members of the Advisory Constitutional Council of the Ombudsman on a methodology previously disclosed on the Ombudsman's website. The first place was ranked Mrs. Elena Cherneva-Markova. Prof. Kovacheva said that she was impressed with the presentation of both candidates, and the only thing that may have prevailed in the opinion of the jury was the legal education of Mrs. Cherneva with longstanding experience as a lawyer, alumni of the Faculty of Law of Sofia University, St. Kliment Ohridski, and as Chairman of the Legal Aid Bureau in Bulgaria. During the hearing Mrs. Cherneva demonstrated knowledge, experience and expertise in the field of the protection of fundamental human rights, which she would have used in an adequate manner in her work as Deputy Ombudsman. As a lawyer who has worked with people for many years, with their complaints and legal problems, Mrs. Cherneva will contribute positively to the Ombudsman's relationship with the citizens and would be useful in responding to more than 13,000 complaints that the Ombudsman receives traditionally every year, as well as in drafting legal opinions to the National Assembly and requests to the Constitutional Court. Prof. Kovacheva expressed confidence that Mrs. Cherneva will have a working, active and active deputy ombudsman, well motivated to perform this function. Following the presentation of the application, the personal presentation of the candidate and the presentation of his concept of work as a deputy ombudsman was moved on. In her exhibition Mrs. Elena Cherneva-Markova said that her motivation to run for deputy ombudsman is related to the social focus of this position. Her professional experience as both a lawyer for nearly 30 years and as Chairman of the National Legal Aid Office for 8 years would help her to meet the challenges faced by the Ombudsman's institution. Because the national ombudsman as a law-abiding institution has many similarities with the profession of the lawyer in terms of knowledge of both the legislation governing the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens and the mechanisms for organising their protection. As a lawyer and as Chairman of the National Legal Aid Bureau, Mrs. Cherneva considers the Ombudsman's institution familiar and close. She pointed out that the protection of citizens' rights is closely linked and is based on professional and personal qualities: legal experience, life experience and commitment to the cause for protecting citizens' rights. Ms. Cherneva pointed out that helping certain groups of people who cannot protect their own interests, such as children at risk, people with disabilities, victims of domestic violence, victims of human trafficking, is a great challenge and at the same time brings great satisfaction. As President of the National Legal Aid Bureau, he knows the need for citizens to protect their interests. It focuses on the amendments and additions to the Law on Legal Aid, which reform and improve the overall legal aid system in Bulgaria, initiated by the Bureau for Legal Aid. Ms. Cherneva said that during the years of serious administrative work she has developed additional professional skills, but she has begun to feel the need as a practicing lawyer to apply her legal experience more actively for the benefit of the citizens. She stressed that the role of the Deputy Ombudsman is to assist the Ombudsman in his overall work. In this sense, it supports the proactive approach to the work of the Ombudsman's institution and considers that, with its expertise, it would contribute to supplementing the quality of the checks carried out and the preparation of responses to complaints received by citizens, as well as opinions to the National Assembly, to the Council of Ministers in relation to regulations, to the Constitutional Court for the declaration of non-constitution of regulatory provisions. It would focus its efforts to integrate the Ombudsman's exported admission centres with the 13 regional advisory centres set up by the National Legal Aid Office in order to be able, in full and far more effective, to protect their violated rights. In conclusion, Mrs. Cherneva assured that she would work very actively, put all her professional experience to assist the Ombudsman in his work, will be irreconcilable to violating the rights of citizens, will defend their rights to the institutions uncompromisingly, will be dialogueal, but also very persistent when she makes demands to protect the rights of the citizens. The deputy ombudsman candidate was asked questions by MPs. The questions were related to the candidate's leading motive for the position with the admissions and their interaction with the regional centres of the Legal Aid Bureau with the need for legal education of the candidate, the role of the Deputy Ombudsman in the context of the legal powers of the institution, with possible actions in conflicting case-law, the approach to certain NGOs and the manner of protection of the rights of the Bulgarian citizens through the European Social Charter, given its revised version. Mrs. Cherneva answered in detail and in depth the questions raised to her. In conclusion, Mr. Krasimir Velchev expressed the opinion that the power of an institution is in teamwork. Watching the activities of the Ombudsman's institution so far, he noted that its success was due to all those working in it. According to him, Associate Professor Kovacheva has proved that she can work both as a leader and as a team, in the interests of citizens and justice, because the biggest problem of society is the unpunished injustice. He wished Mrs. Cherneva successfully to join the good team of the Ombudsman. The President of the Commission said that a report from the hearing will be submitted, to which a draft decision on the election of the candidate for deputy ombudsman will also be applied.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u5	Please read the draft decision as well.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u6	Project! DECISION to elect a deputy ombudsman The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 11, para. 1 of the Law on the Ombudsman HAS DECIDED Elena Nikolova Cherneva-Markova is elected deputy ombudsman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u7	Thank you. Mrs. Kovacheva, you will be welcome to present Mrs. Cherneva's candidacy within five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u8	Madam President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen! On the basis of art. 11, para. 1 of the Law on the Ombudsman and in accordance with the rules adopted by Parliament for the election of Deputy Ombudsman, I propose to the National Assembly Mrs. Elena Cherneva-Markova's candidacy as Deputy Ombudsman. I will say that I propose this candidacy as a result of a very controversial choice and a hearing before the Ombudsman's institution. The procedure began on 24 June with three candidates. One of the applications was subsequently withdrawn. All three candidates were proposed by NGOs... [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u9	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u10	...with experience in the field of human rights. I would say that, indeed, both candidates presented themselves extremely dignified. They were heard by a very authoritative jury composed of representatives of the Constitutional Advisory Council of the Ombudsman, extremely authoritative lawyers, who had the opportunity to listen to the concept of the two candidates and also to ask questions. I will say, of course, as a matter of fact, that I was extremely impressed by both the candidates and Mrs. Cherneva and Mrs. Milko Nedyalkov. They were very strong, very bright candidates. If I had two positions for deputy ombudsman, I would immediately offer your attention to both of you. [[Noise, lines and partial applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u11	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u12	What the representatives of the members of the Advisory Council shared was that they were really very impressed with the candidates. What prevailed was only Mrs. Cherneva's legal education, the fact that she has completed the Law Faculty of Sofia University, the fact that she is a longtime lawyer and candidate for deputy ombudsman as Chairman of the Legal Aid Bureau. What I am going to say is that the work of the Ombudsman in the years as a whole is more and more connected with legal work, with legal advice to the citizens, to advise the people who are going through the Ombudsman's reception, and it is the only thing that has prevailed and which motivates me to offer your attention to Mrs. Cherneva's candidacy as a lawyer. Moreover, in the 15 years of life of the Ombudsman's institution so far, all ombudsmen and ombudsmen were lawyers by education. I hope that Mrs. Cherneva will be a worthy Deputy Ombudsman and I also hope that she will receive your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u13	Thank you, dear Mrs. Kovacheva. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. I can't see. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. I'm putting it to the vote. Project! DECISION to elect a deputy ombudsman The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 11, para. 1 of the Law on the Ombudsman HAS DECIDED Elena Nikolova Cherneva-Markova is elected deputy ombudsman. They voted 121 MPs: 93, none, abstention 28. The motion is accepted. Congratulations to Mrs. Cherneva! Mr. Lazarov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u14	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I propose that a shift in the so-called Program for the National Assembly's Work: point (s): second vote on the Bill for Amendment and Supplement to the Military Intelligence Act will become point four and the rest will be rearranged. The law is consensual, short, so please put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u15	Please, a voting regime to displace the program on Mr. Lazarov's suggestion. They voted 118 MPs: 115, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Damyanova, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u16	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! On the basis of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I request that the deadline for proposals between the first and second votes on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Pre-school and School Education Act be extended by another seven days.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u17	Thank you, dear Mrs. Damyanova. Please, a voting regime under the procedure so made by Mrs. Damyanova to extend the term under the Law on School and Preschool Education. They voted 102 MPs: 100, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the second item of today's agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR RADIO AND TELEVISION. Importer "Yevgeni Budinov" and group of MPs. Who's gonna introduce us to the report? Mrs. Chekanska, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u18	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a draft law supplementing the Law on Radio and Television, No 054-01-72, submitted by Evgeni Budinov and a group of MPs on 14 July 2020. At an extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media, held on 16 July 2020, a Draft Law for Supplement to the Law on Radio and Television was discussed, No 054-01-72, submitted by Evgeni Budinov and a group of MPs on 14 July 2020. On behalf of the importers, the Law was presented by Mr. Evgeni Budinov. The proposed Draft is regulated in the Law on Radio and Television providing the National Assembly with a signal from the Bulgarian National Television (BNT) for the open meetings of parliament, which are broadcast in real time on the Internet via its website. The proposal aims to settle this provision by establishing a new paragraph in art. 52 of the Law on Radio and Television. The proposed addition is necessary because in the current text of art. 52 of the Law, which has not been amended since 2010, has not reflected the changes provided for in the activities of the National Assembly in recent years through Internet broadcasting in real time. It deals only with the cases of free provision of program time by BNT to the Bulgarian Parliament, but not with their relations regarding the signal for the Internet broadcast, which have their regulation in the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. This legislative proposal will remove gaps in the framework of this matter, which, in the current emptiness in the legislation on the Internet broadcasting of the open meetings of the National Assembly in real time, could lead to discrepancies in the application of the rules of the Law on Radio and Television and the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. Following a vote, MPs from the Committee on Culture and Media unanimously proposed to the National Assembly by 16 votes to adopt a Draft for Supplement to the Radio and Television Act, No 054-01-72, submitted by Evgeni Budinov and a group of MPs on 14 July 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u19	Thank you, dear Mrs. Chekanska. Colleagues, are we going to have a debate? Mr. Kutev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u20	Madam President, honourable Members! This bill is very indicative of the way the National Assembly works. Somewhere around three and a half years since the National Assembly exists in this Chamber, with several colleagues, by the way, some of them, even on the right, are talking about how there should be changes in the Law on Radio and Television, we are talking about that especially public media have a serious problem in the way they operate. I am specifically trying to impose the theme of the public function of private media. I am talking about a comprehensive reform of the media space that is coherent in some way with the media themselves and which can lead to changes in the 111st place on freedom of speech that we find ourselves in. At the moment, people are protesting at the National Television every night because they believe that the way it reflects National Television, i.e. the main public media, is inadequate. A year and a half ago, we introduced a bill in which some of these problems, in my opinion, were quite adequately resolved. He passed about seven or eight months ago through the Media Committee, which evasively rejected him, but that does not mean that he should not enter the Chamber. Since two years ago, you promised from the Ministry of Culture and Vejdi Rashidov, who runs the portfolio committee in parliament, to make a new Law on Radio and Television. You did, you brought in, and you pulled out. The result is that after three and a half years of this majority's efforts, apart from rejecting our bill, which you dare not even submit to this House, and you must do so, you have not finished anything. Finally there is a bill headed by Mr. Budinov, who says we should go on the website of the National Television. That's all you've done. It's a complete failure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I put to the first vote a bill supplementing the Law on Radio and Television, No 054-01-72, submitted by Evgeni Budinov and a group of MPs on 14 July 2020. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Chekanska, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u22	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Procedure on the basis of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that we adopt a second vote Draft for Supplement to the newly adopted Draft for Supplement to the Law on Radio and Television, No 054-01-72, submitted by Evgeni Budinov and a group of MPs on 14 July 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u23	Please vote on Mrs. Chekanska's procedure. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mrs. Chekanska.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u24	THE LAW OF THE supplementing the Law on Radio and Television It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 52, para. is The Bulgarian National Television under terms and by contract provides the National Assembly with an alert for free and free use for open meetings, which are broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u25	Colleagues, speeches? I can't see. I put to the vote the name of the Law and paragraph alone. They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. Moving on to the third item of today's agenda: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW ON THE. The importer is Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs, on 25 June 2020. The Committee on Legal Affairs report will introduce us to Mrs. Alexandrova. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Bill supplementing the Law on Obligations and Contracts, No 054-01-56, submitted by Iskren Vasilev Veselinov and a group of MPs on 25 June 2020. At its meeting held on 15 July 2020, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law supplementing the Law on Obligations and Contracts, No 054-01-56, submitted by Iskren Vasilev Veselinov and a group of MPs on 25 June 2020. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Desislava Ahladova and Mr. Evgeni Stoyanov Deputy Ministers, Mrs. Daniela Belchina State Expert in the Department of Justice, Ms. Rositsa Petkova from the Ministry of Finance, State Expert in the Directorate of Economic and Financial Policy and Ms. Daniela Marcheva and Mrs. Olga Kerelska from the Supreme Court of Cassation, Mrs. Emanuela Balevska and Mr. Borislav Belzelkov Judges from the Sofia City Court, Mr. Stefan Kyurkchiev, Deputy Chairman and Mr. Alexander Angelov, Judge from the Supreme Lawy Council. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mr. Christian Mitev, who pointed out that it provides for the introduction of a 10-year absolute limitation period with regard to the private obligations of individuals. He added that the Republic of Bulgaria is the only Member State of the European Union that has not introduced the absolute limitation period for obligations of citizens or procedures for consumer insolvency. Mr. Mitev noted that there is no framework in the Bulgarian legislation that allows a natural person who is unable to pay his due obligations to start a bankruptcy procedure or to be relieved of his obligations after a certain period of time has expired. He pointed out that with the introduction of the 10-year absolute limitation period will not change the regime in force for a 3- and 5-year limitation period and debtors will be able to benefit from it. They are sufficiently protected and the interests of creditors, given the long period within which they can recover their claims. On the bill were received opinions from the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Finance and the Association of Banks in Bulgaria. Ms. Kerelska, Judge Belzelkov and Advocate Gigova agreed that the provisions on the starting point and exceptions for the application of the institute of absolute limitation and added that the 10-year period envisaged is extremely short given the duration of certain legal proceedings. Deputy Minister Ahladova noted that it is necessary to carry out transposition of Directive (EU) 2019/1023 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 on the framework for preventive restructuring, the remission of obligations and the ban on carrying out business, the measures to increase the effectiveness of the restructuring, insolvency and remission of obligations and amending Directive (EU) 2017/1132 (Restructuring and insolvency Directive) and added that the proposed limitation is not in line with the duration of the civil process in Bulgaria. The discussion was attended by the People's Representative Todor Baychev, who expressed his support for the Bill and noted that the proposed texts need to be refined. As a result of the discussion held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 20 votes for the Council, without abstention and abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for Supplement to the Law on Obligations and Contracts, No 054-01-56, submitted by Iskren Vasilev Veselinov and a group of MPs on 25 June 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u27	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. Will there be an importer's motive? Here you are, Mr. Veselinov, to brief us on the motives of the importers.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u28	Madam President, honourable Members! I'll be very brief. This is perhaps one of the most important bills we are looking at in this House during the entire term of office. It is important for a huge group of people in Bulgaria who, for one reason or another, had the inability to withdraw credits, paid them, were correct in a small period of time, then some unhappiness led them to the inability to pay and sink into a spiral called the eternal debtor figure. We have executive proceedings that last more than 10 years. Moreover, the debt that a person has is then transferred as an inheritance to his children and in general this debt chain has virtually no end. We are the only case in the European Union where there is no protection for the debtor in terms of time or in respect of any procedure that will allow him to resume his life after trying to repay his debts to his creditors. Moreover, during this entire period during which enforcement proceedings are carried out, there are punitive interest rates, other costs that aggravate and aggravate debt, so that it actually sometimes returns many times more than it was actually taken. According to our data, over 600,000 are such proceedings that are longstanding. That's hundreds of thousands of lives. Many of the people who are in this situation preferred to emigrate from Bulgaria so that they could receive some decent income abroad, where the bailiffs did not pursue them. Our proposal is quite balanced because the time limit for this absolute limitation is ten years, that is to say, throughout these ten years, the creditor has the opportunity to be satisfied with the income and the property of the debtor. In the context of the discussion in the Commission, it has been mentioned several times that this period is not consistent with the length of legal proceedings in Bulgaria, which are indeed sometimes long, but in fact we have had in mind the length of these proceedings, so we have not excluded the suspension of the limitation period during a case, but only its interruption. However, the importers believe that there is no problem to correct the text and explicitly exclude the period during which legal cases from this 10-year limitation are being conducted. In any case, I thank all the MPs from all the parliamentary groups for supporting this initiative and I believe that in a constructive dialogue, including with the organisations representing creditors, we will find the necessary balance so that, first of all, we protect the interests of the citizens, but, of course, we do not move the burden and not leave the negatives only with the creditors. I call on you to support this bill. I really think that it will be a breath of air for tens of thousands of people in Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. There aren't any. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. We are voting for a bill to supplement the Law on Obligations and Contracts, No 054-01-56, submitted by Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on 25 June 2020. This is the first reading of the Law. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The motion is accepted. Moving on to point four: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR MILK DISCLOSURE. Importers suppose Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs, on 1 July 2020, adopted on the first vote on 9 July 2020. Here you go, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u30	Madam President, I ask that before we proceed to the review of the Bill you put to the vote for admission in the Chamber of the Deputy Minister of Defence Mr. Zaprianov and Colonel Velko Atanasov, who is currently acting as Head of the Service of Military Information.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u31	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. Please vote on the admission of these gentlemen by Mr. Lazarov. Vote 94 MPs: 92, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Here you go, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u32	On 9 July 2020, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2016/849 on the conclusion of a Protocol on financial and technical cooperation between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Moldova on the participation of the Republic of Moldova in the implementation of the Protocol on financial and technical cooperation between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Moldova on the participation of the Republic of Moldova in the implementation of the Agreement on the financial and technical cooperation between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Moldova on the financial and technical cooperation between the "Improvement and Supplement to the Military Intelligence Act." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 4 be rejected. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6, which shall become § 5. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 6. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8, which shall become § 7. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 9 be rejected. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10 which shall become § 8. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 9. According to § 12 there is a proposal of the MPs Vladimir Toshev and Desislava Kostadinova-Gusheva: In § 12, t. 2 to be The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12, which shall become § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24, para. 6, p. 4 the words............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13, which shall become § 11. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 12. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15, which shall become § 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u33	Are there any speeches, colleagues? I can't see. We vote on the name of the Law; the text of the importer for paragraphs 1, 2 and 3; the rejection of § 4; the text of the importer for paragraphs 5, 6, 7 and 8, which become paragraphs 4, 5, 6 and 7 respectively; the rejection of § 9; the text of the importer for paragraphs 10 and 11, which become paragraphs 8 and 9; the version of Paragraph 12 respectively; the version of Paragraph 12 respectively, which becomes § 10 of the Commission Report; the text of the importer for paragraphs 13, 14 and 15, which become paragraphs 11, 12 and 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u34	Vote 95 MPs: 92, none, abstention 3. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u35	According to § 16 there is a proposal of the MPs Vladimir Toshev and Desislava Kostadinova-Guseva, § 16 to drop out. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 16 be rejected. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17, which shall become § 14. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 18, which becomes § 15. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19, which shall become § 16. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20, which shall become § 17. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21 which shall become § 18.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u36	Are there any speeches, colleagues? I can't see. I shall put the following texts to the vote: the Commission's proposal not to support the importer's text for § 16, as well as the importer's text for paragraphs 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, which receive a corresponding numbering of 14, 15, 16, 17 and 18. 88 MPs voted: 86, none, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u37	According to § 22 there is a proposal of the MPs Vladimir Toshev and Desislava Kostadinova-Gusheva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 22 be rejected. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 23 which shall become § 19. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 24, which shall become § 20. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 25, which shall become § 21. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 26, which shall become § 22. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 27, which shall become § 23. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 28, which shall become § 24. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 29, which shall become § 25. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 30, which shall become § 26.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u38	Statements? I won't. I shall put the following texts to the vote: the Commission's proposal to reject § 22 by importer, as well as the importer's texts for paragraphs 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29 and 30, which shall receive a corresponding numbering of 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25 and 26. Vote 92 MPs: 90, none, abstention 2. The proposed texts have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u39	"Additional provision'. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the division of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 31, which shall become § 27. 'Concluding provisions'. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the division of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 32, which shall become § 28. Proposal of the MPs Vladimir Toshev and Desislava Kostadinova-Gusheva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 33, which shall become § 29: ........................ 29...................................................... In the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria (prom., SG No. ...) all over the words "Military information" "Military information" and "Military information" are replaced by "Military intelligence service." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 34, which shall become § 30. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 35, which shall become § 31. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 36, which shall become § 32. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 37, which shall become § 33. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 38, which shall become § 34.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u40	Are there any speeches? I won't. I will put to the vote the following texts: the name of the section of the Law..Additional provision................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Vote 97 MPs: for 96, against none, abstention 1. The proposed texts have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u41	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 39, which shall become § 35. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 40, which shall become § 36. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 41, which shall become § 37. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 42, which shall become § 38. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 43 which shall become § 39. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 44, which shall become § 40. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 45, which shall become § 41. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 46, which shall become § 42. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 47, which shall become § 43. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 48, which shall become § 44.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u42	Are there any speeches? I can't see. I vote on the following texts: the texts of the importer for paragraphs 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47 and 48, which become paragraphs 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43 and 44 respectively. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. All proposed texts have been adopted. With this we completed the second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Military Intelligence Act. Let's continue with: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR UNDERSTANDING PROGRAMS. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The law was passed on the first vote on May 21st and we are continuing. Who's gonna introduce him? Mr. Nikolov. The last text adopted is the text of the importer for § 33 which becomes § 34, so we will start with § 34 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 34, which shall become § 35: .............................................................................. Article 47 is amended as follows: Art. 47. (1) An application for participation in a competition or tender may submit any natural or legal person or their associations for which there is no grounds for exclusion under art. 23, para. 2 and meets the requirements of art. 23a, para. 1. A person who has submitted an application shall have the rights of a candidate in the contest or in the tender. From the date of submission of a tender, the person acquires the rights of a participant in the contest or in the tender. (2) A natural or legal person may participate in only one association. (3) Associated persons may not be independent candidates or participants in the same contest or tender, including as participants in different associations. (4) The competition or tender documents shall not require that the associations have a specific legal form in order to be able to submit an application. (5) The application shall be submitted on a specimen approved by the Minister of Energy. (6) The application shall contain: 1. the three names, respectively the name of the applicant, contact details including e-mail address, single identification code under art. 23 of the Commercial Register Act and the Register of Non-Profit Legal Entities, BULSTAT and/or other identifying information in accordance with the law of the country in which the applicant is established; 2. the declarations referred to in art. 23, para. 3; 3. in the case of candidates, a copy of the union contract is signed and, where there is no contract or contract does not specify the person representing the participants in the association, and a document signed by the members of the association stating the representative; 4. information on how and the date of purchase of the competition or tender papers, on payment of the fee for participation and on the deposit for participation; 5. the documents referred to in the competition papers or in the tender papers referred to in art. 23a proving the fulfilment of the requirements concerning financial, technical and professional capabilities; 6. other documents and/or information specified by the order or by the decision to open the proceedings and in the competition or tender; 7. a list of documents and information contained in the application signed by the applicant. (7) The application shall be placed in a sealed non-transparent packaging marked with the inscription "Application for participation in a competition/trade', indicating the name of the area or property. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 35, which shall become § 36, by: 1. In para. 2 the words "sitting/ sittings' shall be replaced by "sitting'; 2. In para. the word "Precisely' is deleted; 3. In para. 4 the word "extreme" is deleted. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 36, which becomes § 37, as in para. 3 the figure "supplied' is replaced by "supplied', and the word "supplied' is replaced by "supplied', and in para. 4 the word "may" is replaced by "may." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 37, which shall become § 38. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 38, which shall become § 39, in c. 5 the word "may" is replaced by "may" is replaced by "may." The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 39, which becomes § 40, and the word
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u44	Are there any speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 34 by importer, which shall be § 35; the text of the importer for § 35, which shall be § 36 with the amendments proposed by the Commission; the text of the importer for § 36, which shall be § 37 with the proposals for replacement in the text made by the Commission; the text of the importer for § 37, which shall be § 38; the text of the importer for § 38, which shall become § 39 with the proposal for replacement by the Commission; and the text of the importer for § 39, which shall become § 40 with the proposal for replacement in the text made by the Commission. Vote 80 MPs: 76 against 1, abstention 3. The proposed texts have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u45	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 40, which shall become § 41, by: 1. In para. 2, p. 1 the word "the name" is replaced by "the three names" and the words "the words" of "the name" are deleted; 2. In para. The second sentence is deleted. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 41, which shall become § 42: .............................................................................. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 51a: Art. 51a. (1) The Minister of Energy shall carry out the coordination under art. 26, para. 1 where the application complies with the requirements. (2) After receiving all opinions under art. 26, para. 1 where they are positive, a notice of forthcoming authorisation shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and on the website of the Ministry of Energy. (3) When within the term referred to in art. 39, para. 1, t. 3 another candidate expressed interest for the same area and for the same group of underground riches, received documents under art. 51, para. Three go back to the candidate. (4) With the expiry of the term referred to in art. 39, para. 1, t. 3 where no interest is sought for the same area and for the same group of underground riches by another applicant, proceedings shall be opened to grant permission to search and study or to study by law. (5) Officials of the Ministry of Energy shall examine the work programme under art. 51, para. 3 c 30-day period from the opening of the proceedings under para. 4. Where the programme does not comply with the established technical or technological standards, the applicant shall be informed in writing to correct it in accordance with the instructions given to it within 30 days of receipt of the notification. The applicant shall be notified in writing of the adoption of the work programme within the time limit for its examination. (6) Where the applicant has not indicated an e-mail address and is not found at the address specified by him, the notifications under para. 5 shall be published on the website of the Ministry of Energy for a period of three months. In these cases, the 30-day time limit for the adjustment of the work programme shall start from the date on which the three-month period has expired. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 42, which shall become § 43 as in para. 1 t. 1 is amended as follows: "1." for the applicant there is grounds for exclusion under art. 23, para. 2 or does not meet a requirement under art. 23a, para. 1);supposed to be in the form of a combination of two or more of the following forms: The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 43, which shall become § 44. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 44, which shall become § 45, as in para. 2 words "3-months' shall be replaced by "three-monthly'.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u46	Are there any speeches? I won't. I will put to the vote the following texts: the text of the importer for § 40, which becomes § 41 with the proposed version in the text by the Commission; the version proposed by the Commission for § 41, which becomes § 42; the text of the importer for § 42, which becomes § 43 with the proposed editorial amendment by the Commission; the text of the importer for § 43, which becomes § 44; and the text of the importer for § 44, which becomes § 45, with the proposal for replacement made by the Commission. They voted 83 MPs: 81, none, abstention 2. The proposed texts have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u47	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 45, which shall become § 46: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. Article 54 is amended as follows: Art. 54. (1) For the granting of a concession for mining by law under the conditions of art. 29, para. 1 a written application, including by electronic means, shall be submitted to the Minister of Energy, which shall contain: 1. the three names, respectively the name of the applicant, contact details including e-mail address, single identification code under art. 23 of the Commercial Register Act and the Register of Non-Profit Legal Entities, BULSTAT and/or other identifying information in accordance with the law of the country in which the applicant is established; 2. Underground riches under art. 2 for which the concession is requested; 3. the name, location and coordinates of the characteristic boundary points of the concession area; 4. number and date of commercial discovery certificate; 5. information on how and the date of payment of the fee due on application. (2) The application shall be accompanied by: 1. the declarations referred to in Article 1. 23, para. 3 and the documents referred to in art. 23a; 2. a plan for the development of the field with a brief description of the objectives, the deadlines for its initiation, the type, volume, methods, the duration and value of the activities envisaged, as well as measures for the conservation of the earth's bowels and the environment, including information under art. 51, para. 2 of the Water Act, the safety of the population and human health and cultural values; 3. conceit justifications for legal and financial and economic justification corresponding to the requirements laid down in Annex No 2. (3) Officials of the Ministry of Energy shall verify the availability of the required information and documents within 14 days of the submission of the application under para. 1. In the event of irregularities and/or deficiencies, including where the establishment development plan does not comply with the laid down technical or technological standards or with the conditions and measures provided for by an entry into force in accordance with Chapter 6 of the EEA Agreement or the legal or financial justifications are not in accordance with the requirements of Annex No 2, the applicant shall be notified in writing with an indication of the irregularities and/or incompletes identified, instructions and a time limit for their removal, which shall not be shorter than 30 days and longer than 60 days from the notification thereof. The applicant shall be indicated that the non-repair of findings of irregularities or deficiencies within the prescribed time limit is grounds for termination of proceedings on the application submitted. (4) Where the applicant has not indicated an e-mail address and is not found at the address specified by him, the notification under para. 3 shall be published on the website of the Ministry of Energy for a period of three months. In this case, the time limit set for the removal of irregularities and/or incompleteness and/or correction of the development plan and/or justifications shall start from the date on which the quarterly period has expired. (5) With the receipt of all opinions under art. 26, para. 1 where they are positive, the procedure for granting a concession by law shall be deemed to be open and the applicant shall be notified in writing. (6) The Minister of Energy shall, in a reasoned manner, terminate the proceedings on the application submitted for the grant of a concession for extraction where: 1. one of the conditions under art. 1 is not fulfilled. 29, para. 1; 2. for the applicant there is grounds for exclusion under art. 23, para. 2 or does not meet the requirement of art. 23a, para. 1; 3. the applicant has not removed irregularities or incompletes within the term under para. 3 or 4; 4. a written request has been made by the holder of a commercial discovery certificate; 5. the applicant has declared or submitted false information; 6. there is no one of the conditions under art. 39, para. 2, p. 5; 7. there is a reason under art. 7. 54b, para. 3. (7) In the cases under para. 6 the holder of a commercial discovery certificate shall not be liable for any compensation for the costs incurred by him. (8) The Act of the Minister of Energy for the termination of proceedings for the granting of a concession for mining by law may be appealed under Section IV of Chapter 10 of the Administrative Procedure Code. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 46, which shall become § 47. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 47, which shall become § 48, as in para. 2 the word "may" is replaced by "may" and the words "3-months' shall be replaced by "three-monthly'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 48, which shall become § 49, as in para. 1 the words "sizes' shall be replaced by "compatible with'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 49, which shall become § 50. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 50, which shall become § 51.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u48	Are there any speeches on the texts presented? I will put to the vote the following texts: the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 45 which becomes § 46; the text of the importer for § 46, which becomes § 47; the text of the importer for § 47, which becomes § 48, with the proposals for replacement in the text made by the Commission; the text of the importer for § 48, which becomes § 49, with the proposal for replacement made by the Commission; and the texts of the importer for paragraphs 49 and 50, which become paragraphs 50 and 51 respectively. Vote 75 MPs: for 73, no objection, abstention 2. The proposed texts have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u49	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 51, which shall become § 52: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Chapter 2 of Part Two, Section III is created. 57a: Art. 57a. (1) A concession for the extraction by law of a state enterprise under art. 39, para. 2, p. 5 shall be made available at the request of the Minister who is designated as the body of management of the undertaking to the Minister of Energy. (2) The request shall contain information on: 1. the need to grant the concession and to fulfil the conditions under art. 39, para. 2, p. 5; 2. the name, location and coordinates of the characteristic boundary points of the field; 3. the coordinates of the characteristic boundary points of the concession area; 4. the properties of state property within the scope of the area of use; 5. prepared by the state enterprise plan for the development of the field with content according to art. 54, para. 2, p. 2 and financial economic justification; 6. the declarations referred to in art. 23, para. 3 and a statement that the entity has the necessary financial, technical and professional capacity to carry out the extraction. (3) The Minister of Energy shall carry out the coordination under art. 26 and assess the appropriateness and legality under the conditions laid down in art. 56, para. 1, t. 1, 2 and 3 of the proposal for granting a concession for extraction, and submit to the Council of Ministers a reasoned proposal for granting a concession, a draft decision of the Council of Ministers and a draft concession contract. (4) The Council of Ministers shall adopt a decision to grant a concession by law to the State undertaking. The decision is with the content of art. 54a, para. 3. (5) The Minister of Energy and the State Enterprise shall conclude a concession contract within three months of the entry into force of the decision under para. 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 52, which shall become § 53. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 53, which shall become § 54. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 54, which shall become § 55. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 55, which shall become § 56. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 56, which shall become § 57. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 57, which shall become § 58. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 58, which shall become § 59: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 64 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 words.............................................................................. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in 2. A new para is being created. 3: The actual costs under para. 1 and 2 shall be certified by a registered auditor before they are deemed to have been carried out by the Minister of Energy. 3. Previously on AMC's... 3 " 5" becomes respectively. 6. 4. So far, the Al. 6 becomes para. 7 and in it the words.......... 17.............................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 59, which shall become § 60. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 60, which shall become § 61.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u50	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 51, which shall become 52; the wording of the importer for paragraphs 52, 53, 54, 54, 55, 56, 57, respectively, as well as the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 58, which shall become 59; the text of the importer for paragraphs 59 and 60, which shall become respectively paragraphs 60 and 61. They voted 83 MPs: 79, against 1, abstention 3. The proposed texts have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u51	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 61, which shall become § 62. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 62, which shall become § 63, by: "1." in art. 66b, para. 2 the words "sizes' shall be replaced by "sizes'; 2. in art. 66c, para. 1 words.............................................................................. 36, para. 2 and 3 and shall be deleted, and in para. 2 and 3 the figure Under paragraph 63, there is a proposal from the MP, Jevdet Chakarov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 63, which shall become § 64: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 67 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2: (a) A new item shall be created. 7. "7." where, within three years of the entry into force of the concession contract, the extraction of underground wealth has not started for reasons for which the concession holder is responsible, not submitting an application or a request for the initiation of a special law procedure, failure to comply with instructions from a competent authority in the conduct of a special law procedure and others; b) the current t. 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 2. In para. 3 the words the person of the law shall be replaced by the trader and after the words "art." 23 "Says 23 "a.k.a. 23 " is added. 3. In para. 4 the words the person of the law shall be replaced by the trader and after the words "art." 23 "Says 23 "a.k.a. 23 " is added. 4. The creation of para. 5. The contract for concession under Art. 1 (a) and (b) shall be signed on behalf of the contracting authority. 66a shall end on: 1. the occurrence of any of the grounds under para. 2, p. One, two, four, eight. 2. termination of the activities of the state undertaking, unless by law another state undertaking is designated to be transferred the rights and obligations of the concession; 3. violation of the prohibition under art. 66a, para. 1, t. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 4. the occurrence of another condition defined by the law with which the State enterprise is formed. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 64, which shall become § 65. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 65, which shall become § 66, in that regard. 1 the words "In the main text" shall be replaced by "In the text before." 1.................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 66, which shall become § 67. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 67, which shall become § 68, and after the words................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Art. 71a 71c. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 68, which shall become § 69: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 75 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the words......................................................................................................... 2. In para. 2 after the words the interested party shall be added to which are granted rights for the underground riches under art. 2, para. 1, t. 1.? 4?.............................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 69, which shall become § 70. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 70, which shall become § 71.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u52	Are there any speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the text of the importer for § 61 which becomes § 62; the text of the importer for § 62 which becomes § 63 with the proposal for replacement in the text of the importer made by the Commission; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 63 which becomes § 64; the text of the importer for § 64 which becomes § 65; the text of the importer for § 65 which becomes § 66 with the proposal for replacement in the text made by the Commission; the text of the importer for § 66 which becomes § 67; the text of the importer for § 67 which becomes § 68 with the proposal for supplementing the text made by the Commission; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 68 which becomes § 69§; the text of the importer for § 70; and § 70 which becomes § 71. Vote 91 MPs: for 89, against none, abstention 2. The proposed texts have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u53	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 71, which shall become § 72. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 72, which shall become § 73. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 73, which shall become § 74, and the word "may' shall be replaced by "may'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 74, which shall become § 75, as in art. 92b para. 2 is amended as follows: For the results of the checks carried out, a constant report shall be drawn up. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 75, which shall become § 76. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 76, which shall become § 77. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 77, which shall become § 78. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 78, which shall become § 79. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 79, which shall become § 80. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 80, which shall become § 81.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u54	Are there any speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the text of the importer for paragraphs 71 and 72, which shall become paragraphs 72 and 73; the text of the importer for § 73, which shall become § 74 with the proposal for replacement made by the Commission; the text of the importer for § 74, which shall become § 75 by the editorial amendment proposed by the Commission; the text of the importer for paragraphs 75, 76, 77, 78, 79, respectively; the text of the importer for paraphics 79, 80 by the editorial amendment proposed by the Commission; the text of the importer for paragraphs 80 and 81 respectively. They voted 83 MPs: 79, none, abstention 4. The proposed texts have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u55	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 81, which shall become § 82. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 82, which shall become § 83, in that regard. 1 the words "receipt' and the other words "receipt' shall be replaced by "e.g. a sample of the recovered property card'; 2.1 words. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 4 to amend this Regulation by means of implementing acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 4 (2). 29, para. 1.................................................................................. "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 83, which shall become § 84: ss s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s u s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s u s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s u s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s u s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s(1 ) Applications for the grant of concessions lodged within the time limits laid down in §4 , 4a or 4b of the transitional and final provisions of the repealed Law on concessions(promise , SG No....) , for which no decision of the Council of Ministers has been adopted until the entry into force of thisAct , shall be dealt with under the terms and conditions ofpara . The (2) Candidates applying under para. 1 shall provide the Minister of Energy with the concession analyses........................................................................................................................................................................ 23, para. 3 and the documents referred to in art. 23a, para. 3, 4 and 5. (3) Within three months of the entry into force of this Act, the Minister of Energy shall notify the candidates in writing of the obligation under para. 2. The period for granting the concessional analyses, declarations and documents under para. 2 is three months from receipt of the notification. (4) The concession analyses, declarations and documents under para. 2 shall be checked within 14 days of their submission. In the event of irregularities and/or incompleteness, including where the concession analyses do not comply with the requirements of Annex No 1, a written notification shall be sent to the applicant indicating the irregularities and/or incompletes identified, instructions and a period for their removal which may not be shorter than 30 days and longer than 60 days from receipt of the notification. (5) When within the term under para. The required concessional analyses, declarations and documents under para. 3 sentence 2 shall not be presented. 2, respectively, in the term under para. 4 sentence 2 does not remove irregularities and/or incompletes, the right to receive a concession without tender or competition shall be repaid from the date of expiry of the term under para. 3 sentence two, respectively, the term under para. 4th sentence, second sentence. (6) The Minister of Energy shall carry out the coordination under art. 26 after acceptance of the concessional analyses, declarations and documents under para. 2. (7) The Minister of Energy shall assess the appropriateness and legality of granting a concession for extraction under the conditions laid down in art. 56, para. 1 where all opinions received under art. 26, para. 1 are positive. (8) Within 6 months of receipt of the opinions under para. 7 The Minister of Energy shall submit to the Council of Ministers a reasoned proposal for granting a concession, a draft decision of the Council of Ministers and a draft concession contract. (9) The Council of Ministers shall adopt a decision to grant a concession for mining by law. The decision shall contain the props under art. 54a, para. 3. (10) For the extraction of underground wealth until the conclusion of the concession contract, respectively until the right to obtain a concession without tender or competition, candidates under para. 2 pay a concession payment determined in accordance with the order of art. 61, together with interest and VAT due for the period concerned. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 84, which shall become § 85: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss (1) The concessionaires in the contracts concluded for concession for the extraction of underground riches under the repealed para. 2 of art. 3 of the Law on Underground Treasures, which are not brought into line with the legislation in force, provide the Minister of Energy with the declarations under art. 23, para. 3 and the documents referred to in art. 54, para. 2, p. 2 and 3, in case they didn't provide them until the entry into force of this law. Contracts concluded shall be aligned with the legislation in force. (2) Within three months of the entry into force of this Act, the Minister of Energy shall notify the concessionaires in writing of the obligation to provide the declarations and documents under para. 1. The deadline for granting them shall be three months from receipt of the notification. (3) When within the term under para. The required documents or concession contract under para. 2 shall not be presented. 1 shall not be brought into line with the legislation in force, the same shall be terminated by a decision of the Council of Ministers on grounds of conflict with the law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 85, which shall become § 86, as in para. 2 the words "this law" shall be replaced by "the Underground Service." The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 86, which becomes § 87 as para. 2 is amended as follows: The provisions of this Law concerning the amendment, including the period, and the termination of the contracts, and the provision of § 86 shall apply to the contracts under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. The Commission generally supports the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 87, which becomes § 88: ...... 88............................................................................ The procedures for granting permissions for search and research or for research or concessions for the extraction of underground riches have been initiated and not completed until the entry into force of this law, shall be completed in the current order.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u56	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the text of the importer for § 81, which shall become § 82; the text of the importer for § 82, which shall become § 83 with the proposals for replacement in the text made by the Commission; the text of the importer for the name of the division; the text of the sub-unit; the wording proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 84, which shall be § 85; the text of the importer for § 85, which shall become § 86 with the proposals for replacement in the text made by the Commission; the text of the importer for § 86, which shall become § 87 with the proposal for replacement in the text made by the Commission; the wording proposed by the Commission for the text of § 87, which shall be § 88. Vote 92 MPs: 88, against 3, abstention 1. The proposed texts have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u57	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 88, which shall become § 89, by: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The Council of Ministers shall adopt the regulation referred to in Article 1. 61, para. 3 within one year of the entry into force of this law. 2. In para. 2 the word "Normatives" is replaced by "Sub-Laws." A proposal from the MP Jevdet Chakarov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 90: .............................................................................. For concession contracts which entered into force until the entry into force of this law, under which no mining activity has begun, the three-year term under art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1, t. 7 starts from the entry into force of this law. A proposal from the MP Jevdet Chakarov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 91: .............................................................................. For concessions for the extraction of underground riches, which expire within 6 months before or up to one year after the entry into force of this law, the concessionaire may make a reasoned proposal under art. 36, para. 2 or 3 within 6 months of the entry into force of this law, provided that the conditions under art. 36, para. 2 or 3. Under § 89, there is a proposal of the National Representative Valentin Nikolov, made in accordance with Article 89. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European The Commission supports the proposal. [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u58	Colleagues, if you continue, I'll make an observation. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u59	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 89, which shall become § 92: ................. In the Law on Forests (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1: (aa) point 1 is amended as follows: "1." for carrying out activities related to search and exploration or to exploration of underground wealth on the basis of an authorisation issued under the Underground Capitals Act for the duration of the authorisation; (bb) The creation of a t. 4. "4." for carrying out activities related to the excavation of underground riches on the basis of a concession granted for mining under the Underground Capitals Act for the period during which the excavation activities will be carried out in accordance with a working project agreed under the Law on Underground Treasures. (b) in para. 2, p. 2 after the words "al." 1, t. The following shall be added to the list: 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1, t. 2 the words for carrying out activities related to the search and investigation of underground wealth under the Law on Underground Resources shall be replaced by the words in the cases referred to in art. 69, para. 1, t. 1 and 4 (b) in para. 2: (aa) in the text before t. 1 the words............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. (bb) point 1 is amended as follows: "1." a search and survey permit or a study issued under the Law on Underground Treasures or a contract to grant a concession for mining together with the agreed under the Law on Underground Treasures Work project; (c) in para. The second sentence of the second sentence is that activities related to the search and exploration of the underground capitals are replaced by activities related to search and research, or by research, or by further research of the underground capitals. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 71, para. 1 after the words "al." 1, t. The following shall be added to the list: 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 72, para. 3 words................................................................................. 1 and 3 One, three and 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 sentence 2 is finally added as for land properties in forest areas whose purpose has been changed for underground mining concessions, the application shall be submitted within three years of the entry into force of the change of destination act. (b) paragraph 10 is repealed. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 160, para. 2 and 3 the figure Proposal of the National Representative Valentin Nikolov, made in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 93: ..... 93......................................................................... Land properties in forest areas whose purpose has been changed for concessions for mining of underground riches after 9 April 2011 until the entry into force of this law and for which the price due under art. 78, para. 1 of the Forest Act is paid within the specified time limit, shall be sold to the person at whose request the change of purpose has taken place under the terms and conditions of art. 79 of the Forest Law. The deadline for submission of the applications for purchase is three years from the entry into force of this law. The Commission does not support the wording of the importer for § 90 and proposes to reject it. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 91, which shall become § 94. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 92, which shall become § 95: .................................................................................. In the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land (prom., SG No. Art....) 25, para. 3, p. 4 is amended as follows: "4." the implementation of activities under concessions under the Underground Treasures Act and investment projects related to the socio-economic development of the municipality. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 93, which shall become § 96: ...... 96........................................................................ In the transitional and final provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land in § 14, para. 1 after the words the infrastructure is added to the implementation of activities under the Law on Underground Acquisitions. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 94, which shall become § 97, in that regard. The words "in the main text" shall be replaced by "in the text before" in the text. 1..................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u60	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 88, which shall become § 89 with the proposed editorial amendments to the text by the Commission; the Commission's proposal to create a new § 90 with a text from the Commission's report; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 89, which shall become § 92; the Commission's proposal to create a new § 93 with a text according to the Commission's Report; the Commission's proposal to reject the text of § 90 by importer; the text of the importer for § 91, which shall become § 94; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 92, which shall become § 95; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 93; the text of the importer for § 94, which shall become § 97 with the proposal for replacement in the text made by the Commission. Vote 89 MPs: 84 against 5, no abstentions. All proposed texts have been adopted, with which we have completed the second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Underground Treasures. Moving on to: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE CIVIL CODEX. Importer is the People's Representative Krum Zarkov and a group of MPs. You have the floor for the presentation, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "Report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 054-01-3, submitted by Krum Kostadinov Zarkov and a group of MPs on 15 January 2020, adopted in the first vote on 5 February 2020. The Law on the Amendment and Supplement to the Civil Procedure Code. The Commission supports the text of the importer in principle by proposing that the name of the Law be amended as follows: "Accordance to the Civil Procedure Code'. Proposal of the National Representative Anna Alexandrova. The Commission does not support the proposal. I withdraw the offer, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u62	It's withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u63	Proposal of the National Representative Anna Alexandrova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Christian Mitev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Iglika Sabeva. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Krum Zarkov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1, which shall become the sole paragraph: I'm the only one. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 100a: "Intent" Art. 100a (1) Process actions may not contain threats, insulting or obscene words or qualifications. In this case, they are considered irregular. (2) Paragraph 1 shall not apply where the threats, offensive or obscene words or qualifications used relate to the circumstances on which the request is based.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u64	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the name of the Law with the new text and the version of § 1, which shall become the only one under the Commission's report. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Alexandrova, Minister Petkova is here to give us information on the topic.................................................................................. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u65	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The subject on which I would like to inform you is related to the topic discussed in recent days related to the cold reserve needed to ensure the country's electricity security. The meeting of the Council of Ministers just ended. There, too, this topic was the subject of discussion and at the order of the Prime Minister, I have a commitment to inform you of what is actually proposed as a decision, what has been made as a decision and what legislative changes it will be about. What will be done as a legislative change will provide that the cold reserve will be provided from now on... You know that we are currently negotiating with the European Commission on the introduction of a capacity mechanism. This capacity mechanism requires the implementation of several basic things, one of which is to remove the cold reserve. In this context, in this transitional period, the cold reserve will be awarded on the basis of a report by the Electricity System Operator and, if necessary, to the State thermal power plant for this period of time. That's what I wanted you to meet. You know this is a very important topic. In this way, on the one hand, the country's electricity security is guaranteed. The state thermal power plant Maritsa Iztok 2 is the largest power plant available, so these will be the proposals that we discussed with our colleagues, which will be made. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u66	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We continue with the Civil Procedure Code. Mrs. Alexandrova, proceed with § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u67	According to § 2 there is a proposal from the National Representative Christian Mitev. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Iglika Sabeva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 2 be rejected. Proposal of the National Representative Christian Mitev. The motion has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u68	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the rejection of § 2. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Let's continue with: THE LAWS FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE CIVIL PROCEEDING CODEX. You are welcome to brief us on the Report of the Committee on Legal Affairs on the two bills.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u69	Thank you, Madam President. Before I read the report, I would like to make a procedure for admission to the Chamber of the Deputy Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u70	I'm putting the procedure to the vote. They voted 98 MPs: 98, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guest to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u71	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 002-01-26, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 July 2020. At its meeting held on 15 July 2020, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 002-01-26, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 06 July 2020. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Justice: Mrs. Desislava Ahladova Deputy Minister, Mr. Evgeni Stoyanov Deputy Minister, Mrs. Daniela Belchina State Expert in the Directorate of Justice and by the Ministry of Finance: Mrs. Rositsa Petkova State Expert in the Directorate of Economic and Financial Policy and by the Supreme Judicial Council: Mrs. Daniela Marcheva Member, and Mrs. Olga Kerelska Member; by the Supreme Court of Cassation: Judge Emanuela Balevska and Judge Borislav Belazelkov; by the Sofia City Court: Judge Stefan Kurkchiev Vice-President; by the Sofia District Court: Judge Alexander Angelov President; by the Supreme Council of Law: Mr. Valya Gigova Member; by the Chamber of Justice: Mr. Nedelcho Mitev On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Deputy Minister Stoyanov, who pointed out that the proposed changes aimed at establishing a legal framework for the use of the video conference in the civil and administrative process, as well as extending the possibilities for using the video conference in the criminal process. The bill regulates the use of a video conference when conducting interviews and hearings in civil and administrative proceedings where the administrative body or the formation of justice and witnesses, property persons, parties, translators or speakers are physically located in different places in the territory of the country. It is envisaged that the collection of evidence be carried out by means of a video conference and at the initiative of the parties and in certain hypotheses and of the expert, and that the court should rule by a reasoned definition in order to justify the need to hold the video conference. The main proposals for changes to the PPC relate to the use of a video conference in carrying out judicial review of detention in pre-trial proceedings; in the course of questioning of a protected witness, translator or translator; in carrying out an eye rate, identification of persons and objects, as well as in examining the proposal or request of the convicted person for early release. It is envisaged for all procedural actions under the GPC, APC and PPC carried out through a video conference to draw up a protocol. The proposed changes will also optimize the deadlines for the completion of pre-trial and judicial proceedings, reduce the costs associated with ensuring the presence of the participants in the courtroom, including the costs of related institutions, the Ministry of Interior, the Directorate General for Punishment and the General Directorate for Security. Ms. Kerelska pointed out that the Supreme Judicial Council supports proposals by the Council of Ministers and suggested that the use of the video conference as a means of legal proceedings should not be limited only in cases of pandemic, but also in the rest of the time, thus saving funds and solving the problem of lack of highly qualified experts in different areas of the country. Lawyer Gigova noted that the holding of a hearing by means of a video conference, without a good reason, should be allowed only with the explicit consent of the parties and added that it is necessary to ensure the publicity of the process in the use of a video conference. Judge Balevska emphasized on the need for a regulatory settlement of the issues related to the issuance of the act for admission of a video conference in a court proceedings. The video conference will be held on whose request and the way to notify the parties. In the discussion took part the national representative Christian Mitev, who expressed his support for the Bill and noted that the proposed amendments will reduce the costs in the legal proceedings and will be of exceptional benefit in the conditions of a pandemic. On Mr. Mitev's question about the number of courts in which procedural actions will be carried out through a video conference, Mr. Stoyanov pointed out that the courts were selected on a geographical basis and that the courts located in the area could also benefit from this method. As a result of the discussion held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 20 votes for the Council of Ministers, No 002-01-26, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 July 2020, proposed to the National Assembly an amendment and supplement to the Civil Procedure Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Mrs. Ilieva, please come in for the second report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u73	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I will introduce you to: ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Legal Affairs on a Draft Law supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 054-01-67, submitted by Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs on 10 July 2020. At its meeting held on 15 July 2020, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 054-01-67, submitted by Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs on 10 July 2020. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Justice: Mrs. Desislava Ahladova and Mr. Evgeni Stoyanov Deputy Ministers, and Mrs. Daniela Belchina State Expert in the Directorate of Justice and by the Ministry of Finance: Mrs. Rositsa Petkova State Expert in the Directorate of Economic and Financial Policy and by the Supreme Court of Cassation: Judge Emanuela Balevska and Judge Borislav Bezelkov; by the Supreme Council of Law: Ms. Valya Gigova Member; by the Association of Banks in Bulgaria: Mrs. Eleonora Hristoforova Jurisconsult; by the Supreme Judicial Council: Mrs. Daniela Marcheva and Mrs. Olga Kerelska Members; by the Sofia City Court: Mr. Stefan Kyurkchiev Vice-President, and Mr. Alexander Angelov Judge; by the Chamber of the judicial executives: Mrs. Alga Kererelska. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Christian Mitev, who pointed out that it offered for the benefit of citizens and businesses the possibility of voluntary repayment of debts without a judicial procedure. It is envisaged that a court contractor may, at the request of a creditor, invite the debtor to pay the debt voluntarily, expressly telling the debtor that, in the event of default, the creditor may exercise his or her rights under judicial procedure. Mr. Mitev clarified that the procedure was terminated when the debtor challenged the claim or expired two months after the invitation to voluntary execution was served. The proposed project aims to ensure that, without additional costs, the debtor is able to stimulate the voluntary repayment of debts, as well as a reduction in the workload of the courts. The bill received an opinion from the Bulgarian Industrial Association. Mrs. Gigova and Mr. Belzelkov expressed reservations about the proposed bill. They pointed out that the scope of the Civil Procedure Code is civil proceedings and does not include the settlement of voluntary recovery of claims. It has been stated that judicial contractors are bodies entrusted with public-law functions and the powers envisaged violate fundamental legal principles. Ms. Ahladova explained that the proposals were considered in a working group with the Ministry of Justice and the texts were supported by the magistrates and the majority of the participants perceived the proposal as an appropriate means of reducing judicial workload. It added that a limitation of the scope of the voluntary recovery procedure to claims of a small size was discussed. People's representative Filip Popov took part in the discussion, who pointed out that from the Bulgarian BSP to Bulgaria. The Law will not support the bill, and added that the powers of the judicial contractors governed by the Law are contrary to the public enforcement functions entrusted by the Law on Private Judicial Contractors. As a result of the discussion held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 9 votes for the National Code, No 054-01-67, submitted by Valeri Simeonov and a group of Members of the National Assembly on July 10, 2020, proposed that a draft supplement to the Civil Procedure Code should not be adopted at the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u74	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ilieva. Motives of an importer? Mr. Mitev, come in for your bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u75	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will be as brief as possible, as the report has sufficiently well explained the reasons. The proposed bill aims to settle the possibility of voluntary fulfillment of monetary obligations without judicial procedure in support of citizens and businesses. For cash claims for which no executive sheet or other act subject to enforcement has been issued, it is envisaged that the court contractor may, at the request of a creditor, proceed to a procedure for their voluntary recovery. For this purpose, the creditor shall submit a request to the court contractor, which may also be submitted electronically with a qualified electronic signature. The court contractor, upon receipt of the request, shall be obliged to send an invitation for voluntary enforcement to the debtor, which shall contain a notification that the debtor is not convicted and may pay voluntarily within 14 days if he recognises the obligation and a warning that, in the event of default, the creditor may exercise his or her judicial rights. The procedure shall be terminated where the debtor contests the claim in writing or if two months have elapsed since serving the call for voluntary execution without payment of the bank account referred to in the invitation. In the event of a full or partial recovery of the claim, the creditor shall owe remuneration to the court contractor in the amount agreed between them, but not less than one tenth of the amount collected. The creditor owes a state fee of one tenth of the amount collected for the state contractors in the recovery of the claim. The proposed change aims to reduce the negative effects of the economic crisis and increase the burden of courts with civil, commercial and order procedures, as we have already seen in the economic crisis since 2009. Judicial proceedings will be reduced, while citizens and businesses will save considerable costs and will be given the opportunity to repay their obligations voluntarily without paying for the procedure. In this procedure, debtors are as protected as possible, there is no coercion or psychological harassment whatsoever, and they can terminate it at any time with a written statement that they dispute the obligation. This is common practice in many other countries of the European Union - France, the Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg, Romania, Greece, Lithuania, Slovenia and Serbia-Montenegro. This is a very successful method that allows the collection of claims at much less cost in these countries and also eases the workload of courts. I appeal for your support.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u76	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. You have the floor for speeches, colleagues. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u77	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Both in the Legal Commission and here in plenary, we will support the bill submitted by the Council of Ministers. As for the other bill submitted by Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs, we did not support it in the Legal Commission, we will not support it in the Chamber for the following reasons: First of all, the State entrusts judicial contractors with authority to collect private competitions. The only authority in Bulgaria that determines whether an obligation is subject to enforcement is the Bulgarian court. The bailiff shall execute the decisions of the court. That is why it is called a court contractor and not a judicial mediator or any other function. His power of authority is based solely on the executive title. This is an executive sheet or order for execution. The bailiff is not a commissioner, broker, notary, lawyer, arbitrator or any merchant. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 2 of the Law on Private Judicial Contractors is clearly stated that the private judicial contractor is a person to whom the State imposes force, I repeat, the enforcement of private disputes. This bill is in sharp contradiction with fundamental legal principles. There is no need for an intermediary to fulfil obligations voluntarily in the relationship. Why should this relationship be set up by a judicial contractor? Is it because of the commission rate? Voluntary execution may start with one invitation by post with a return receipt sent by the creditor to the debtor or with a notary invitation. Why create a contradiction between art. 2 of the Law on Private Judicial Contractors, which clearly describes the character and functions of the judicial contractor, and the Civil Procedure Code, replacing new, non-existent functions for the judicial performers? Any court performer may become a merchant, a commissioner, a broker and so on, but cannot reconcile both functions. The bill clearly translates lobbying texts. These are some of the reasons why it should not be supported in this House, as it has not been supported in the Legal Commission. This Parliament, this session is coming to an end. Do not at the end of the session of the National Assembly again run lobbyist texts through the Civil Procedure Code. We will vote against this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u78	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, guys. Mr. Mitev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u79	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In fact, what we have heard so far in the debates, to put it mildly, does not correspond to the truth, and for the following reasons. In fact, this is not a procedure for enforcement in order to need to have a court title, a court order, but a voluntary enforcement procedure is set up here, allowing the creditor to choose whether to use the services of the private judicial contractor or the public judicial contractor. He can send his own invitation, as mentioned. He can use the notary invitation through a notary. He can also use what is offered in this law. That is to say, there is another possibility of voluntary debt execution so as not to bring about a trial, a burden on the debtor and the debtor with fees and expenses. If we are actually talking here about some lobbying, lobbying is entirely for the benefit of citizens, businesses and the unloading of courts from court proceedings. By the way, we soon saw in this very room the Report of the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation in relation to the activities of the courts and it turns out that some of the most of the proceedings with which the district courts are currently entrusted are the proceedings which are under the orders for execution in the Civil Procedure Code. The trend, by the way, in the European Union, and the Council of Europe's recommendation, is for judicial contractors to be awarded more and more secondary activities. In most countries of the Union, they conduct legal consultations; in some cases they even represent the parties to the court; they issue documents that have a certified power of legal proceedings; they are involved in insolvency and confiscation proceedings; they manage real estate; they draw up constructive protocols with recognised evidence that certify facts and circumstances. This is in leading countries with regard to judicial enforcement. I will ask them again: " France, the Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg and many others. I do not see any reason why this procedure is not in place, I repeat, it is not of a binding nature. The lender will decide if he wants to, he won't take advantage of it. If he wants to, on the other hand, he will use the services of a court contractor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u80	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u81	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague Mitev, with your speech you confirmed the thesis regarding lobbying. Since you have practically said that there is no need for this bill, since there are a number of opportunities for voluntary implementation now, why are you doing this?! Why do you do it if you don't have to?! Obviously, lobbying here is in favor of several hundred people and major law firms. That's what you confirmed! Why are you opening the door to possible fraud in terms of voluntary gathering?! Because when a debtor arrives with an invitation from a court contractor, whether he is a private or a public judicial contractor, he will react in one way and will most likely start his execution to the creditor, even though there is no decision of the Bulgarian court to say whether it is really due and how much it is due. What you said in practice is indeed a confession to this lobbying text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u82	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Second line please, Mr. Baychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u83	Dear Mr. Mitev, Mrs. Chairman, Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Mitev, I disagree with your statement, especially in the part that this will be cheaper. On the contrary, I am beginning with the fact that the bailiff acts and does what the demandr wants, that is, he will be under the claim of the creditor, the demandr. Secondly, in this way his impartiality and independence will be lost. Thirdly, there will be financial benefits for the court contractor, especially if it is private, as some fees will be due. On the other hand, it is interesting to me in which order will the summoning and notification of the debtor be dealt with under the Civil Procedure Code by sticking to the door, or any other order?! These things are about to be cleared. They must be left in time in the current order, namely, as it is at the moment. That is what lawyers are doing, or the usual way is acting through a notary invitation, through the notary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u84	Thank you, dear Mr. Baichev. Third line? I can't see. Hole, Mr. Mitev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u85	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, who made the lines. I see there's been some confusion since there's been a mention of a demanding credit officer. We're talking about a creditor here. There is no demandr here, because in order to have a demandr, we need to be in the enforcement procedure. We're in this procedure. We're in the voluntary procedure. If we are talking about lobbying, it means that lobbying exists in half of the European countries that successfully use this formula. Again, I do not see what citizens will be charged with, as the fees to the private judicial contractor or to the public judicial contractor are not due by the persons to whom such invitations will be served, as no fees are due if you issue a notary invitation at the moment. I do not see any reason why, since a creditor can use a lawyer, he can use a notary, which is also entrusted to the State, that such functions may also be entrusted to the court performers. Moreover, I say again that for five years in France and in many other European countries the Netherlands, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, on the contrary, is used... [[Reply from MP Philip Popov.]] ...is not a protective execution, colleague Popov, is used exactly this procedure, exactly as we suggest. Once we have made the proposal in the Civil Procedure Code, it is logical for service to be done according to the order described there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-22.u86	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I first put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 002-01-26, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 July 2020. Vote 146 MPs: for 145, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the second Bill supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 054-01-67, submitted by Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs on 10 July 2020. Vote 145 MPs: 82 against 62, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, this was the last item on today's agenda. Tomorrow, July 23, 2020 "On a regular basis, the meeting shall be held at 9:00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
