ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u1	Colleagues who are online, please turn off your microphones when I call you by name, turn on the microphone and say: here so you can participate in the registration. Good afternoon, honourable Members, in the light of the decision we took on Friday, the meetings will be held together with colleagues who are quarantined or sick of CIVID-19, online. Now I'm going to include a procedure for registration of the hall. At the same time, to be on Constitution as it is roll call and personal, I will call on the microphone each of my colleagues who are online to confirm that they are here so that they can enter the shorthand protocol. Once the registration in the Chamber has passed, the number of colleagues who have confirmed online presence in the Chamber will be added to the number we register in the Chamber and, in fact, the sum between the registration in the Chamber and the number of colleagues who have confirmed participation online will be aggregated. This will be the number of registered ones. We're going to divide it into two, just like we do, so we can see what the quorum is. This will be recorded in the stenographic protocols and they will be part of the documentation of the meetings that we will be doing from now on. Please, registration mode. My colleagues online, I read one by one your names please say: here. Mr. Nenkov, can you hear me?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u2	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u3	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Anna Alexandrova? Mrs. Alexandrova, we expect you to say here. Mrs. Alexandrova, I expect you to register.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u4	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u5	Thank you. Mr. Kolev, I can't see. Mr. Apostolov, I can't see. Mr Popov, I can't see. Mr. Polychronov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u6	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u7	Mr. Shishkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u8	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u9	Mr. Shishkov also checked in. Mr. Nunev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u10	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u11	Do we have any other colleagues who are online? We don't have any other coworkers. Thank you, colleagues. Colleagues, we have 116 registered in the Chamber, five colleagues registered online " 121 MPs." Colleagues, there's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Sixty-one will be the quorum for voting. Thank you, colleagues. [[National Representative Georgi Mihailov wants the floor.]] First we'll take the agenda and then I'll give you the floor, Mr. Mihailov. Project for the work of the National Assembly for 11 November 2020: "1." Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Child Protection Act. Importers... Plamen Hristov and a group of MPs, 24 July 2020. Adopted at first vote on 8 October 2020. 2. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code. A joint project drawn up by the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee on the basis of the laws adopted at the first vote on 1 October 2020 with importers,.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 3. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Family Code. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 28 August 2020. Adopted in first vote on 23 September 2020. 4. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Water Act. Importers - Stanislava Stoyanova and a group of MPs, 23 October 2020 5. First vote on the Bulgarian sign language bill. Importer "The Council of Ministers," 7 October 2020 6. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Finance Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 22 October 2020. Adopted in first vote on 5 November 2020. Point 1 for Thursday, 12 November 2020 7. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Weapons, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles. Importers. suppliers Manoil Manev and a group of MPs, 3 September 2020. Adopted in the first vote on 2 October 2020. Point 2 for Thursday, 12 November 2020 8. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Reserve of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 17 August 2020. Adopted in first vote on 24 September 2020. Point 3 for Thursday 12 November 2020 9. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 9 July 2020. Adopted in first vote on 10 September 2020. Point 4 for Thursday, 12 November 2020 10. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Maritime Spaces, Inland Waterways and the ports of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 15 May 2020. Adopted in the first vote on 3 June 2020. Point 5 for Thursday, 12 November 2020 11. First vote on the Draft Law amending the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Environmental Protection. Importers suppose Ivelina Vassileva and a group of MPs, 23 October 2020 Point 1 for Friday 13 November 2020 12. First vote on the Draft Law amending the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Non-Profit Legal Entities. Importer of the Council of Ministers, on 15 October 2020 Point 2 for Friday 13 November 2020 13. Parliamentary Control "Friday 13 November 2020" following the conclusion of the legislative part of the meeting. Please, voting mode. They voted 152 MPs: 117, against 12, abstention 23. The motion is accepted. Mr. Zhivkov is also online. Mr. Mikhailov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, honourable Members! On the basis of art. 113 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I propose to hold a hearing of the Minister of Health Prof. Kostadin Angelov regarding the situation in the health system and the pandemic phenomenon COVID-19. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u13	Thank you, Mr. Mihailov. Out of the book is what you suggest. Mrs. Daritkova has a proposal back. Just to explain that such proposals under art. 53, para. 3 are made by 6:00 on Tuesday. There's no way today...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u14	[[BSP for Bulgaria, from place]] : Art. 113...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u15	Under art. 113... Somehow he has to get into the program. You should have come to the Conference of Presidents to make a decision and be able together... to be supported by the parliamentary groups. Here you are, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u16	Mrs. Chairman! I'm making a reverse offer. Dear colleagues from BSP for Bulgaria, your insolence is immense! [[Applause from GERB.]] You continue to sabotage the activities of the National Assembly, continue to hide in the towers of the National Assembly and appear here only when we are able to secure a quorum! Aren't you embarrassed by the colleagues we represent from the hospital rooms for oxygen treatment? Aren't you embarrassed by the Bulgarian citizens? [[Applause from GERB.]] What kind of opposition are you? [[Applause from GERB.]] It seems your guerrilla has remained deeply embedded in the genes and must be transmitted by blood, as you yourself say that socialism and participation in your political power is transmitted by blood. Dear colleagues, yes, this is a serious moment, yes, indeed the situation is critical, but if you are national responsible, you will be here in plenary [[Applause from GERB]] , you will make proposals that are in line with the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, because you have not even learned this as a name and you are not quoting it correctly! Dear colleagues, you know the order because we are in the fourth year of this term! Please, really take responsibility, stop with these little guerrilla games, because they do not benefit you! Colleagues, do you know what is happening in Bulgarian hospitals right now? If you were responsible, you would allow us who we can treat, be there on the first line and be useful, not to stand here, because you believe that the obligation of the people's representative is to come, to register to take a wage and again to go and sabotage all activities in the country, which at this time will be beneficial for exiting the health crisis. [[Applause from GERB]] Colleagues, do not support this proposal!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u17	I will not put it to the vote, Mrs. Daritkova, because it is not proposed properly. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Here you go, Mr. Svilenski.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mrs. Daritkova, we can't accept everything you say. Madam President, on the basis of which regulations and on which Rule of Procedure on Friday did you adopt this decision, by which you are now asking colleagues from the hospital to participate in the meeting?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u19	Well, because you're not taking part in the meeting and the registration, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u20	Madam President, wait until I do the procedure, then you have the opportunity to speak for two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u21	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u22	You're accusing us of not knowing the Rules for four years. I ask you, as President, did you learn the Rules and understand that on Friday, at 3:00 p.m., there is no way for you to put a draft decision to be voted on at 4:00 p.m. and for anyone to enter into force today, the meeting to be legitimate and to work? Madam President, Friday's session is illegal and you know it very well. 118 MPs were present in the hall during the roll call check. On that same date, with the same majority, do you make a legitimate decision on the functioning of the National Assembly today? You're still breaking it today. Today again, you do not have a mandate of the 121 minus the five colleagues you have raped to be on the monitors, again you do not have a quorum, again you want to show and overwhelm Bulgarian parliamentaryism! Mrs. Daritkova, we don't want the BSP to hear the minister. Bulgarian citizens want to understand what is happening in health care, Bulgarian citizens want to know where to treat... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u23	Mr. Svilensky, to me, not to Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u24	...which clinic to go to. All right, Madame Chairman, to you. Bulgarian citizens want this, not the MPs from BSP. And you, as a national responsible party and majority and parliament, I don't see why you're scared, why don't you want the minister? [[Heckling]] Mr. Christov, don't yell at me in the back. Come, there is a tribune. [[Heckling]] Well, if you can't control your nerves, you're obviously not up for this tribune.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u25	Mr. Svilensky, your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u26	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u27	Procedure? Mrs. Daritkova wants a personal explanation. I'll give you procedure. I guess that's how we're gonna work with procedures. I don't even want to comment on it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u28	Mrs. Chairman! I am sorry, colleagues, that we are not going to start working on the legislation in due time today, which is our main obligation, but we are provoked by colleagues from the BSP for Bulgaria, whom I have personally called to suggest in this difficult situation to participate in the registration in the morning in the National Assembly, because the virus does not spare anyone, neither the BSP, nor the DPS, nor the colleagues from the Patriots, nor our parliamentary group. So I explained to Professor Mihailov quite correctly this morning that if you participate in the registration, if you show your responsibility for your work as parliamentarians, we will support the request for a hearing of Minister Angelov. My fellow Members, I reiterate these words. Yes, it is important to listen to the Minister, but then, when you participate in the quorum, then when you participate in the Conference of Presidents, then when you are responsible MPs, and not just looking for a way to earn dividends from situations that are really critical, because in the future this nothing positive will bring you, believe me.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. Which one of the three? Figure it out, 'cause all three of you raise your hand.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u30	Madam President, I'm addressing you with a procedure. It is extremely unbeautiful at such a time to use the exact expression here is the language of hate. I do not want to remind and allow other things to happen to colleagues to lose their tempers, to talk about how it is transmitted and what is transmitted, to explain that if a parliamentary group is registered, something important will happen if it does not register will not happen, but it is important. Let's sit on the ground... [[Reply from the National Representative Lachezar Ivanov.]] Because you're flying in the air, Dr. Ivanov, with the behavior you're having right now, you're flying in the air.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u31	Please, Mr. Mikhailov!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u32	The truth is that we need this high tribune to hear Professor Angelov. If we register, we'll hear it if we don't register, we won't hear it. It's about the nation's interests. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] That's what's important here, not with the roller of the majority, to vote what you want. This is more important than anything else. Thank you, Madam President. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u33	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Personal explanation? [[Replication by National Representative Lachezar Ivanov: "Procedure! "]] We'll alternate the procedures. [[Reply from the National Representative Yavor Bozhankov.]] In a moment, Mr. Bojankov. [[Noise and lines.]] Please be quiet in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u34	Madam President, honourable Members! I think the time we live in shows who is responsible and how he is responsible. I think the cynicism that the BSP is currently showing us is passing any norm. I want to tell the chronology of their cynicism. Cynism begins with...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u35	It's a procedure in the manner of conduct, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u36	That's right. The procedure in the way of conduct is that every time we get a registration, the group of the BSP for Bulgaria is not sure how much it is for Bulgaria, they enter and start with procedural matches, with all attempts to boycott, sabotage the activities of the National Assembly. That's crossing the line. Moreover, our colleagues, who we saw from the screen from the hospital rooms, are there because many of the colleagues here from BSP were burning and throwing masks and saying that there is no such problem. [[(Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.) Applause by GERB.)]] Moreover, the chairman of your parliamentary group on Friday made a statement here and from here went directly to the Military Medical Academy. It's cynicism, colleagues! This is cynicism, gentlemen responsible to Bulgaria and Bulgarian citizens!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u37	To me, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u38	Moreover, the example was given by the President of the Republic of Bulgaria when he, informed that he had had contact with a diseased person at 16.30 on Sunday, left on Monday to... The procedure I said is what it is.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u39	Leading. What's the remark to me, Mr. Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u40	I want to finish because they don't like it. I want to finish that this is irresponsible behavior towards Bulgarian citizens. And I'll continue with the timeline. Mr. Dimitar Stoyanov also walked and spread viruses throughout the country for ten days. They went to study in...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u41	The procedure, Mr. Ivanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u42	It's exactly the procedure. Why did we do this particular way of registration? Because irresponsibility shifts all kinds of frames because these colleagues have not gone to see what is happening in hospitals, how people get tired, how colleagues are wondering how to distribute medicines, how to distribute the organization of the hospital, shut down...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u43	Your time is up, Mr. Ivanov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u44	...I want to hear this thing about how the wards are being closed so that beds can be uncovered for the treatment of patients. And here they go out and say they're a responsible party.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u45	Thank you, thank you, thank you, Mr. Ivanov. [[The President turns off the microphones. National Representative Lachezar Ivanov continues to speak with microphones off.]] Mr. Bojankov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u46	Mrs. Chairman! In the tradition of obviously this strange procedure and I will allow myself to address you not quite. When we talk about responsibility, fellow Members, our decision not to make a quorum has political logic consistent. Look at the agenda. What responsibility is involved when there are texts on your agenda in the midst of the biggest crisis that open the construction of the Black Sea?! What does this have to do with the health crisis, what does this have to do with the interests of the Bulgarians?! Lobby texts to build the Black Sea! Since March, we have been talking about private hospitals refusing to accept patients with COVID. [[GERB lines.]] Eight months later, the minister found that there was such a problem. What happened to the text that had to ban private hospitals from paying with our money seven times more expensive drugs? Where did this text go?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u47	To me, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u48	To you, Madam President, is my procedure, just as was the procedure of Mr. Ivanov, Mrs. Daritkova and all other procedures. Where is your responsibility and how do we make this quorum, how do we maintain your quorum in the morning when you, in the midst of the biggest crisis, insert lobbying text after a lobbying text that damages the state's budget?!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u49	Well, bring in something you guys from BSP! Come on, bring something in!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u50	Why and how do you expect us to support you? We will not legitimize this process, we will not participate in robbing the Bulgarian people during the biggest crisis.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u51	What's the point, Mr. Bojankov? [[Noise and lines.]] At least don't get in the way, guys. If you're not going to work, at least don't keep other colleagues from working. Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u52	Thank you. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! My procedure is with you because you said you would not put to the vote our proposal to hear the Minister. In accordance with art. 113 of our Rules of Procedure The National Assembly and the committees elected by it may hear on matters of state or public interest. Isn't the COVID-19 crisis such a question?! Don't you think it is, or is it? The Rules of Procedure in art. 113 provides that at any time, because this opportunity is not limited, ministers can be heard here in the Chamber on such matters. This is not a decision of the National Assembly, nor is it a bill to enter, as you say, under the order of art. 53, if memory serves me right, by the Rules of Procedure. So you should put this proposal to the vote in accordance with art. 113. If you do not want the Minister to come and be heard on these matters, reject him, but put him to the vote. Secondly, Madam President, do you not believe that with the so-called online registration and voting in practice from now on all decisions and bills of the National Assembly will be corrupted and attacked? Is there an opinion of the Legal Directorate of the National Assembly since March on this issue? If there is, what is it? Have you introduced the National Assembly to this position? If not, please also draw up and make available to the parliamentary groups and to the Members of the National Assembly. In this way, organizing the activities of the National Assembly through online registration, teasing, as colleagues said, over other colleagues to register from hospital rooms even, is unacceptable. It is unacceptable from a moral point of view, but you do so. You are trying to blame the BSP parliamentary group, which is clearly not working. Please answer these questions and allow to vote in accordance with art. 113 our proposal. Do not violate the Rules, at least the rest of the Rules, which you may still observe to some extent. Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u53	Thank you, Mr. Popov. I will remain silent, because insolentness sometimes takes frightening proportions in this Parliament, without addressing any group. I'm talking in general. [[Reply from MP Philip Popov.]] You know that by procedure MPs under art. 53, para. 3 may enter into the National Assembly's Office proposals for inclusion in the programme until Tuesday "18.00." From then on, only the President can decide whether he should put on the agenda a proposal that has been made afterwards. Given that you did not make a quorum today, you were not in plenary, I believe that you are not interested in the subject you are raising. If you had come to the Conference of Presidents, we could have discussed your proposal and fellow Members of Parliamentary Group Chairs could have supported you. As I can see, they don't mind that happening. But you can't do this with procedural grasps, breaking the Rules, twisting my hands and speaking the way you speak from the stands. [[Reply from the National Representative Philip Popov, from the place: "Procedure! "]] What procedure again?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u54	Thank you, Madam President! Your ultimatative tone, in violation of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, is clearly not in line with the high tribune you are currently occupying. Since morning in violation of the Rules of Procedure and placing ultimatums why we have not registered, why we have not attended the Conference of Presidents you are violating the Rules in which the procedure is clearly and categorically recorded in accordance with art. 113. Look back into the practice of the National Assembly and see how the procedure under art. 113, as at this time.. has been allowed to vote and the National Assembly has adopted decisions on whether to hear the respective minister or not. We have invited many times to the Chamber, Madam President, a minister of charge to be heard on a particular matter, you have called on the phone so that the minister can be in the Chamber and accordingly you have given an answer whether he can be present or not, according to his programme. Please do not violate the Rules and do not place ultimatums from this high tribune to any parliamentary group! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u55	I'm not putting ultimatums, I'm just thinking, just like you're thinking from the stands. [[Reply by National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] What is it, Mr. Svilensky? When are we gonna finish this topic, when are we gonna start working? After Mr. Svilensky and Mr. Mareshki will make a statement. Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u56	Thank you, Madam President. My procedure is with you, but also with Mrs Daritkova, who you are trying to place on a parliamentary group an obligation to carry out your orders regarding participation in the Presidency Council, registration in the morning in Parliament. This is political behavior and the decision of the parliamentary group. I see, not only one. There is no way that a group has registered or not dependent on whether or not the proposals will be voted on in plenary. I do not want to comment on the invitation to register with the BSP group because it will become very interesting for Bulgarian citizens. More importantly, when there are proposals made by MPs, no matter which parliamentary group they are from, you should put them to the vote. This is the procedure and therefore four or five Members have already made procedures to implement the Rules. There is a procedure for hearing the Minister important to Bulgarian citizens. People are standing in front of hospitals, in front of clinics, waiting, we're here... [[The President turns off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u57	I understand, Mr. Svilensky, what's your procedure? Going to work is a matter of duty to every MP.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u58	Why did you turn off his microphone?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u59	Yeah, because we already heard what you had to say.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u60	You don't judge that!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u61	We continue with a declaration on behalf of a group. Mr. Mareshki, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u62	Madam President, honourable Members! I did not believe what awake Bulgarian citizens told me what happened here on Friday, but today I saw it with my own eyes and now I believe them. What did they tell me? I was told exactly about these circuses, colleagues from BSP stood on the stand and claimed they were not in the room. People ask, "How come they say they're not in the room when they're sitting in the stands?" So two hours. At the same time, there are no doctors. Those who are still left and able to work are failing. Teachers get sick. They're being replaced by coworkers, they're getting sick, and right now in schools and kindergartens, we're looking for replacements for replacements. Doctors who are still at work say they're collapsing mentally. Cops can't keep up. BSP, however, is playing cat and mouse. Why? Because they're opposition. It is unacceptable at such a time to sabotage the state even if you harm it and at the same time call yourself a representative of the people. And all this again just because you want to call yourself opposition. And we of the will are opposition. [[Elevator bell dings]] , i.e. we have disagreement with the government on different topics, but the price at which we will defend them cannot be our people, the price cannot be Bulgaria. Because of them the Bulgarian people and the Bulgarian state will have them even when Cornelia Nino is no longer there. Bulgaria first and then party interests! From now on, let's be clear: BSP is opposition to the people, Volya is opposition to all enemies of the people and business and political ones. That is why we will each day use this high tribune to distinguish ourselves from this ruthless, politically unbiased opposition. Colleagues, I call on you: listen to reason, listen to what people want. They're hardly interested in the dots and commas right now. There are much more important things to decide. Join the people's agenda at least at the end of the term of office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u63	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. Bills and draft decisions for the period from 5 November 2020 to 10 November 2020 shall: Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the provision of reputable advisory services "Support for territorial de-preservation' between the Ministry of Energy and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Energy is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance and to the Committee on Foreign Policy. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Persons with Disabilities. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the lead. It has also been allocated to the Health Committee. Draft amending and supplementing the Agricultural Support Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Agriculture and Food is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government and to the Committee on Budget and Finance. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Personal Aid Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the lead. A bill to amend and supplement the Code of Criminal Procedure. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. Messages: On the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I inform the Members of the National Assembly that on 6 November 2020, Decree No 229 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria was received under art. 101 of the Constitution, by which the Law amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping, adopted by the National Assembly on 28 October 2020, is returned for a new discussion. It is entrusted to the lead Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications to report to the MPs the President's decree and the reasons for it. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria in implementation of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces informs the National Assembly that by its order he has authorised the passage through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria of the non-military nature of an aircraft with crew of the air forces of Australia. The permit shall be valid for the period from 10 to 13 November for flying for the purpose of VIP flight to transport a candidate for Secretary-General of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. The order issued is within the competence of the Minister of Defence, concerning the assessment of the military parameters of the country's transition to defence. On issues concerning export control and compliance with international plantation regimes mandatory for the Republic of Bulgaria, the country's airspace clearances should be granted to the State concerned after a positive opinion from the competent authorities in these areas "the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs." The notification was received on 10 November 2020 by the Commission. No 003-09-92 and granted to the Defence Committee. The National Assembly has received information on the amounts recovered in implementation of the Law on Supplement to the Energy Act (en. DV, No. ), provided by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. The material has been sent to the MPs of their service e-mail and is made available to the Energy Commission. The National Assembly of the Court of Auditors has received: Audit report for the audit of the report on the implementation of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2019 and an opinion of the Court of Auditors on the report on the implementation of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2019. Audit report for the audit of the report on the implementation of the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019 with an opinion of the Court of Auditors on the report on the implementation of the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019. List of completed financial audits of the annual financial statements for October 2020. Audit reports on the financial audits carried out have been published on the Court of Auditors' website. By letters of the President of the National Assembly, the materials are provided to the Committee on Budget and Finance and to the Committee on Health and are available in the Library of the National Assembly. Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u64	Thank you, Madam President. Members of Parliament, my procedure is on the agenda. Mrs. President, you have so far read us morality on how the Rules of the National Assembly should be respected, but see what point you put on the agenda.. item four: First vote on the bill for amendment and supplement to the Water Act submitted by Stanislava Stoyanova and a group of MPs on 23 October 2020. A shameful law for the Bulgarian Parliament, for the Ministry of Agriculture, for Bulgaria as a whole. It violates all European legislation relating to water resources, national legislation. Look, on Wednesday, you, Madam President, are a former member of the Committee on Agriculture, and you know very well how things stand, because on Wednesday, when we look at the first reading of this shameful law, the opinion of the Ministry of Environment is not only negative but extremely negative. At the same time, you are entering point four for first reading today, and tomorrow, notice, the second point in the Committee on Environment and Water is looking at this bill. Dear Mrs. Daritkova, if I should quote your words, is that not insolence? Today we will adopt the Law at first reading, and tomorrow we must see it at first reading in the Committee on Environment and Water. Why is this thing being done? Because this law is extremely harmful. It enables 80 000 farmers to pierce the territory of Bulgaria. You know that the agricultural area used is about 50 million acres. This also threatens national security.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u65	What is your proposal, Mr. Georgiev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u66	My suggestion, Madam President, is that this item be removed from the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u67	Thank you. Reverse procedure, please, Mrs. Belova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u68	Madam President, I am making a reverse motion that the first vote of the Water Act should remain on the agenda. I do not understand why in recent times everything offered to the benefit of Bulgarian farmers, Mr. Georgiev considers it extremely harmful. I have no explanation for that. On the other hand, I wonder why they have a claim on the agenda, given that they rarely participate in meetings, do not participate in chairmanship councils where they should express their views on these topics? [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u69	Thank you, dear Mrs. Belova. Just so you know, Mr. Georgiev, there are cases where we put bills into the Chamber when they pass the committee, because there are committees that do not sit on certain topics. This is the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. There are usually gaps in some of the laws that are not viewed by this committee. It is a practice that when it passes through the committee, the law should enter the plenary. I will still put to the vote Mr. Georgiev's proposal that item four be removed from today's agenda. Vote 131 MPs: 34 against 84 abstentions 13. The offer is not accepted. [[The National Representative Rumen Georgiev wants the floor in the manner of conduct.]] We voted, Mr. Georgiev. Let's not overdo it. [[Reply from the National Representative Nadia Klisurska.]] Let's continue with: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHILD'S PROTECTION. Mr. Atanasov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u70	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Law on Child Protection is amended and supplemented by the Law on the Protection of the Child. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. Proposal of the MPs Plamen Hristov, Polina Tsankova, Elena Angelinina, Albena Naydenova, Gergana Stefanova, Slavi Netsov, Boryana Georgieva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by 1. In para. 3 other than tobacco products, other than tobacco products, shall be added after the words 2. The creation of para. 4. The use by children of alcoholic beverages, tobacco and related tobacco products and tobacco products other than tobacco products shall be prohibited. There is a proposal of the MPs Plamen Hristov, Polina Tsankova, Elena Angelinina, Albena Naydenova, Gergana Stefanova, Slavi Nenov, Boriana Georgieva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 45 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 the words "the person who sells alcoholic beverages or tobacco and related products to children's products" shall be replaced by the person who committed an infringement of art. 5b, para. 3.................................................................................. 2. The creation of para. 16: supposed to breach of art. 5b, para. 4, is punished with a fine from 300 to 500 BGN, respectively with a penalty from 2000 to 4000 BGN. There is a proposal of the MPs Plamen Hristov, Polina Tsankova, Elena Angelinina, Albena Naydenova, Gergana Stefanova, Slavi Netsov, Boryana Georgieva. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. There is a proposal of the National Representative Boriana Georgieva, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 46, para. 1 the words............................................................................. 45, para. 1 "4" shall be replaced by "of art." 45, par. 1.. 4 and There is a proposal of the MPs Plamen Hristov, Polina Pankova, Elena Angelinina, Albena Naydenova, Gergana Stefanova, Slavi Netsov, Boryana Georgieva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 4: ............................................ In § 1 of the additional provisions, paragraph 1 shall be inserted. 21: ..21. "Smoking products other than tobacco products' are substances, substances and articles based on plants, herbs or fruits that do not contain tobacco and can be consumed by a process of combustion, heating, vaporising or other process, as well as plants and substances prohibited by the Law on Control of Drug Substances and Transporters. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 4 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u71	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. I open the debates on the name of the Bill, as well as the paragraphs that have been read. Are there any speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the name of the bill, § 1 as amended by the Commission, § 2 as amended by the Commission, § 3 new, § 3 by importer, which becomes § 4 in the version in which the Commission edits it, and the rejection of § 4. Vote 128 MPs: for 126, against none, abstention 2. Everything so far has been put to the vote and the entire bill has been passed. Congratulations, Mr. Atanasov, with the perfect job! [[Applause from the Bulgarian patriots.]] This is an evaluation of your work. Keep up the good work!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u72	Mr. Chairman, I, too, thank you and all the Members of the National Assembly! I also congratulate the representatives of the Volya Party, as you see all Parliament unanimously supported your bill. Thank you. [[Applause from the Bulgarian patriots.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u73	Thank you. Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u74	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On the basis of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that the period of the general bill adopted on 22 October 2020 amending and supplementing the Law on the Construction of the Area should be extended by another seven days until the maximum time limit. That's the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u75	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetkov. Inverse statement, is there a reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the extension of the period between the first and second reading of the Law on Device in the territory of the maximum period. They voted 124 MPs: 122, none, abstention 2. The proposal to extend the period between first and second readings has been accepted. Procedure Mr. Tzipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, my procedure is also based on art. 83, para.1 of our Rules of Procedure.. to extend by three weeks the deadline for a proposal between the first and second votes on the joint bill drawn up in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 2 of the Council on the basis of the laws adopted in the first vote amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship under No 053-03-71, with three weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u77	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the extension of the period between the first and second voting of the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship by three weeks. They voted 121 MPs: 119, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr President, I appeal to you, as you strictly follow the Rules of Procedure, please answer me, as Madam President has just told me that this is a practice. 4 of today's agenda The Water Act, if it is adopted today at first reading, will enter the Committee on the Environment as point two tomorrow. How's he gonna get in when he's gonna get in? I would like to hear your opinion on how it is possible to violate the Rules when the opinion is negative of the Ministry of the Environment...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u79	This is not a procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u80	So what do we do? We want to hide a truth and I want your opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u81	This can't be a procedure. In my opinion, you'll want him alone in the halls of parliament and I'll give you an answer. This is no place for conversation, questions and answers. It wasn't a procedure in the manner of conduct! Anyone else interested in a procedure? I can't see? We continue with item two of the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE CODE OF THE TRUDE. A joint project drawn up by the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee on the basis of the laws adopted at the first vote on 1 October 2020, with importers Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on 3 June 2020 and the Council of Ministers on 3 August 2020, No 053-08-34. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "Project General Law Report No 053-08-34 of 9 October 2020 of the first vote adopted on 1 October 2020, Draft Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code, No 002-01-32, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 August 2020, and Draft Law amending the Labour Code, No 054-01-49, submitted by Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on 3 June 2020, drawn up on the basis of art. 81, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. "Repair for amendment and supplement of the Labour Code. " The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. There is a proposal from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova to create a new paragraph: A new paragraph is being created: §... Art. 1, para. 1 is amended as follows: Art. 1. (1) This Code governs public relations relating to negotiation, award, execution, retribution and control of the provision of labour in the form of labour. The Commission does not support the proposal. Under Paragraph 1, there is a proposal from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova: In § 1 in the proposed text for the creation of a new art. 2a, a new para is created. 3, with the following content: . (3) the contributions achieved in the implementation of bilateral cooperation cannot be more favourable than the agreements reached through social dialogue at national level between the State, representative organisations of employees of employers. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u83	Statements on the name of the bill and on Mrs. Naydenova's proposals as well as on § 1. Mrs. Naydenova, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u84	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! With the proposal made in art. 1, para. 1 shall aim to refine both the subject matter and the scope of the Labour Code in order to settle public relations relating to the provision of a workforce in the form of work, and specific topics shall be proposed in their systematic place. In order not to take the word twice by § 1, in the proposed text for the creation of a new Article 2a, I propose the creation of para. 3 which directly ensures that the arrangements reached in the implementation of bilateral cooperation cannot be less favourable than the agreements reached through social dialogue at national level between the State, representative organisations of employees and employers.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Naydenova. - What's the line? I can't see. Are there any other speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm calling off the debate. I put the name of the bill to the vote. Vote 108 MPs: 104 against 2, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Valentina Naydenova for the creation of a new paragraph. Vote 98 MPs: 19 against 73, abstention 6. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 1, first of all, to the vote the proposal of the National Representative Valentina Naydenova with the text which has been read and which has not been adopted by the Commission. They voted 107 MPs: 26, against 72, abstentioned 9. The offer is not accepted. [[Noise and lines.]] I shall put to the vote the text of § 1 by importer. Please keep order in the court! Vote 117 MPs: 86 against 11, abstention 20. The proposal for the importing text of § 1 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u86	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10 the following 1. Alinei 1 and 2 are amended as follows: (1) This Code shall apply to the employment relationship between an employer and an employee with a place of employment in the Republic of Bulgaria, in so far as it is not provided otherwise in a law or in an international contract in force for the Republic of Bulgaria. (2) This Code shall also apply to the employment relationship between a Bulgarian employer and a worker or employee with a place of employment outside the Republic of Bulgaria, in so far as it is not provided otherwise in a law or in an international contract in force for the Republic of Bulgaria. 2. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: . (4) The application of para. 1, 2 and 3 shall not deprive the worker or the employee of the protection which provides him with the provisions of the law of the State, in the territory of which or from which the work is normally carried out when they are more favourable to the worker or the employee.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Are there any requests for comments under § 2 by importer and § 3 by version of the Commission? I can't see. I'm calling off the debate. I shall put to the vote the text of § 2 by importer and the wording of § 3 by the version of the Commission. They voted 120 MPs: 92, against 10, abstention 18. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u88	Proposal of the National Representative Valentina Naydenova for the creation of a new paragraph: I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 50 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinea 2 of art. 50 acquires the following content: 2 The collective employment contract shall agree at least the following parameters: 1. The minimum amount of basic salary at educational and qualification levels according to the National Classification of Occupations and Jobs and by types of occupations. 2. The ratio between the minimum and the maximum basic salary under a contract of employment in professions and positions for the duration of the collective contract. 3. An additional remuneration for educational and scientific degree of doctor or for a scientific degree of Doctor of Sciences. 4. Additional remuneration for: professional experience (class), night work, overtime, work during the official holidays, time available, additional qualification, results achieved and other additional remuneration prescribed in the Internal Rules on the structure and organisation of the undertaking's salary as required by this Code. 2. Alinea 2 becomes paragraph 3. The Commission does not support the proposal. Under § 4 there is a proposal from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova: The proposed text in § 4 to amend and supplement art. 51b, para. 4 acquires the following type: (4) The Minister of Labour and Social Policy shall extend the application of the collective contract between the representative organisations of the employees' organisations and employers at the level of employment and industry in all enterprises in the industry or industry. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u89	I open the debates on the proposed new paragraph by Mrs. Naydenova, pursuant to § 4 by importer, § 5 by importer and § 6 by importer. Are there any speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u90	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 50, para. 2 It says what the collective contract may not contain, but nowhere does it say what it may contain. I therefore define and offer to your attention at least the following parameters, which contain a collective contract: minimum basic salary; ratio between minimum and maximum basic salary; additional remuneration and others. And because at the same time I have to give you information about my motives under art. 51b, para. 4, I can draw your attention to the following. With the proposed amendment and supplement of art. 51b, para. 4 I propose that the Minister of Labour and Social Policy be granted rights to extend the application of the collective contract at industry and industry level to all enterprises in the industry and industry. This means that the arrangements will also apply to those enterprises where there are no trade unions. For example, in our field, in private hospitals, there is no union organization in any of them, and where there are, we see what the problems are. [[Noise and lines.]] Secondly, to do so without asking for a general request from the representative organisations of employees and employers, and can extend the entire collective contract, not as in the current text...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u91	Please remain silent in the room and stop speaking on the phone.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u92	...in this article can spread even parts of the collective contract. Since I believe that the collective employment agreement is a complex document, it will either spread it out or will not fully decide to be his.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Naydenova. - What's the line? There aren't any. Are there any other speeches on the texts of the paragraphs that have been proposed to you? I can't see. I'm calling off the debate. I shall put to the vote the text proposed by the National Representative Valentina Naydenova for the creation of a new paragraph in relation to art. 50. Vote 117 MPs: 43, against 67, abstention 7. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the National Representative Valentina Naydenova under § 4 in relation to art. 51, which was rejected by the Commission. They voted 122 MPs: 50, against 64, abstention 8. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the texts of paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 by importer. They voted 133 MPs: 84, against 11, abstention 38. Paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u94	Proposal by the National Representative Valentina Naydenova to create a new paragraph: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 61, a new para is being created. 4, with the following content: . (4) The conclusion of a contract of employment is a mandatory condition for the work to be done under the conditions regulated by that code. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the People's Representative Vesela Lecheva and a group of MPs for the creation of a new § 6a: ##6a is created: ##6a: 6a. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 107a. the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 19: The employees working in the public administration are entitled to representative and uniform clothing under the terms and conditions laid down by the Council of Ministers for those working in the service. 2. Previously on AMC's... 19 " 21 " became respectively. 20 "Secretary 22. " The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8. Proposal by the Parliamentary Representative Vesela Lecheva and a group of MPs: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u95	Statements on the paragraphs read to § 9 including? Anyone? Here you are, Mrs. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u96	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Even though we have a very large combination of members, we will accept the challenge of dealing with what the Commission is proposing. But I would like to point out to you that art. 61 of the current text of the Labour Code concerns only the conclusion of the contract of employment itself between the parties concerned. However, there is nowhere explicitly stated that the conclusion of a contract of employment is a mandatory condition for labour under the conditions regulated by this Code. This is why in art. 61 I propose a new para. 4 which shall read and be with the following text: The conclusion of a contract of employment is a mandatory condition for working under the conditions regulated by this code.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Naydenova. Are there lines? I won't. Here you are, Mr. Gokov, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for giving me the floor. Dear MPs of the majority, in a moment you will all press the red button and you will vote against this proposal of ours, which we are trying to arrange again the representative clothing for employees in the public administration. But how many of you know what this is all about? And has anyone tried to explain to you the one who tells you to vote against the proposal, what is the proposal and why you should vote against it? I will try to explain and motivate you to support it. It is in this respect that employees working on a civil service relationship in the public administration are also entitled to a representative uniform, subject to the order laid down by the Council of Ministers for those working in the service. This is another attempt by the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria to settle the issue with the representative uniforms for employees in the state administration and to arrange their right to cash for representative clothing, as arranged for the civil servants through the Law on State Employees. Perhaps in principle this should be done through the state budget every year, but it can also be done through the Labour Code. I do not understand the persistence of the majority in this case to refuse to solve this issue, because in this case it is not even about additional funds, but only about the regulatory settlement of a long-standing problem. By telling you for a long time, it has been since 2000, since there is the Law on Civil Service and Public Administration employees have been divided into those of service and employment. In this case, I do not know why we discriminate against employees working in the public administration against those working in the public service? What's worse about them? This is about justice and equality. You should know that they also now receive funds for such clothing, all the more so that for most of them this is agreed in collective agreements at national level. But the practice of providing these funds is diverse and creates many problems and difficulties. The heads of various government agencies are on the verge of law, trying to give money for such workwear, because we force them to violate the Law in this way. And the last thing I say on this issue is that trade unions are also consistent when it is given the opportunity, whether in the case of amendments to the Labour Code, whether when adopting a new budget, to raise the question, but there is no one to hear them. I appeal to you as MPs: if you do not want to hear the opposition in the face of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, which made this proposal, at least to hear the request of the trade unions, who believe that this is fair to be settled.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u99	You have 10 minutes if you speak both paragraphs.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u100	Under § 9, where the day-to-day contracts are concerned, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we have proposed that this extension of the day-to-day contracts and of tobacco producers be abolished. These day-to-day contracts were introduced in 2016 allegedly experimentally, for a short time, but because of one omission in the vote and because of the management of GERB, of course, which stubbornly maintain these contracts still exist. The extension of their activities today with the Labour Code and their extension to other working groups will do nothing good in the labour legislation of the Republic of Bulgaria. I will not go back to the initial debate in the adoption of these day-to-day contracts, but I cannot forget to remind them that they take away labour rights, that they were first introduced into the Bulgarian legislation a labour contract for which no service is recognised.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u101	Please, the essence of the text we're looking at right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u102	Yeah. That this is practically the deprivation of workers from all the positives that this employment contract brings them.. the accumulation of service, class of service and so on. And that this is a contract that does not guarantee any employment or any contracts, because the texts currently in force do not guarantee workers' rights, and we have extended them to new groups working on the farm, such as tobacco producers. These contracts do not guarantee workers' rights, lead in turn to low pay and uncertainty of income and employment. Without the importers from the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to think about the shortcomings of these so-called day-to-day contracts, with this amendment in the Labour Code in art. 114a increases their scope on tobacco production, and the majority in the name of some strange unity without thought will support the proposal. As it goes, tomorrow you will offer to accept the day-to-day contracts and become valid for everything and everyone in agriculture. With thought and concern for the man, for the farmer, do not let this contract spread any more! He's done enough damage to labour law. If you accept this proposal for day-to-day contracts, I can say: congratulations to tobacco workers that you have deprived them of elementary labour rights guaranteed by the Labour Code! Perhaps soon to expect this and the other Bulgarian workers. I call on you to support the dismissal of § 9. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u103	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Mrs. Lecheva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u104	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! To the proposed draft amendment to the Labour Code, we proposed the creation of a new § 6a which is related, of course, to the restrictions that are placed before employees of employment in a given administration. Many administrative structures to date by internal acts or orders impose requirements and a number of restrictions on the appearance and clothing of employees, including those of employment. In these cases, the lack of reciprocity in the employer's obligations through which the employer provides and finances the fulfilment of these requirements, thus constituting an additional burden on that employee. These conditions are, of course, not regulated when the employment contract is signed. That is why we insist that this restriction be removed and that this injustice be corrected to employees working in the same administration. We also propose that § 9 be abolished, which concerns day-to-day employment contracts which, in substance, appear in certain cases as part-time contracts. An analogy is, of course, sought from those who offer these texts with practice in other countries. This is exactly the kind of practice there is in Britain, where they were first introduced into agriculture. They are also introduced regarding the search for job opportunities and students. However, abuses, exploitation and undeclared work in the sector of..... are continuing to grow, and we cannot remain idle. It is appropriate to seek to ensure sustainability in the workplace, and this amendment offers the opposite,............................................................................. We have repeatedly insisted that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy be analyzed the effect of this type of employment contracts. This has not been presented so far. That is why we are against the proposed yet another possible extension of these vicious practices, moreover, that additional sectors such as tobacco production are being introduced. We are against harming and withdrawing the rights of workers in Bulgaria. We are in a more sustainable practice that brings additional opportunities and rights to workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Lecheva. Is there any line to the speech of the MP Vesela Lecheva? I can't see. Are there any other speeches? Mrs. Angelova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u106	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the first proposal of Mrs. Vesela Lecheva and a group of MPs, the employees working in the state administration should be entitled to representative and uniform clothing, I would like to express the opinion that this proposal is not 100% precise because in terms of uniform clothing the order is set out in the Ordinance on free and uniform clothing. Uniform clothing shall be provided when it is necessary to distinguish workers from the rest of the population in the performance of their duties as well as for the activity of the undertaking. It's a distinctive sign. Uniform clothing shall be provided on the basis of art. 296, para. 1 of the Labour Code and, as I said, the Ordinance on free work and uniform clothing. With regard to representative clothing for employees in the public administration, this proposal, as the pre-speakers have said, has been presented more than once in both the State Budget Act and the Labour Code. It has also been discussed in the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation, but there is no basic agreement on this proposal. With regard to the proposal currently being made by the MPs from the BSP, I would like to say that it requires an extremely large financial resource, they do not have an impact assessment, that is, there is no assessment of the effects of it. If it is adopted now, the Ministry of Finance must immediately provide financial resources in order to implement this proposal, and as I said, it is about a large financial resource that is currently not available to be provided. With regard to the other proposal to include tobacco producers within the scope of persons who can employ workers for one day, I believe that this proposal is important in order to reduce undeclared work in this sector in order to guarantee workers' rights. This proposal is also agreed with tobacco producers. Tobacco production is a traditional sector in some regions of the country and I think it is appropriate to accept this, as I said, in order to reduce undeclared work in this sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. A line? Mr. Gokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u108	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I first appeal, when there are different proposals, to make them in the order in which they have been made.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u109	I don't think we're harming the business.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u110	No, we're not harming the business, we're simply interfering with things and the people of the people can't understand what it's about. They don't understand who's doing what to whom, but in this case, because Mrs. Angelova spoke on both paragraphs, I have something to say to her in both paragraphs. Mrs. Angelova, you don't understand what this is about. You say yes, that there is effort many times, the problem is, I told you since 2000 when the Law for the Civil Service Officer appeared and when the representative clothing of the people of service was arranged in this law. The people in the employment relationship remained unarranged anywhere. And at the moment, I have told you that money is being given for representative clothing to people in a public administration employment relationship, which is also arranged through collective agreements with trade unions in these departments, only nowhere in the law is regulated. And don't talk about having to, I don't know what kind of money you are, because people are giving that kind of money anyway. But they do, I tell you again, on the edge of the law, without it being regulated somewhere. [[GERB's line.]] Yes, on the basis of the collective agreement and when the Court of Auditors goes to an inspection, it asks them: That's what this is about, not the need for funds, not the need to... I don't know what this stubbornness is, and what is this stubbornness not to solve this issue? We have proposed a very correct text. And don't say he's not correct, because if you're saying he's not correct, then you're not. As for the day-to-day contracts, we've been talking about it for a hundred years. The first time we accepted the day-to-day contracts, they had to spread in a year, we had to do an analysis. But to this day, such an analysis has not been done. What's the big deal? What so many rights have we protected the workers? I say that with daily labour contracts, we only harm those workers who work on them. Because there is no contract in the world that is not considered a work experience. There is no such contract that does not carry all the positives from the accumulation of work and insurance service! So think about why you spread it to tobacco manufacturers! It's not in their favor, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u111	Thank you. Are there any other lines? I don't see anyone who wants to. Are there any other comments on the texts we are discussing? I can't see. I'm calling off the debate. First, I put to the vote Mrs. Naydenova's unacceptable proposal on the rejection of art. 61. 135 MPs voted: 46, against 77, abstention 12. The proposal for a new paragraph has not been accepted. I am now voting on the proposal for a new paragraph of the Parliamentary Representative Vesela Lecheva, related to art. 107. They voted 132 MPs: 50, against 8, abstention 74. Ms. Lecheva's proposal for a new paragraph is not accepted. We shall continue by voting on paragraphs 7 and 8 by importer. They voted 129 MPs: for 86, against 22, abstention 21. Paragraphs 7 and 8 have been adopted. Now under § 9 I first put to the vote the proposal of the MP Vesela Lecheva. They voted 132 MPs: 47, against 75, abstention 10. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of § 9 by importer. They voted 125 MPs: 82, against 13, abstention 30. Paragraph 9 has been accepted. Mrs. Angelova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u112	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 121a, para. 6 in the text before point 1, the words.. provide a basic wage of at least the minimum wage established for the country and/or at least the minimum amount of additional wages for overtime and night work.... are replaced by a salary charged and paid in accordance with the Bulgarian legislation............................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12. According to § 13 there is a proposal from the national representative Vesela Lecheva and a group of MPs to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u113	Thank you. Statements on the proposed paragraphs 10 to 13? Anyone? Here you go, Mrs. Jeleva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u114	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Our proposal is that § 13 be dismissed, namely the proposal of the importer in art. 140, para. 3 the word "warfare" to be replaced by "free." This topic has been commented on several times by employers. This is a request from a few years back and now with the proposed changes to the Labour Code, including the importers from the Council of Ministers, offer a significant retreat from the employer's obligation to provide warm food during night labor. This is the work that most disturbs the health of the people who are doing this work. We have also stressed several times in the Commission that medical research shows that there is hot food, so as not to destroy this balance when working at night, especially when we say that it has the most negative consequences for its mental, health and physical condition. In the Commission, Deputy Minister Lazarov said the following If the employer and employees want to receive such food, it will be given to them. Is that how it's gonna be? And in the Commission, even the Chair of the Social Commission said that he worked for 20 years and worked nights without receiving such warm food. So now the law is being broken. What will happen if we give this opportunity, this loophole employers do not give hot food? Because in this case, most likely the workers at night will receive sandwiches, cold food, which will not be suitable for the work they do at night. And now maybe here by the government will replicate me that, you see, how this is going to be done for employees on the ground, in the structure of the Ministry of Interior, for guards, night security, for health care workers. This can be done by means of additional regulations. I ask that this paragraph be dismissed and that you vote against it. We are definitely against the fact that it will be replaced by free food. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u115	Thank you, Mrs. Jeleva. Are there lines? I don't see any lines. Any other comments on the paragraphs we're looking at right now? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm calling off the debate. I shall put to the vote three paragraphs: § 10, in the version of the Commission; § 11 and 12, by importer. They voted 119 MPs: 99, against 5, abstention 15. Paragraphs 10 to 12 have been adopted. I put to the vote the proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Vesela Lecheva to drop § 13. This proposal is not supported by the Commission. They voted 121 MPs: 44, against 12, abstention 65. The motion to dismiss § 13 has been rejected. We are now voting on the text for § 13 by importer. They voted 122 MPs: 80 against 9, abstention 33. Paragraph 13 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u116	Under Paragraph 14, there is a proposal of the MP Krasimir Yankov and a group of MPs: The following amendments shall be made in § 14: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 Abandon the created new para. 4. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 words................................................................................. 5 and 6' are The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the Parliamentary Representative Vesela Lecheva and a group of MPs: The following amendments shall be made in § 14: (a) c. 2: - the introductory sentence is changed to: a new para is created. 3'; - the new para is being created out of the text. 4; (b) c. 3 the words "six and five' are replaced by "six and four' and "six' and "six' are replaced by "six'. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u117	I'm opening the debate under § 14. Mrs. Klisurska, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u118	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The proposal that we are made under § 14 is related to art. 142 of the Labour Code, where the provisions for the aggregated calculation of working time have been developed. What is currently offered to us by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy is the possibility that through collective bargaining at branch level the reference period of the aggregated calculation of working time will be increased to 12 months. This is extremely worrying because I want to pay attention, I said it at first reading, this is one of the texts in which there was no agreement on the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation. There is a resistance, and I would like to say that the texts of the Labour Code are always looking for that balance, that balance of comparison of employers' own searches, but also protection of the rights of Bulgarian workers. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say to you that even more worrying is what is offered to us by this paragraph, because there are European directives that we will violate if we introduce this aggregated calculation of working time within this 12-month reference period. Why am I saying this? If we look at the ILO Convention and its provisions, we will see that for industrial enterprises it introduces the working week to be no more than 48 hours. Open all art. 142 of the Labour Code, see the provisions that suggest that the working week in the summated calculation of working hours should be 56 hours. Where is Bulgaria in this situation and how can we afford, at some point, in a 12-month reference period, to allow Bulgarian workers to do this work, provided that, throughout the European Union, in many European countries and not only in European countries, we are currently talking about reducing working hours? I would like to tell you about a few important and substantial things taken out of the Labour Inspectorate General's reports regarding working hours. More than 50% of the violations committed by the Bulgarian employers are related to a violation of the working time,... [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u119	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u120	...a disturbance in the summation of his calculation. It is no accident that the Economic and Social Council last year came up with a very large opinion on the summated calculation of the working time in which they say: And this regime, introduced in this way, allows the working week to be 56 hours, allows the inter-week rest to be reduced from 36 hours to 12 hours. But the scariest thing to do is that, at the moment, employers do not pay the overtime due. I would like to say to you and to call you, ladies and gentlemen, that it is in our hands right now that this essential issue is being resolved. Because this allows the reduction of workers, but also the aggravation of the entire working cycle. What do I mean? In general, in Bulgarian law the working day is estimated at eight hours, the working week is estimated at no more than 40 hours and this is consistent with the physiological characteristics of the human organism and the need for rotation of work with rest. How, within this 12-month period in which we will aggravate Bulgarian workers, will we create exactly those prerequisites in which they will work, to take care as Bulgarian lawmakers for their health? The scariest of all is that 21 years of Bulgarian labour law violates the ILO Convention because it was 21 years ago that the sum totaled working hours were introduced only for those non-interruptible proceedings. Since then, this provision has been changed and the currently aggregated calculation of working time is applied almost everywhere and, as I said, the aggregated calculation of working time is very convenient to prevent overtime from being paid. In this regard, it is also our proposal that we reject the possibility of a aggregated calculation of working time in collective bargaining and at branch level, and to drop para. 4 as we are offered. Moreover, I would like to mention Decree No 833, which is in application of the Law on Legislative Acts.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u121	Get it over with, Mrs. Klisurska!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u122	Open and read once and for all art. 45 which says that when we refer to a legislative regulation, we must have clarity about what is happening. Two years of talking about these changes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u123	Your time is up, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u124	We should have seen the regulation to which this para is currently referring. 4, what provisions will include and how will protect the Bulgarian worker. In this way, on the contrary, we aggravate Bulgarian workers.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u125	- What's the line? Are there any lines? Mrs. Jeleva, come in. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You're giving up your statement? [[(Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria "No"! From the other groups!]] What other groups? Here you go. You're between the lines of BSP and I don't know how to alternate them.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u126	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My colleagues and I propose the newly created para. 4 t. 2 of § 14 to be dismissed because the assumption of the sum totaled calculation of working hours with a collective contract to be introduced for a period of 12 months is categorically against the interests of the Bulgarian workers. Firstly, the abuse of the sum totaled calculation of working hours has become a mass practice in the present. This mechanism prolongs the working hours of the Bulgarian without being paid. The proposal by negotiation and collective employment agreement to do so in 12 months is not only contrary to the European Directive, but will now become a legal mechanism to avoid paying overtime. Secondly, the lack of clear legal regulation in which labour or production activities can be introduced a summated calculation of working hours makes it a mass instrument of employers to damage workers in terms of the duration of the work week. Moreover, especially in the conditions of the Coronavirus pandemic and with the working modes introduced in order to limit the number of workers working in manufacturing and office premises, the abuse of working hours is increasingly common. I have even received signals from my electoral district that, as a result of the so-called informal work schedules for calculating working hours, even workers who have used one-day paid personal leave to go to a coronavirus test have been forced to work additionally four hours due to the regime of work. Of course, there is no evidence that this is a common practice, but it is certainly an abuse of the system of the aggregated calculation of working hours. Despite the incantations of the importers that there is no possibility of one working for 12 hours, the protection from this hypothesis in this text in the Draft for amendment and supplement to the Labour Code is not sufficient and it is necessary to reject it. The lack of sufficient legal regulation of this atypical way of accounting for working time has made it a basic tool for organization of working time and universal in quotes door, during which calmly, undisturbedly, completely illegally surrounds different regimes related to organization of working time, rest, overtime and payment, violation of organisation standards and reconciliation of personal life with work life. Any adverse effects arising from the application of the aggregated calculation of working time shall be at the expense of the workers to whom it is introduced. The risk of this in the proposed bill, and specifically in this text, is great. This is unacceptable and I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u127	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Are there lines? Mr. Svilensky, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Ivanov, I fully agree with your statement why this paragraph should not be adopted and why should it be dismissed, but I cannot understand and I ask you to answer: when are you sincere? You and your colleagues who launched this National Assembly this morning at the meeting, when today you and your colleagues, as you claim, registered and enabled this point to be viewed and in a few minutes these Bulgarian workers, as you call them, to be harmed and those interests of Bulgarian citizens to be violated? Do you realize the responsibility of your action today, or is it again some hypocritical thing? We're registering in the morning to start the day of work...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u129	The essence of the speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u130	Yeah, it's the point, and then...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u131	On the contrary, I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u132	Mr. Chairman, I'm making a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u133	You have a speech, then you take the cue..... about the speech of the speaker before you, and you are talking about something different right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u134	But don't analyze my speech, Mr. Chairman!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u135	I'll shut you down at the end!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u136	You can turn everything off, but that's not your job! That's what you do every day.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u137	What's the disagreement?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u138	Well, let me speak! If you want to talk, come and speak from the stands. Speak from the stands!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u139	Keep going!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u140	What's going on? You are constantly interrupting and disturbing the creative process. Please, Mr. Hristov to remove you from the room for violation of the creative process. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u141	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Are there any other lines? I don't see anyone who wants to. A hole? Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u142	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Svilenski, we are sincere in our conduct and in the protection of the rights of Bulgarian workers, workers and employees from the first day when this bill began to be discussed in plenary, which at its first reading we strongly did not support, and we proposed that these texts, which are categorically in violation of the rights of Bulgarian citizens, should be dropped in its second vote. We prefer to be here, in the Chamber, and to fight for the rights of Bulgarian workers, and not with our absence to facilitate the government who imported these texts, which bring us back to the working conditions of the XIX century. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u143	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Any other speeches? Mrs. Angelova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u144	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The negotiators spoke improperly about the changes that have been made in art. 142 of the Labour Code with regard to the aggregated calculation of working hours, and it was said that they violated a European directive. This is absolutely not true because these changes are made in order to synchronise our legislation with regard to the established aggregated calculation of working time with the European Directive, namely with these changes, we reduce the reference period from six to four months, for which a cumulative calculation of working time is established. In accordance with this Directive and Article 3, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 19, with which all members of the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee have been acquainted, we give the opportunity to increase the reference period of 12 months through the mechanism of collective bargaining at industry and industry level. This is absolutely in line with the European Union Directive on certain aspects of the organisation of working time, so these claims, you see, contradict this directive, are absolutely not correct. It is also not correct to say in relation to the arguments that have been said that the changes in art. 142 also contradicts International Labour Organisation Convention No 1 because it should be borne in mind that its scope is limited only to industry and not to all sectors of the economy. So my request is that you carefully look at the texts, read the directive...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u145	By text, not to your fellow MPs! You could've picked up a line on the text. [[(Reply from BSP for Bulgaria Come on!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u146	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u147	I would like to draw attention to the Members of the National Assembly to observe the order in this Chamber and not to address their colleagues with "be." You have the floor or the line. Here's a line for you, Mrs. Jeleva, and then a second line for Mrs. Klisurska. Here you go, Mrs. Jeleva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u148	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Angelova, when you say that we are not correct, let me say that you are rather not correct because you are quoting the directive, but only art. 19. The directive is not only art. Nineteen! Read and art. 15, if you want, I can read it to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u149	I got it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u150	Yeah, you must have it. But why aren't you quoting him?! In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15 it is said that there are more favourable conditions and that this Directive does not affect the right of Member States to apply and to introduce laws, regulations and administrative provisions that are more favourable for the protection of the safety and health of workers and so on. When it comes to more favourable conditions, then there may be collective bargaining outside those frameworks that are in general terms, so we are not incorrect, and you are incorrect. Don't use it against us anymore, because we can also read the directives, we all have them! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u151	Thank you, Mrs. Jeleva. Is there anyone who wants a third line? I won't. Mrs. Klisurska, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u152	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Angelova, regarding correctness and what you claim, I thank Mrs. Zheleva for art. 15, but I will read you the preamble to Directive 2003/88, which you have quoted: The improvement of the safety, hygiene and health of workers at work is an objective which should not be subject only to economic considerations. Dear Mrs. Angelova, this is the directive: protection of Bulgarian workers! Because if you open the Regulation on working hours, holidays and holidays, you will see that the sum totaled calculation of working hours is introduced by the employer, and it is not negotiated with the worker, is not included in the individual contract of employment under art. 68 and not included in the supplementary agreement under art. 119. It is by order of the employer and the employer may require the worker to work continuously for 12 months under a summation of working hours. So don't talk to me about the directive, I read you the preamble, read the directives in full and see what they say! In respect of art. 45 of the 1919 MOD Directive Yes, indeed you are currently using the introduction of industrial enterprises, but if you read after the comma of art. 45 of the MOD Directive, you will see that we are talking about both private and public enterprises. [[speaking indistinctly]] The directive states that the duration of the work week can not be more than 48 hours, and if there are more than 48 hours in not more than three weeks. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 142 of the Labour Code in the subparagraph, which orders the summation of working hours, we allow a 56-hour work week. Is that normal for 12 months? Think about what we are going to vote on right now, think about what situation we are living in right now, and you are doing this violation of labour law where the worker is zero!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u153	Thank you. Mrs. Angelova, will you use your right? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u154	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to say to the replicators that we are not violating any legislation, that every single text in the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Labour Code is the result of two years of work between representatives of the Social Ministry, employers' organizations and trade unions. Each text is very well thought out, is precisely written and is offered for changes to the Labour Code. Changes in art. 142 are fully in line with the European Union Directive on certain aspects of the organisation of working time. Obviously, we read two different legal documents - the government and the opposition - because both you and we have this directive and in art. 19 it is clearly and categorically stated that: The Member States may, subject to the general principles of protection of the safety and health of workers for objective or technical reasons or considerations relating to the organisation of work, allow collective agreements or agreements concluded between the social partners to determine reference periods which may in no case exceed 12 months. That's respected. Clearly and categorically, we only allow through the collective bargaining mechanism at industry or industry level to negotiate and establish a larger reference period for the aggregated calculation of working time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u155	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Next statement Mrs. Jeleva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u156	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! More and more discontent is growing and the signals of workers related to the distribution of working hours are increasing. The lack of provision of compulsory breaks, the unregulated laying and covering of overtime with compensation and its non-payment as defined in the Labour Code and the increase compared to collective bargaining. Failure to comply with the time regulation is a major violation, along with those on pay for labour and vicious practices in the application of the total calculation of working hours, which is the covering of overtime. And the pre-speakers have said several times about signals of infringement and, against this background, you propose that the period of total working hours should be set for 12 months for certain sectors through collective bargaining, which will lead to an increase in working hours and non-payment of overtime. Such cases are typical of workers who are on the ground in the structures of the Ministry of Interior for those working in the Ministry of Interior. This is also seen now in this complex health-epidemic environment. In the proposed bill, there is no proposal for a change in the mode of introduction of the total calculation of working time in the part of the fee and at the same time for specific limited situations for a non-interruptible process. The Labour Code does not specify who and when should enter the total calculation of working hours. Once again, you transfer the responsibility of the Council of Ministers by drawing up a regulation, but in this regulation will we see all that we want to protect workers' rights. This is gone because at this point we do not see it and there are no guarantees to protect the rights of workers. I'll give you an example. Let's take a look at art. 142, para. 2, p. 2 where it is said that overtime can be done three hours a day and two hours a night, on two working days. In the year there are 52 weeks and if we do this work three times a week for six hours, 300 hours are for 50 weeks, that is, by removing the rest of the time and the leave of this worker or employee, he must be in overtime all year round. If we take 300 hours and 12 months of reference period, then the worker will be in overtime throughout this year. You also mentioned Directive 2003/88. This Directive clearly limits the application of the aggregated calculation of working time without any additional conditions and must be within four months. Period! Whatever interpretation you are doing to this directive, it is not correct. We explained it in the line to you, Mrs. Angelova. My fellow Members, in this difficult situation, the economic and social crisis caused by the coronavirus, we must not increase working time, but, on the contrary, we must reconsider the working process and make it possible to improve the working conditions and reduce the increasingly dangerous unemployment. This will not happen with the proposed changes to the Labour Code that you are doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u157	Thank you, Mrs. Jeleva. Are there any lines to the speech of the MP Mrs. Zheleva? I don't see anyone who wants to. It's Mr. Shopov's next speech. Mr. Gokov, you have spoken many times, so I will finally give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u158	Dear colleagues, in this debate the opposition spares the government and the discussion has a very soft, very gentle character. It's about something very outrageous. This is not overtime or extra work, as qualifications are made by all. It is essentially a request for forced labour. That's the right word. That's the concept we have to deal with. It is not that it is not done so far by many employers, now the goal is to legalise, to go into the Labour Code. There are several measures of the so-called business, and I mean Bulgarian, but mostly foreign. As the great Botev says about one and the other: our guests and foreign guests suck it. Several measures, of which one managed to jump the wall of the border so far and foreign workers were inserted into Bulgaria. This experience of the so-called employers' organizations succeeded. I'm not going to list the others, for example, to reduce the number of official holidays, there are several more such experiences.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u159	Paragraph 14, if you please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u160	I'll be back at § 14. Apparently, he's about to succeed another one of these employers. And all this in 2020 in a European country where the trend is to reduce working hours, increase and strengthen employees' rights. With us, it's the opposite. I was a member of the Labour and Social Policy Committee and strongly opposed any attempts to embarrass the rights and withdrawal of the rights of Bulgarian workers and employees. That's why I was cleared of this committee. I would have taken an attitude there and strongly opposed this experience. I do so in plenary and I appeal to the ruling majority not to enter into what obligations do, including our lobbying colleagues of such organisations. For me it is also clear that Mr. Simeonov has a connection with these employers' organizations. That's how you managed that attempt to bring in foreign workers...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u161	If you continue to deviate from the text we are discussing, I will take your word away.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u162	Mr. Simeonov, you are therefore leading this meeting to be more successful and safer to pass this text. [[Comments from GERB and OP.]] That's the reason you're on the stand and not being led by someone who's not interested.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u163	After all, in the text we are discussing, would you like to speak?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u164	You were supposed to recuse yourself, not lead the meeting today. [[The President turns off the microphones. The MP continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u165	Please release the stands for the next speaker. [[The National Representative continues to speak with microphones off.]] Release, please, the stands. In the event of a disturbance in the room, do not force me to apply other more serious measures. Are there any lines on Mr. Shopov's statement? I won't. It's Mr. Gokov's next speech. Your moment of stardom has finally arrived, Mr. Gokov. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u166	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And thank you for the stellar moment you gave me to have before the National Assembly. § 14 of the proposals for amendments to the Labour Code shall make amendments and additions to art. 142 of the Labour Code, proposing that the period of the total calculation of working time is from one to four months, according to importers, the aim is to ensure an equal work process and easier reporting and to synchronise the Bulgarian legislation with the European Directive 2003/88/EC on certain aspects of the organisation of working time. So far, so good. Unfortunately, however, the directive allows for the negotiation of different periods with regard to the period of introduction of the total calculation of working hours and overtime beyond those established by the collective bargaining mechanism. And here, under the cover of this and under the pretext of stimulating social dialogue and ensuring the balance of interests of the parties to the employment relationship, when a comprehensive calculation of working time is established and providing for an opportunity to take account of the specific characteristics of individual sectors or sectors through the conclusion of collective agreements, it is envisaged that the total calculation period for certain activities may be extended to 12 months by means of the collective bargaining mechanism at industry or industry level. I mean, you read the directive the way you got rid of it. Your colleagues said in the previous statements that you were missing art. 14, the preamble and corrupt the whole idea of the directive. With our proposal from the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria, we say: yes, at the period of the totaled calculation of working hours to be reduced from six to four months; and not at all to the exploitation by introducing the possibility of extending this period to more than four months, because this will lead to the loss of employees, including delays and much later payment of overtime or in some cases not to be charged and paid overtime at all. Even if we accept the changes, this will not change because the total calculation of working hours is used by employers to cover overtime and, of course, for its non-payment, especially in the conversion of night hours into daily hours. At all, with or without the adoption of the proposed changes, the chaos with the aggregated reporting and calculation of overtime will remain serious. Even the situation will get worse, of course, at the expense of the workers, because the government is doing nothing at their own expense, but only on the back of the workers, those who support this country, those who accumulate funds in the treasury, so that someone can distribute them out of the jeep according to their mood. [[Comments from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u167	Mr. Gokov, if you'd like the lyrics! A second vote shall be discussed and section by section, text by text shall be considered.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u168	It's right on the lyrics.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u169	Don't stray, please. It's a business we're trying to do right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u170	I don't stray for a minute, not even a second from the text. Are you gonna deny someone's handing out money or something? And that it has nothing to do with what I'm saying? [[GERB lines.]] That these people are hoarding the money in the treasury that someone is willing to spend by handing it out from the SUV? I'm moving on. We therefore propose from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria to reject the new para. 4 and to remain as possible for the employer to introduce a 4-month period of the total calculation of working time as per the directive, without the possibility of increasing that period in any other way. The other is a frank withdrawal of labour rights and frank exploitation, and this is not what the creators of the directive had in mind. Support our proposal so that we do not expose ourselves, as they say, to the people who wrote the directive, not to expose ourselves to the Bulgarian workers, to the Bulgarian trade unions and finally this parliament to defend any rights, not just to take them away.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u171	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Are there any lines on the speech you just heard? I don't see anyone who wants to. Mr. Siddy. Are there any other people who wish to speak?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u172	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, an extremely long debate on a subject that is really important to society and creates tensions in social partners. Listening to everything we've heard so far, I want to make a proposal for an editorial amendment: in art. 142, para. 4 words "12 months" shall be replaced by "6 months." I guess that way we could pretty much put pressure on social partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u173	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u174	Are there any lines on the speech? I won't. Go ahead, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the parliamentary group, we'd like a 30-minute recess. [[Comments from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u176	You get it. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u177	For procedure, please, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u178	A roll call check shall be carried out by reading in alphabetical order on the list of persons present in the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u179	Philip Popov is here and body and spirit is here, so the first person I count is Philip Popov. Mr. Popov, we're counting you again. You're here. We can see you, everyone can see you. Don't disown yourself later. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u180	This is a very important matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u181	Why don't you stay if it's such a big deal?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u182	I say I'm not here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-11-11.u183	You can't say anything. Your body's here. I can see it. Name check: Adlen Shukri Shevked is absent. Albena Vladimirova Naydenova- absent Alexander Dimitrov Pawnov- absent Alexander Ivanov Matsurev- here Alexander Koychev Ivanov- here Aleksandar Mairov Siddi-here Alexander Nikolaev Sabanov- absent Alexander Petrov Alexandrov- here Alexander Rumenov Nenkov (through the Internet) video conference platform)- here Alexander Tihomirov Simov- absent Altimir Emilov Adamov- here Anastas Marinov Popdimitrov- absent Angel Iliev Isaev- here Andrian Ivanov Raykov-- here. Anna Vasileva Alexandrova- missing Anna Nikolaeva Slavova- absent Anton Konstantinov Kutev- absent Asya Atanasova Peeva- here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov- here Atanas Petrov Kostadinov- absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov is absent. Bogdan Emilov Botsev- absent Boris Vangelov Borisov- here Boris Petkov Kirchev- here Boris Yankov Yachev- here Borislav Ivanov Borisov- here Boryana Lyubenova Georgieva- here Bürhan Ilyazov Abase - absent Valentin Alexiev Nikolov- here Valentin Georgiev Lambev- absent Valentin Ivanov Radev- here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov- here Valentin Mirchov Milushev- here Valentina Alexandrova Naydenova- absent Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov- absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov- here Vasil Milanov Antonov- absent Vasil Tsvetkov- here Eyebrows Letif Rashidov- absent Velislava Ivanova Krasteva- absent Venka Kostadinova Stoyanova- here Vesela Nikolaeva Lecheva- absent Veselin Naydenov Mareshki - absent Veska Marinova Nencheva- absent Violeta Ruseva Jeleva - absent Vladimir Slavchev Valev- here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev- here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov- absent Galya Eneva Zaharieva- here Galya Stoyanova Zhelyazkova - here Georgi Georgiev Mihailov- absent Georgi Georgiev Stoilov- absent Georgi Dimitrov Andreev- absent Georgi Evdokiev Markov- absent Georgi Zaprev Dinev- here Georgi Yordanov Yordanov- absent Georgi Kolev Kolev(through internet platform for video conferencing) - here Georgi Nikolov Vergiev- absent Georgi Stratilov Svilenski- absent Georgi Tenev Stankov- here Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski- absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov- absent Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova- here Daniel Petkov Yordanov- absent Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova- here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva- here Daniela Dimitrova Maleshkova- here Daniela Dobreva Dimitrova- here Danka Evstatieva Zidarova-Lurtova- here Dean Stoyanov Stanchev- here Delyan Slavchev Peevski- absent Desislaw Petrov Taskov- absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov- absent Desislava Angelova Todorova- here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova- here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva- here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov is absent. Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov is absent Dilyan Stanimirov Dimitrov- here Dimitar Boychev Petrov- here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev- here Dimitar Velichkov Georgiev - absent Dimitar Ivanov Avramov- absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev- here Dimitar Ivanov Danchev- absent Dimitar Krumov Alexandrov- here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov- here Dimitar Stoyanov Stoyanov- absent Dobrin Nenov Danev- absent Donka Dimova Simeonova- absent Dora Ilieva Yankova- absent Dora Stoyanova Hristova- here Dragomir Velkov Stoynev- absent Evgeni Genchev Budinov- here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva- here Evgenia Danielova Angelova- here Evdokia Slavchova Asenova- absent Elena Vladimirova Angelina - absent Elena Stefanova Pesheva - absent Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov- absent Emil Marinov Hristov- here Emil Seraphimov Tonchev- here Emilia Veselinova Staneva-Milkova- here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin is absent. Errol Osman Mehmet-- absent. Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev- absent Brought to you by Vassilev Iankov- here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov- absent Ivan Dimov Ivanov- absent Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev- absent Ivan Nikolov Mihovski- here Ivan Stefanov Valkov- here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov- absent Ivelina Veselinova Vasileva- here Ivo Angelov Hristov- absent Iglika Ivanova-Subeva- here Ilian Angelov Timchev- absent Imren Ismetova Mehmedova- absent Irena Metodieva Dimova- here Irena Todorova Anastasova- absent Sincerely Vasilev Veselinov- absent Ihsan Halil Hakke is absent Yordan Apostolov-Apostolov is absent Yordan Iliev Yordanov- here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev- absent Kalin Dimitrov Vassilev- here Kalin Lubenov Velev- here Kalin Nikolov Popovski- here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin is absent. Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva- here Kolyo Yordanov Milev - absent Konstantin Veselinov Popov (through the Internet) video conference platform) - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev- here Krasimir Georgiev Tzipov- here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov- here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev- here Krasimir Mitkov Subev- here Krasimir Hristov Jankov- absent Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Cristina Maximova Sidorova- absent Krum Kostadinov Zarkov- absent Krastina Nikolova Takova- missing Lalo Georgiev Kirilov- absent Lilyana Drumeva Radeva- here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov- here Lyubomir Boykov Bonev- absent Manoil Minchev Manev- here Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Margarita Nikolaeva Nikolova- absent Maria Yordanova Ilieva- here Maria Yordanova Tsvetkova- here Maria Shtereva Belova- here Martin Stefanov Obreshkov- absent Menda Kirilova Stoyanova- here Milen Vassilev Mihov- here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova- here Milko Nedyalkov Nedyalkov- absent Mitko Kostadinov Polychronov- here Mikhail Ivaylov Hristov- absent Mladen Nikolov Shishkov (through the Internet) video conference platform) - here Mustafa Sally Karadaye- absent Nadia Spasova Klisurska-Zekova - absent Nelly Ruskova Petrova- here Nigyar Sahlim Jaffer is absent Nikola Iliev Dinkov- absent Nikolay Asenov Tishev- absent Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov- absent Nikolay Georgiev Ivanov- absent Nikolay Dimitrov Penev- absent Nikolay Ivanov Tsonkov- absent Nikolay Krastev Boshkov- absent Nikolay Tsvetanov Sirakov- here Nikolina Panayotova Angelkova- here Nona Krasteva Yotova- missing Pavel Alexeyev Hristov- here Pavel Dimitrov Shopov- absent Petar Georgiev Kanev- absent Peter Hristov Petrov- here Plamen Dulchev Nunev(through the Internet) video conference platform) - here Plamen Ivanov Manushev- here Plamen Tachev Petrov- here Plamen Trifonov Hristov- here Polina Alexandrova Shishkova- absent Polina Tsvetoslavova Tsankova-Hristova - absent Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev- absent Radoslava Plamen Chekanska- here Radostin Radoslavov Tanev- here Ralitsa Trilkova Dobreva- missing Ramadan Bajram Atali is absent Rosen Zhivkov Ivanov (through the Internet) video conference platform) - here Rosen Malinov Malinov - absent Rumen Vassilev Gechev- absent Rumen Nikolov Georgiev- absent Rumen Petrov Genov- here Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev- here Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova- missing Svetlana Angelova Naydenova- here Sevim Ismail Ali is absent Sergey Manushov Kichikov- absent Simeon Georgiev Naydenov- here Simeon Hristov Simeonov- absent Slavi Dichev Netzov- here Slavcho Stoev Atanasov- here Smilyana Nikolova Niva-Krsteva- missing Spas Georgiev Gurnevski- here Save Yanev Panchev- here Stanislav Ivanov Popov- here Stanislav Ivanov Stoyanov- here Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov- here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov- absent Stanislava Krasimirova Stoyanova- here Stefan Apostolov - here Stefan Ivanov Burgeev - absent Stay Mitev Stoynov- here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev- absent Stoyan Radkov Bojinov- here Tanner Mehmed Ali is missing. Tanya Todorova Petrova- here Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov- absent Teodora Atanasova Halacheva- absent Teodora Radkova Georgieva- here Todor Baychev - absent Toma Lubomirov Bikov- here Thomas Nikolov Tomov- absent Philip Stefanov Popov here Hayri Recepov Sadakov- absent Halil Rexepov Letifov is absent Hamid Barry Hamid-- absent. Hassan Ahmed Ademov - absent Hristian Radev Mitev- here Hristo Georgiev Gajev-here Hristo Tanchev Prodanov- absent Flower Valcheva Karayancheva- here Tsvetan Borisov Topchiev- absent Chavdar Yordanov Velinov- absent Julian Krastev Angelov- here Yulian Mihailov Papasimov- here Yavor Bozhilov Notev- absent Yavor Rumenov Bojankov- absent With great regret, I must inform you that the number of people present is 116. Did somebody come by later? Did we write it down? That's the final number. There's no way we can continue this meeting. We're adjourned. The next National Assembly meeting tomorrow, 12 November 2020, at 9.00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
