ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u1	We have a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. I'll introduce you to messages...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u2	A declaration on behalf of a group!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u3	After the messages, I'll give you the floor, Mr. Siddy. On 8 October 2020, the National Assembly received a Report on the activities of the Prosecutor's Office for Law Enforcement in the period January "August 2020," drawn up in implementation of a decision of the National Assembly of 23 July 2020. The report was commissioned by the President of the National Assembly for consideration in the Committee on Legal Affairs. It is provided in electronic form to the MPs of their service e-mails and is published on the website of the National Assembly on the Internet. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that in implementation of art. 65, para. 1 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria by its order has authorised the use of an aircraft with crew soldiers of the members of the Air Force of the Republic of Bulgaria on the route Sofia Flights will be carried out for the purpose of transporting participants in the "Course for the planning of special air operations" at the Training Centre of the Multinational Aviation Training Programme for Special Operations. The Republic of Bulgaria is a Party to the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Defence of Hungary and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia on the establishment of a Multinational Aviation Training Programme for Special Operations, ratified by a law adopted by the Forty-fourth National Assembly on 6 February 2019. In accordance with the provisions of the Law, the competent state authorities have been notified. The notification was received on 7 October 2020 with entry No 003-09-83 and was submitted to the Defence Committee. You have the floor on behalf of a parliamentary group. Come in, Mr. Siddy.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! The reason for this declaration is the systematic and increasingly aggressive attempts to replace the essence of the European Union as a place for the free movement of people, goods and capital subject to contracts and based on the values of democracy, enlightenment and Christian civilization. There is a large-scale attempt to review all this experience, driven by a left-wing ideology that disrupts the traditions and rules of common sense. I will allow myself a quote as a vivid illustration: I will tirelessly pursue the establishment of a equality union in which you can be whoever you want and love whoever you want, without fear of condemnation or discrimination, because being yourself is not the ideology that is your identity and no one can ever take it away from you. So I want to be very clear where there is no place for LGBTI, there is no humanity. And this must not exist in our Union to ensure that we support the whole community. The Commission will soon propose a strategy to strengthen LGBT's rights. "Wursula von der Lien. " This reads part of the speech of the President of the European Commission on the state of the Union that was given weeks ago to the European Parliament. Shortly thereafter, the Monitoring Commission of the LIBE Commission in the European Parliament, at the initiative of quite well-known and known for its anti-Bulgarian activities NGOs, took the liberty of criticising the Bulgarian government in an official letter regarding the rights of different ethnic and sexual communities and crossed the psychological border by opening the long closed topic for the Macedonian minority. On Monday, the European Parliament made a whole debate on the rule of law in Bulgaria and proposed a draft resolution. It is, however, clearly a stretching concept for the administration of the European Commission, just as understanding of rights and obligations. These legal concepts for Brussels clearly do not originate from the letter of the law equally for all citizens of the Union and the guests of the same, but are mainly drawn by sexual and ethnic principle. Among the texts, we note the following very disturbing statements: The electoral code hinders language diversity and the voting of people living abroad; a speech of hatred by ministers and members of the National Assembly; a speech of hatred against Gypsies, LGBTs and people belonging to other minorities; a climate of hostility to Roma people, as well as the expulsion of Roma in the Vojvodinovo region; a criticism of the Constitutional Court's decision on the Istanbul Convention; discrimination based on gender and legalisation of gay marriages; concerns are expressed about the proposed changes regarding the external funding of NGOs. We Members of the European Commission are strongly opposed to what the President of the European Commission has proposed and clearly strictly followed by the administration there and in the European Parliament a policy of positive discrimination in favour of the LGBT community, as well as the advertising and promotion of homosexuality. We also stand against the imposition of same-sex marriages a trend, methodically and consistently passed through the various mechanisms of the European Union. For us this is a policy aimed at the traditional national and Christian foundations of the Bulgarian family and society. This is a policy that strongly pushes us towards self-destruction of all the achievements of European civilization. We cannot categorically agree with the criticism of the decision of the highest authority in Bulgaria, namely the Constitutional Court, with which the Istanbul Convention was declared unconstitutional. Such a demonstration at a time when Europe faces the unprecedented challenge of surviving economic, political, and perhaps demographic, shows only well disguised hypocrisy. To impose imperialist segregation on normality, when we need security and stability more than ever, is, to put it mildly, unacceptable. This, for us MPs of the United Patriarchs, is unacceptable. The statement of von der Lyon that where there is no place for LGBT, there is no humanity, is scandalous once in itself, a second time because it is in gross violation of the principles of the European Union for the rule of law, subsidiarity and respect for the will of voters and taxpayers in the Member States. It is also unacceptable for people calling themselves Bulgarian MEPs to defend a resolution fiercely, disguised as a document defending the legal order and the fight against corruption, in which our Constitutional Court is discredited, forcefully imposed the anti-constitutional Istanbul Convention, talk about separatism, rights of LGBTI and Gypsies and criticize the authorities of the government that they have applied the Bulgarian law, removing illegal Gypsy catatoons. Unacceptable and incomprehensible is the agreement between communists and Democrats, who, out of a thirst for power, speak only of corruption, a difficult problem, which the entire European Union is struggling with, pleases open topics that do not exist on the agenda of the Bulgarian society. What do gypsies, homosexuals, or non-existent Macedonian minority have to do with corruption? Today, Europe is facing a serious civilisational choice. Left-liberal policy destroys the foundations of Christian Europe. The same Europe, which allowed Gypsies to be expelled from France, Germany and other countries, is criticising us today for compliance with the law. This Europe, which has been silently drawing borders, dividing entire peoples, is now forcing us to talk about a Macedonian minority. The same Europe, which speaks of the rule of law, criticised the decisions of the Bulgarian Constitutional Court. And all of this under a good excuse for fighting corruption. And with a handful of national traitors to help. The scandalous resolution of the European Parliament was adopted, albeit with amendments, and polished the hypocrisy of our opposition. In it, although softened, the main problematic texts remained and were adopted with the votes of BSP and Democratic Bulgaria. The MPs of BSP, sent to the European Parliament, voted for the criticism of the Constitutional Court, for the pressure to adopt the Istanbul Convention, for the more rights of LGBTI, for the illegal gypsies, for the separatist demands of banned Macedonian organizations. And this is a fracking example of the hypocrisy of the Bulgarian left! Unfortunately, we can note that the descendants of those who violently macedonized the population of Pirin Macedonia in the late 1940s are continuing their work today. Shame and shame, colleagues on the left! Next to them in this national betrayal were Democratic Bulgaria. Democratic only in words and otherwise pink liberals who have found a wonderful agreement with the Socialists. Socialists and Democrats together. The descendants of the torturers and descendants of the campers in Belene! The descendants of the People's Court murderers with the descendants of the victims! [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] That's disgusting! [[Applause from OP.]] For the sake of a few more votes! In the name of a little power! And all of this under the good excuse for fighting corruption! A struggle that must undoubtedly be fought. But to be held here, in Bulgaria, not in Brussels. Because for liberal ideology there does not matter our internal problems. They want a new Europe. For us, Europe is the cradle of modern civilization. For us, Christianity is and must remain a leading and moral religion on the Old Continent. And any attempts to impose religiously, ethnically and sexually different communities on us from the traditional religion and diaspora of the continent, as well as on our national identity, are unacceptable. Yes, everyone is welcome in Europe, but not to impose their diversity in our traditional culture and value system. Even less to make its difference our norm. For us, Europe has a future only as a Europe of generations and nations united under the common sign of the European Union. Everything else is violence and replacement. Violence and replacement not only of ours, the Bulgarians, but also of the values enshrined in the Treaty on European Union. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the OP, which is part of GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u5	Thank you, Mr. Siddy.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u6	Declaration!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u7	On behalf of the parliamentary group Mr. Stoynev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u8	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The expectations for today are to proceed in a humble way, because since yesterday Europe's attitude towards Bulgaria is not the same! [[Strong noise and lines from GERB and OP.]] For ten days there were two ways...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u9	Mr. Stoynev!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u10	...two mechanisms to show corruption and lack of rule of law in Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u11	Mr. Stoynev, take it easy, I don't think...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u12	Firstly, it was the report from the European Commission. [[Noise and lines.]] Monitoring report, which showed that corruption exists in Bulgaria, there is no freedom of the media in Bulgaria, there is no rule of law, and the most surprising GERB and the United Patriarchs said: A wonderful report! This is a positive report! Since yesterday, there has been a European Parliament resolution that you have clearly noticed, colleagues, pointed out the culprit for this corruption. And the culprit for this corruption, for lack of rule of law, for lack of freedom of the media, for the diversion of European funds is located in this part of the Chamber. [[The National Representative Dragomir Stoynev pointed out the parliamentary groups of GERB and "United Patriarchs."]] Since yesterday, Europe has stated and has shown with its finger who are the culprits. The culprits for this state are precisely from the political parties GERB and the United Patriarchs! Until now, Europe has never allowed itself to point its finger at Bulgaria, knowing what is happening. Since yesterday, Europe's eyes are completely different. Colleagues, there is no way we have to admit it in this room and we have to find the right solution! However, let us see what happened yesterday in the European Parliament. Vote:.................................................................................................... 58......................................................................................................................................................... [[Noise and lines.]] From the Bulgarian MEPs all socialists voted for............................................................................................. . [[(Noise, banging on banks and shouting:]] GERB is against.... [[Loud noise, lines and shouts: "Woooo!"... by GERB and OP]] Colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u13	Colleagues, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u14	GERB are against, Dzhambazki and Slabakov are against, three MPs from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms are abstentioned. In support of the resolution is the Group of Socialists, the Group "Renewed Europe" where are representatives of French President Emmanuel Macron, the Group of Greens and the extreme left, as well as 22 independent European MPs. It is impressive what happened in the European People's Party: 29 MEPs have strayed from the party line, 6 voted [[Lowered noise, lines and shouts: "Woooo!" by GERB and OP.]] This, fellow Members, is nearly 10% of the representatives of the European People's Party. Among them are representatives from Poland, Sweden, Belgium, the Netherlands, Czech Republic, Slovakia and Finland. Thus, the European People's Party remains a minority in the European Parliament. Colleagues, notice with whom with the representatives of the European Conservatives and Reformists, dominated by the Polish Party, Law and Justice of Yaroslav Kaczynski and the ultimate right which recognizes those who are a threat to European values and to European democracy. [[bravo, loud noise, cheering, applause from GERB and OP]] [[Relations from the National Representative Julian Angelov.]] There are currently 73 MPs...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u15	Mr. Angelov, I'm making a personal remark. Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u16	... out of nine countries, with the majority of them from the Italian party "Liga" Salvini, the French national front "Le Pen" and "Alternative for Germany." [[Replications from the National Representative Petar Petrov from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u17	Mr. Petrov!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u18	Who supports Borisov in Europe? Kaczynski, Orban, Salvini, Le Pen is the support you rely on. [[Loud noise, shouts: "Bravo!" and applause from GERB and OP.]] And notice, dear Democrats, who applauded the House! All those who have extremely right-wing ones who have really worrying about the rule of law, about freedom of the media, about justice, are clapping and enjoying. However, dear friends, this is not how to say this is not such a big problem, this is becoming a diagnosis. Diagnosis because our democracy is sick! Europe clearly states that we have a major problem. This democracy must be cured or found a cure because it is not normal to say that MEPs call for full and unconditional respect for European values. Citizens for the European Development of Bulgaria, we have brought it so far that from Europe they are worried that you cannot defend European values. It is no coincidence that Bulgaria is at the bottom of all the rankings, whether by media or by freedom of speech, whether by the rule of law. There are no investments in the country for a reason, because in order for an investor to come, he must feel this security and not show a document that close to the governing government is taking away European funds. We are already talking here about a problem for public finances, honourable Members. To the stability of public finances! Here we are already talking about a new mechanism that needs to be developed so that we can restore trust in the Bulgarian institutions again. Trust, which, thanks to your ten-year rule, you have lost! The problem is that this declaration is not to be enjoyed by such declarations. We must be humble and immediately judge, realize that we have a huge problem! Because this huge problem is not what you are trying to extract as basic things that are not even in the declaration itself! [[Noise and lines.]] The main problem is that Bulgarian citizens do not trust their institutions, Bulgarian citizens do not trust this government, Bulgarian citizens do not trust this parliament! [[Relations from the National Representative Vejdi Rashidov.]] The only cure for this treatment is the immediate resignation of parliament and the government and new parliamentary elections! Because in Europe they believe that Bulgaria still has a chance. There's still a chance! And this majority of MEPs gives Bulgaria a chance in a short period of time to solve our problems through immediate elections, resignation of this government and finding the right move. [[(Noise, lines and screams:]] So I appeal to all Bulgarian citizens not to lose hope. Europe is with us despite the corruption that is rampant, and really Bulgarian young people, young families still have a chance to live, to fulfill their dreams in Bulgaria, but not with such a government as yours! Thank you for your attention. [[Extreme applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u19	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Declaration on behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u20	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We congratulate BSP and DPS with this great success for them! [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] We congratulate you on the fact that in the last few weeks you have managed to organize socialist, liberal and green MEPs in the European Parliament, who have never won elections anywhere in recent years, to organize and to throw a stain on Bulgaria thanks to Bulgarian MEPs. As long as there are socialists and liberals in Bulgaria, we do not need guards around the cauldron in hell. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] You have shown that your ideological identity is much stronger than your national identity. You are much more socialists than Bulgarians! [[Applause and cheering: "Whoo!" by GERB and OP.]] Because there is no real Bulgarian who enjoys this kind of action of his representation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u21	I'm not saying it's a pleasure. That's a problem!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u22	We will continue, despite everything and despite you, to defend the Bulgarian national interest, to defend our view that Europe should be governed on a democratic path, namely through those who win the elections, and not through those who lose them, because the loss in politics is not a value. You have the support of the lost Europe. We have the support of the winning Europe. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] You have the support of several ideological currents that go away. Those who go away! Who go away because people don't want them. You have the support of people who have broken free from the world of the caviar left and Radan Kanev's.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u23	And Macron! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u24	These are the ones who support you. These are those brave people in the European People's Party...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u25	Is that where I'm supposed to be making remarks now?! Please, colleagues, be quiet.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u26	These are those brave people who had strayed from the line of the European People's Party?! They have never been in this line because these people are much closer to European Socialists. What happened in the European Parliament was political opposition between socialists and the right. Anyone could have made their choice where to go. This is not Europe's opinion! This is the opinion of the European Socialists, this is the opinion of the Greens, this is the opinion of the Liberals. The opinion of the majority of people in Europe is quite different. We do not deny that Bulgaria, like all other European countries, has problems with corruption and with the rule of law. However, we will not accept Bulgaria to be the black sheep of Europe because it is not. We will not allow a double standard to function in Europe because such a resolution has not even been adopted for North Korea, as one of our MEPs said.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u27	You're worse.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u28	No, we're no worse than North Korea! [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria]] We are no worse than other European countries that have gone bankrupt in recent years, which have been supported by billions of euros by European taxpayers because of their unreasonable policy, unlike Bulgaria, which in all crisis situations managed to cope alone. Unlike other countries, Bulgaria did not allow the migrant crisis to take over it and perhaps this is one of the problems of the European Left. Because we know very well the position of the European Left on this too! And perhaps the next resolution will bring this problem into it, along with the Istanbul Convention. I congratulate Mrs. Ninova on her position on the Istanbul Convention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u29	It's the party's, not mine.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u30	Your MEPs, however, are of a completely different opinion because they are members of a group whose main cause is for this convention to be adopted. We will not talk about the OMO and the recognition of the hypothetical Macedonian minority that does not exist. [[Applause and cheering: "Bravo!" by GERB and OP.]] A huge mistake of the European Parliament is also to those who supported this resolution for supporting a lie. Because it is an absolute lie that Macedonians exist in Bulgaria! In all parties in this Parliament there are representatives from Blagoevgrad region. I am convinced that they are all shocked by this nonsense, which is written in the resolution and which was supported by Radan Kanev and Bulgarian MEPs! [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] We will not back down on these matters! Yes, we will continue to seek the way for Bulgaria to become a more perfect country. Surely there are no perfect countries. Each country certainly has its problems. Dignity politicians, however, love their country, love their people! They don't blame the people for living in the most corrupt and the worst state, because every country is made by the people and not by politicians. We oppose such treatment of our country. This attitude is not in support of the people. The fact that there are protests is one of the evidence that Bulgaria is a democratic country and the rights of the people are respected. However, in addition to the rights of the protesting minority, we also respect the demands of the untested majority. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] We're not trying to share the nation with people who protest and people who don't protest. In addition to the European Parliament, there are other institutions such as the European Commission, such as the Council of the European Union. There we defend the interests of all Bulgarians. You are defending the interests of an ideological minority who is trying to take over Europe and manage it in an undemocratic way. That's the difference between you and me. This is the difference between the European People's Party and the European Socialist Party. Some win the elections and manage, while others want to rule without winning the elections. Just the way you want to do it! [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] Therefore, your position is in line with the position of the European People's Party. You are putting Bulgaria's election campaign into the European Parliament. Tomorrow the election will pass, only the stain will remain. It will remain for other governments, who will have to go and explain that there is no Macedonian minority in Bulgaria, that in Bulgaria the Constitutional Court has decided that the Istanbul Convention is unconstitutional and this is our internal law, which only we can decide not in the European Parliament, not the green ones in the European Parliament, not the liberals in the European Parliament. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] We, colleagues, remain Bulgarians! Whether you will continue to be like this is your question. There have been experiences in history where you have shown that you are more socialists than Bulgarians. I hope those of you who are Bulgarians continue to be Bulgarians! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u31	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. Two procedures, Mr. Kutev, and Mr. Zablyanov after him.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u32	One's fine.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u33	Is one becoming a forceful procedure? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u34	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Chairman, please hold the mood! I hear calls, not just now, for the simple reason that everything that is happening today can be quite important for Bulgarian history. I want to tell you that two more such speeches and GERB will get us out of the European Union. [[GERB lines.]] BSP was one of the forces that brought Bulgaria into the European Union, you will get us out. [[Comments from GERB and shouts: "Eee! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u35	Mr. Kutev, what's the procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u36	This is your historic role. Stop the process, Mr. Chairman! You are a member of GERB and President of the National Assembly at the moment. This process could become historic. All this talk is harmful to Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u37	This has nothing to do with the course of the sitting. [[Applause from GERB.]] We continue with the ninth point of the Work Programme: SELECTION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE CENTRAL SELECTION COMMISSION. The selection procedure is in accordance with the rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 23 September. Before I give the floor, Mrs. Alexandrova, you are welcome only a few reminders: the election of President of the Central Election Commission will present to us the Report of the hearing. The candidate will be presented by the importer. We hold the debates and we vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I introduce you and this House to the Committee on Legal Affairs Report, I would like to make a procedure. On the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I make a procedure for the admission of the candidate for Chairman of the Central Election Commission Mr. Alexander Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u39	Thank you. I shall put the proposal to the vote. Vote 163 MPs: 155, against 2, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Invite Mr. Andreev. Please introduce us to the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u40	♪ I can't believe on the hearing of the proposed candidate for President of the Central Election Commission At its meeting held on 8 October 2020, the Committee on Legal Affairs held a hearing of the proposed candidate for President of the Central Election Commission in accordance with Section IV of the National Assembly Decision adopting Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for President of the Central Election Commission, the presentation and public disclosure of documents, their hearing in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the election of the President of the Central Election Commission adopted on 23 September 2020. The meeting was attended by Mr. Todor Gunchev, Chairman of the Federation of Independent Student Companies, as well as members of the Central Election Commission. The President of the Committee on Legal Affairs submitted the procedure for holding a hearing of candidates for the President of the Central Election Commission in accordance with Section IV of the Rules of Procedure. Ms. Alexandrova noted that the National Assembly received a proposal for Chairman of the Central Election Commission by a non-governmental organisation within the time limits and under Section I, point 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the Federation of Independent Student Companies, which Mr. Alexander Andreev proposed. The proposed proposal has been made available to the MPs and the parliamentary groups. The Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs pointed out that within the time limit laid down in the Rules of Procedure, MPs from the political party GERB's parliamentary group have recognised the proposal received for President of the Central Election Commission, made by the aforementioned NGO. It added that all required documents are presented to the proposal under Section I. 3 of the Rules of Procedure and it is published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly. After verification of the submitted documents it is established that the proposed candidate fulfils the conditions of art. 50 of the Election Code for the appointment of President of the Central Election Commission. In accordance with Section III of the Rules of Procedure, a check was carried out under the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and on the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The check under art. 25 of the Law did not establish the belonging of the person who was elected president of the Central Election Commission. The results of the check are published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly. After the official inspection carried out, as required by art. 50, para. 3, p. 1 of the Election Code, it was found that the candidate for President was not convicted of a deliberate crime of a general nature and was not exempted from criminal liability for a deliberate crime. The results of the check are published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly. Questions to the candidate for chairman of the Central Election Commission have not been addressed. The candidate for Chairman of the Central Election Commission Mr. Alexander Andreev was presented by Mrs. Anna Alexandrova, who pointed out that he has graduated from the Law Faculty of Sofia University. Kliment Ohridski, specialty "Law" and is also a graduate economist in the specialty "Accounting and Control" at the University of National and World Economy. In 2010, the candidate defended a doctoral program in law at New Bulgarian University. Mr. Andreev is a lecturer in EU competition law and chief assistant in international private law. In 2006 the candidate has graduated from the Mediation Training at the Partners Foundation. Dr. Andreev is a freelance lawyer enrolled in the Sofia Bar Association from 1993 until now. It was noted that Mr. Andreev was involved in national and international projects by being the author of a number of articles and publications. Ms. Alexandrova pointed out that the applicant also participated as an international observer in parliamentary, presidential and local elections and national referendums in the Republic of Azerbaijan, the United Mexican States, the Republic of Kyrgyzstan, the Republic of South Korea, the Republic of Northern Macedonia, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Georgia and the Republic of Moldova. It is emphasized that Dr. Andreev is a longtime member of the Central Election Commission since 2007, and from 2013 until now he is a member and spokesperson of the Central Election Commission. Under the rules of procedure, the MPs Krum Zarkov, Hamid Hamid, Simeon Naydenov and Christian Mitev raised questions. In response to the questions asked, Mr. Andreev noted that the cooperation between the executive and the Central Election Commission is at a very high level. He pointed out that it is necessary to consider the possibility of organizing certified trainings, after which these persons can participate in the sectional election committees. It has been noted that the incorrect protocols are based so far on the provisions in force in the Election Code on data subject to entry in the sectional protocols, namely their entry in separate rows is unnecessary and only aggravates the sectional protocol without bearing any information. Following the hearing and on the basis of the documents presented, the Members of the National Assembly agreed that the applicant complies with the legal requirements for the President of the Central Election Commission, with no evidence to question his moral and professional qualities and that he has the necessary qualifications and experience, specific training and personal motivation, enjoys an impeccable professional reputation and public support. In view of the above, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 14 votes in favour, 7 votes in favour and without abstention, proposed to the National Assembly a draft decision for the election of the President of the Central Election Commission. If you'll allow me to introduce him.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u41	Introduce him, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u42	"Acceptance No 1' Project! DECISION on the election of the President of the Central Election Commission The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in connection with art. 51, para. Art. 3 and Art. 46, para. 4 of the Election Code HAS DECIDED He elected Alexander Andreev as Chairman of the Central Election Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u43	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. Presentation of the applicant Mr. Nenkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! I present to you the candidacy for president of the Central Election Commission of Mr. Alexander Andreev on a proposal from the Federation of Independent Student Companies. He is a proven professional with many years of experience in electoral legislation. Mr. Alexander Andreev has graduated from the Law Faculty of Sofia University. Kliment Ohridski. He is a graduate economist in the specialty of accounting and control at the University of National and World Economy. In 2010, the candidate defended a doctoral program in law at New Bulgarian University. Mr. Andreev is a lecturer in EU competition law and chief assistant in international private law. In 2006 the candidate has graduated from the Mediation Training at the Partners Foundation. Dr. Andreev is a freelance lawyer enrolled in the Sofia Bar Association from 1993 until now. Its main research interests are in the field of international private law, European Union law, investment right, European Union competition law. Its additional research interests are in the field of civil and commercial law and electoral systems. Mr. Andreev was involved in national and international projects. In 1999 he was a lecturer in the PHARE Programme for Management Training in relation to legal issues of relations with an international element in management. The same in 2013 was a lecturer at a seminar at the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria on the topic of responsibility and responsibilities of the municipal administration in the holding of elections for MPs 2013. Dr. Andreev in November 2017 took part in the report on the topic: Challenges to the Election Campaign in the Digital Era and in the Twenty-Sixth Conference of the Association of Election Authorities from Central and Eastern Europe in Sofia. He is also the author of a number of articles and publications, with the most significant of them being: The legal aspects of the obligation to publish the accounts of the European Company............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Alexander Andreev also participated as an international observer in parliamentary, presidential and local elections and national referendums in the Republic of Azerbaijan, the United Mexican States, the Republic of Kyrgyzstan, the Republic of South Korea, the Republic of Northern Macedonia...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u45	Mr. Nenkov, please navigate to completion.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u46	I'm coming, Mr. Chairman. ... The Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Georgia and the Republic of Moldova. Dr. Andreev is a longtime member of the Central Election Commission, from 2007 to 2011 he is a member of local elections 2007. From 2009 to 2011. Member of the Central Election Commission for the Election of Members of the European Parliament from the Republic of Bulgaria. From 2009 to 2011 He is a member of the Central Election Commission for the election of MPs, and from 2013 until now he is a member and spokesperson of the Central Election Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u47	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor for speeches, colleagues. Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u48	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Today, it is the issue of the election of a new president of the Central Election Commission, after the previous Mrs. Stefka Stoeva resigned at the end of August. It is clear to all of us that this happened because of the scandalous proposals for amendments to the Election Code, which are already a fact and with which the state fully abdicated and transferred the responsibility for introducing the machine voting to the Central Election Commission. The role of the President of the CEC is key and despite the fact that under the Election Code it is a collective body, according to its Rules, it is the President who organises and directs its activities. The role and mission of the Central Election Commission is fundamental in terms of ensuring that this independent state body is a guarantor of free and fair, transparent, democratic and legal elections. Its mission is to guarantee the right of every Bulgarian citizen with electoral rights, wherever he is, to exercise his right to vote and that vote of the voter to be correctly recorded and accurately certified in the session protocols. The central electoral committee and its chairman have these key roles, but unfortunately, the President, who we are going to elect today, admitted yesterday that there are many disabilities in the electoral process, but did not give a clear vision of how to overcome them. His opinion is about a long debate in society. The election's knocking on the door! Similarly, yesterday in the Commission, we did not get an answer to the most important question: what is the vision for securing the machines? To the questions: How many machines would it be necessary? " he answered with questions to which he did not have an answer and transferred the ball to the legislator. We are under the impression that the problems with bringing electoral legislation into practice, with securing the machines will be delayed by transferring the ball without a concrete result. I quote his words, which will lay the basis for what I say: The Central Election Commission as a law enforcement body is called to implement the law as it is, and one of the main issues currently stands is the machine voting as a form of vote by voters in the upcoming elections. There are very few texts in terms of machine voting. They do not resolve an additional series of issues that will stand before the Central Election Commission as a body entrusted by the Election Code with the election. These are questions related to the acquisition of machines, their storage, servicing, certification, auditing, their transport. Therefore, the machine vote requires not only acquisition but to answer all other questions. Questions that need to be answered in a detailed framework of the Election Code. There cannot be only three texts in the Election Code that relate to machine voting without clearly describing in this regard the rules regarding what machines should be. He clearly said yesterday: no stereo, no machines! A few days ago on the Bulgarian National Television he did not give clarity how long it would take the delivery of the machines, where they would be stored on other topics which it is high time to receive their adequate response. We all know it takes 10,000 machines, and the terms of the contract are already pressing us. In order to have them, we ask not to talk about problems in legislation, but actions...................................... and final. His behavior, however, does not give this determination. With all that he has said and shown, he takes all the responsibility away from himself and it becomes clear to all of us, and now to the Bulgarian citizens that the newly elected President will hide behind the collective responsibility that he is not ready to make the questions clear and radically decide them, to bring peace and clarity. The truth is one thing: the majority doesn't want the machines! It made it so that with the texts it proposed in the Election Code, it would be corrupted. This is also required by the President of the Central Election Commission and with his speech yesterday he made it clear that he would most likely ensure this. I hope I am not right, but on the occasion of all the arguments I have put forward in this House, our parliamentary group will not support Mr. Andreev's candidacy for President of the Central Election Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. Are there any lines? I won't. The speeches continue. Are there any other statements? Mr. Karadaye, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, today the National Assembly elects the President of the Central Election Commission on a proposal from GERB and we from the DPS will support this choice. The alternative not to have the elected president guarantee absolute chaos in the work of this state body, which must ensure the next parliamentary elections, face the challenge of providing machine voting and guaranteeing the honesty and democracy of the elections. For us, more responsible behavior is precisely that of holding this choice. This is a very natural and legal process and is a fundamental prerequisite for the normal work of the election management body. But that's not the focus of my speech. My expectation was to have debates on the conditions under which the Central Election Commission should organise election production and mainly machine voting. Established as an independent state body with the Election Code in 2014, with subsequent legal changes from GERB markedly distanced themselves from the established democratic achievement and deprived the CEC of its management and authority power. A number of significant organizational and technical activities traditionally performed by the executive administration were unceremoniously included in the powers of the CEC, without any analysis of the available administrative capacity. Moreover, these activities were entrusted to the CEC despite the lack of administrative capacity, including contrary to the principle of separation of decision-making responsibilities, their implementation and control. The goal can be nothing but the creation of chaos and the possibility of speculation, even more. Do not the governors of GERB know that the CEC does not have a building with sufficient working area, does not have a professional administration?! On the contrary, they know very well, but the convenient cover for failure and the burden of another is inherent to those who have accidentally fallen into power and the consequences for the future democratic development of the country do not care. Not to mention that when the government deprives a body of normal working conditions, they put it in conditions of dependence on their will, which is completely contrary to the idea of an independent and neutral body. This is only proof why there is no sign that GERB has learned their lesson from the resignation from the previous President of the CEC. Yeah, that's the facts, and the whole society needs to know that. The state in the person of the executive, which has the necessary administrative capacity, abdicated from its main activity to support the organisation and production of elections. The Central Election Commission, although there is no explicit constitutional framework, its functions are directly related to the implementation of the basic constitutional basis, as indicated in the reasons of Decision No 4 of 2011 in Constitutional Case No 11 of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria. And this has its support, given that the CEC forms the constitutionally anchored authorities in the country outside the judiciary. Debates on how, under this legal regime, the CEC can guarantee fair democratic elections, secure machine voting and guarantee confidence in the electoral process as a whole and the elected authorities are clearly too uncomfortable for the ruling authorities. However, the lack of such debates will not save the government from responsibility. The exchange of topics, the creation of convenient victims will be sanctioned by His Majesty the Bulgarian voter in the upcoming parliamentary elections. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u51	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. - What's the line? Statements? Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u52	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! The election of the President of the Central Election Commission is not just a chamber decision, it is an element of a comprehensive process for conducting transparent and fair elections. And after the Election Code you adopted yesterday, rejecting the president's veto, many people have doubts about whether the elections will be transparent and fair. But aside from speaking politically about fair and transparent elections today, I am asking Mr. Andreev specific questions that interested many Bulgarians, to whom he did not answer yesterday, and we are holding here and now to answer. Please, Mr. Chairman, invite him. Firstly, yesterday you are making a statement that the Election Code, which adopted the majority, is not complete, does not allow the CEC to organise the elections and expect new changes to the Election Code. Please state from the stand: what do you expect from the National Assembly and is there time for it to change the Election Code one more time to provide you with normal working conditions? We are MPs, if the Central Election Commission as an authority needs something to ensure that you do your job, we are at your disposal. But come and tell us what you need, not veiled to say: The code is not good and we will see what we do. First question: what do you want in the Election Code? But make it clear that the majority has adopted an unenforceable Election Code for the Central Election Commission and that their decision stops you from organising fair and transparent elections. If you have a temper, say so. Two, machines. How many machines exactly will the CEC take? In this decision on paper ballot and machine voting, here tell us how many machines you need to implement the Law? Third, are you going to rent these machines or are you going to buy them? Fourth, how much will this cost the Bulgarian budget and where is this money provided in the Bulgarian budget because it is not in the official budget? Will they be provided by a decree of the Council of Ministers, with an update of the budget, but someone clearly and categorically from here to say when you will start the process for machines?! Hiring or buying, certification when? There is little time left until the elections, which is expensive, and if you are not ready to start this process immediately, then you condemn the honesty of the elections. Dear MPs, honest and transparent elections require at least three things: first, clear law, but not one like yours, which you change at the last moment, and is so vague that the Central Election Commission will not know what to do. Secondly, bodies to implement this law, but to execute it flawlessly. And the Central Election Commission says we don't have machinery storage capacity, we don't have logistics capacity. That is, the second condition is not available to you for fair and transparent elections. The third is control of this process. As yesterday I turned to parliamentary parties, extraparliamentary movements, our responsibility is to the opposition, to them, our desire to exercise control over this process and again I do so. Let's all give each other a hand so we can block their attempts to manipulate and fake the election. Because this protest outside, this assessment of Europe for the Bulgarian government, not for the Bulgarian people, should be realized in change, and this change can happen in honest elections and it is our responsibility to ensure them. So, Mr. Andreev, as part of this common process, I expect you to answer these questions, but honestly and frankly, without putting yourself depending on that GERB has raised your candidacy. Because they do not only concern your personnel decision whether you will be President of the CEC, they concern the processes in Bulgaria, the democratic processes, those of the rule of law, the honesty and transparency of the vote of Bulgarian citizens so that representative democracy can truly represent the will of the Bulgarian people. I expect you in the stands to answer. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Mr. Zablyanov, you know, no matter how much you raise your hand, your black suit really blends with the background behind you. [[Noise and lines.]] I apologize, but it's the truth. [[Relations from the National Representative Hamid Hamid.]] Mr. Hamid, I'm going to give you the opportunity to come here after that to see that there's really no difference, it's dark, the background is dark. You have the floor, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u54	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Thanks for the recommendation. There was practice in some departments, I think, and in some companies, they spend money on employees' clothing, and I thus understood your recommendation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u55	You've got it all wrong, but...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u56	I speak on behalf of the six socialists who are not members of the BSP parliamentary group. We will not support Mr. Alexander Andreev's candidacy because we are talking about an emergency decision of the Bulgarian Parliament, or a draft decision still of the Bulgarian Parliament, which was dictated by a series of contradictions, conflicts even opened, before the Bulgarian public between the leadership of the Central Election Commission and the government on the organisation of elections. From Mr. Andreev I, too, would like to hear as a MP whether the reasons for Professor Stefka Stoeva's resignation have been removed? If they have not been removed, if you have had talks with representatives of the government and no commitments have been made, why should you transfer them to the Bulgarian Parliament? Do you realize that with the actions you are taking, so to speak, you are further smearing the entire picture around the organisation of elections? I read carefully the motives with which Stefka Stoeva resigned. Since then, I have no impression that these questions have been resolved. I am also familiar with the position of Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev on the issue. And it is not just about the machines, it is about the overall organisation of the electoral process, the preparation of the sectional and regional electoral committees, the qualification of the members of the committees, the organisation of the trainings, the material issues that were highlighted in the speech of the representatives of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, of the chair of the parliamentary group. All these questions are open. Your candidacy here today cannot go quietly. I don't understand why you have to accept a Federation nomination of independent student companies? I'm sorry, I remember as a student this organization, when it was created, I didn't notice any special activity of it, I didn't see any other activity of it, except that you were a law student at Sofia University, what is the connection to the organization in question that raises your candidacy? It's not serious, provided you're the only candidate. The responsibility of the ruling majority for your candidacy must be clear. In fact, to tell you the truth, I've been thinking about whether or not I'd like to check whether the Federation's registration is still up to date and whether any of my colleagues from the university are staying in its governing bodies that have left a long time ago, but let's not go into this judicial and legal matter. Dear colleagues from GERB, when the candidacy is one when it comes to elections, when the candidacy is urgent, because we all know that this is what this is about, you should have taken responsibility and raised the candidacy. There was another procedure before that I didn't go back to it, where you were doing the same thing. But you don't give any democracy to this trial. Everyone knows who's behind it. The ruling party raises its own candidate after a professional with proven qualities and with personal dignity has decided to leave after seeing that the Council of Ministers does not in any way assist in holding the elections. All this remained behind the curtain, so to speak, and you are counting here in silence, and in the carelessness of the MPs to pass one vote and tomorrow the elections to be held again as we are used to doing them. It will not work this time for nothing else, not just because of the resolution of the European Parliament, because of the increased sensitivity of the Bulgarian citizens to the electoral process [[Comments from GERB: "On the topic! "]] That's very much on the subject. I'm sorry to be in charge of the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u57	But you're passing the time limit.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u58	Thank you for your attention, fellow Members.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u59	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. - What's the line? Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. In the manner of conduct, please, Mr. Ermenkov. Are you giving up? Here you go, because after that, you'll still want the floor. [[Reply by MP Tasco Ermenkov.]] Mr. Andreev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u60	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Thank you for this honor that I can from this tribune answer the questions that have been asked. I would like, if I may, to go backwards in terms of which organization has nominated me. Namely, this is the Federation of Independent Student Companies, which is a member of the Public Council of the Central Election Commission. Her Chairman, Mr. Todor Gunchev, was Chairman until September of the Public Council of the Central Election Commission, and in 2014, when the Public Council was established with the active participation of the Federation of Independent Student Companies, her representative in the Public Council was Professor Drumeva. From there on, I would not like to go into the questions and the answers to comment on the resignation and the motives of the previous President Mrs. Stefka Stoeva. I personally believe that the reasons for the resignation are personal on the part of Mrs. Stoeva, and if necessary, she could explain them herself or give an answer as to why she left. The third question that has been asked regarding the issues that have been raised and related to the implementation of the Election Code. The Central Election Commission is a collective body that organises and produces elections. In this regard, these questions, which have been put here by this tribune to me, I cannot answer because they are the decision of the collective body, namely the Central Election Commission. What the Central Election Commission will do is implement the Law as adopted by the legislator. I hope this answers the questions asked. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u61	Thank you, Mr. Andreev. Let's move on to the vote. It's the way it's supposed to be. Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u62	Mr. Chairman, I have asked specific questions to answer, and they are dictated by yesterday's statements by Mr. Andreev in the Legal Commission. Please summon him to answer. He himself said yesterday, colleagues, that the Election Code is imperfect and expects the National Assembly to change it again. Let's put aside the other issues that concern the decisions of the CEC, it lies behind the collective responsibility of the body, but the CEC as an authority has claims against us, the MPs and the National Assembly. Yesterday, he said in the Legal Commission: "This law sucks, it sucks, you have to change it again. "
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u63	All right, Mrs. Ninova, turn to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u64	So come and tell me what you want to change. Because then you will transfer responsibility to parliament and say: the MPs are guilty of the fact that the Law is bad.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u65	Thank you, I didn't hear anything so far.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u66	The Council of Ministers transfers responsibility to the CEC, the CEC of Parliament, the Parliament of the CEC. Finally, a false election.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u67	Thank you. Mrs. Ninova, the President, whoever he is, has no obligation and the right to require answers to questions asked by heard persons and you know it perfectly. Mr. Tsonev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, you have the obligation and the right to correct the speaker, especially if he is not a MP and is called here to give certain answers on the subject, because you do not imagine, Mr President, that whole parliamentary groups will form their opinion of what they have read in the media. They will form it from what they hear here. And I am now very hesitant about how to support such a candidate for president of the Central Election Commission, which says it will not comment on the resignation of the previous President, although the reasons in the resignation are mainly organisational. [[GERB lines.]] Well, he has to say how he's going to deal with these organizational things that made the previous chairman go away, and we have the right to hear how this is going to happen before we vote. Don't turn the parliament here, use the template, into a rubber stamp. We elect the chairman of the most important electoral body. We want to hear everything that excites people: how will the powers transferred to this body by the executive, given that it does not have administrative and personnel capacity, be fulfilled? How are all these things going to happen? What, Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u69	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. I don't find myself.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u70	... You will make this note and call for it to happen. Otherwise, we just won't vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u71	Thank you. Mr. Tsonev, this is very serious, what you're saying. Mr. Karadayi, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Chairman, I'm addressing you. In my speech, I said that we will vote for proposals from GERB President of the Central Election Commission, because the responsibility to propose the President of the Central Election Commission belongs to GERB. However, based on the answers we heard from Mr. Andreev just now, his way and attitude, which he presented to us to the entire electoral process, has already, Mr. Chairman, changed our opinion. [[Laughter and noise in OP.]] There is no way, colleagues, in this way and in such a way, to produce fair, democratic and normal elections in the country. The previous President of the Central Election Commission.. Judge Stoeva resigned and from the reasons we realized that with...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u73	Mr. Karadaye, thank you. Mr. Karadayi, to me. [[Noise and lines from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u74	...proposals and already adopted Election Code, Mr. Chairman, with your behavior and arrogance, you impose a regime that will produce chaos and create prerequisites for falsifying the upcoming elections. Mr. Andreev put himself just now precisely in this service as an instrument of this process. Thank you. [[Loud noise, O.P. lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u75	Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u76	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chairman, I take to the manner of conduct. Mr. Chairman, you are not the host of a television show to give or take the floor. You are here to lead an important, perhaps the most important process at the moment in the selection of the people who will manage the state and those who will be organizers of the process elections. You cannot, Mr. Chairman, sit upstairs quietly, listen to an absolutely irresponsible attitude to the questions that have been asked, and not take the attitude to force Mr. Andreev to answer these questions. You're the one you have to demand. You are the first in the country to be elected to the parliamentary republic of President of Parliament, and you have the right to demand, to demand answers that the entire Bulgarian people expect. Otherwise, this will become an apotheosis of this outrage of your outrage, election code, Central Election Commission, false elections.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u77	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. What you said to me either you didn't understand the freedom of personality or you deliberately ignored it. [[Loud noise. People's representative Slavcho Atanasov wants the word in the manner of conduct.]] And you will have the floor, Mr. Atanasov. Here you go, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u78	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chairman, my procedure for you is as follows: In the Council of Ministers there is a person responsible for the electoral process. This man is Deputy Prime Minister and his name is Tomislav Donchev. Tomislav Donchev delivered on 12 February 2020, Mr. Chairman, regarding... [[Comments from GERB. Loud noise.]] Can I not be interrupted, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u79	What is your procedure towards me, Mr. Chenchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u80	How do I put this?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u81	You've been talking for half a minute now. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u82	Order! I can't say what I want to say.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u83	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u84	After the election process itself said that the mixed system that you voted and created this chaos was a complete nonsense, Mr. Chairman, call on the candidate to appear again on the stand and to answer the questions that interest the national representation and, in fact, the entire Bulgarian people.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u85	I understand, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u86	It is your right and your duty to do so. What's there to call him to answer the questions?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u87	I understand, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u88	But if you understand me, summon him.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u89	No, I won't summon him.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u90	Why?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u91	I'll give you an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u92	Why do you refuse to do something that half the room wants?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u93	I've given the floor as much as any one of you. Mr. Andreev made his statement, with which the matter is closed for me. [[(Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms (Parliamentary Group) is leaving the Chamber.)]] Mr. Atanasov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u94	Mr. Chairman, I take the floor in the manner of conduct, because we have heard four procedures here. All four procedures were not in the way of conduct, but were absolutely, frankly direct statements. And lastly, I address to you I am just following the law and regulations of the National Assembly. You are neither Robespierre nor this Parliament is a Convention! So, Mr. Chairman, take a note. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u95	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. In fact, this is the paradox of the colleagues who constantly asked for a statement in the manner of conduct, appealed for the imposition of will to restrict another right in this case by Mr. Andreev. This is the paradox.. You insist on having freedom, and to limit the freedom of other speakers. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We are done with the debate, ladies and gentlemen. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote a draft decision which was presented to you by Mrs. Anna Alexandrova. They voted 173 MPs: for 119, against 54, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Negative vote please, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u96	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Chairman! I voted negatively, firstly, because this is the end point, the beginning of a corrupt election process you have set. I thought that would be the only reason I voted against. Unfortunately, Mr. Andreev gave me one more reason.. he hid from the answers to questions which he will refer to us tomorrow. And instead of being worthy to rise up and say here: The Lord your Election Code, which you have accepted, is of no use, he has gone into hiding and has not answered these questions. That he didn't answer the questions, and that we were expecting these answers is the small guilt. The great guilt is that he did not meet the expectations of the Bulgarian people that he would be able to organise fair, impartial, democratic elections, and not counterfeit ones, as so far. [[Lowered noise and lines from OP. Exchange of lines between Members of the National Assembly from BSP for Bulgaria and GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u97	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Mr. Zipov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On the basis of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly make a procedure for proposals between the first and second votes of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 002-01-31, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 July 2020, to be extended by five days.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u99	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. They voted 132 MPs: 119, against 2, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Message: On 9 October it was received and will be sent to the Members of the National Assembly a joint draft of bills to amend and supplement the Labour Code adopted at the first vote on 1 October 2020. The project is drawn up by the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy on the grounds of art. 81, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Dear colleagues, we will continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. I inform you that Minister Kostadin Angelov will not take part in the parliamentary control. He's being held back as he's on his way to the scene of the accident.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u100	Colleagues, we're moving on. I urge all MPs to put on their masks, as required in indoors, as a picture is broadcast on National Television and we do not set a good example for society. Once again, I ask you to put on the masks! Colleagues on the left, Mr. Simov, put your mask on. New questions concerning the period from 2 to 8 October 2020 from: - National Representative Krastina Taskova to Mariana Nikolova - Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy and Minister of Tourism, on government policy in the fight against high child mortality in Bulgaria and the demographic crisis. Response should be made in the plenary sitting on 16 October 2020; - National Representative Krastina Taskova to Kostadin Angelov, Minister of Health, on the policy of the Ministry of Health in the fight against high child mortality. Response should be made in the plenary sitting on 16 October 2020. Written responses were received from: - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on two issues from the National Representative Nadia Klisurska; - Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Finance Kiril Ananiev to a question from the MPs Lalo Kirilov, Krasimir Yankov, Valeri Zablyanov, Nikolai Ivanov, Dimitar Stoyanov and Georgi Andreyev, accompanied by a disset; - Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Stoilov. That concludes the written answers. First, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mrs. Petya Avramova will be responsible for asking the MPs Lyubomir Bonev, Nikola Dinkov, Radoslav Stoychev and Nikolay Ivanov about the policy of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works concerning reconstruction, rehabilitation and maintenance of the Republican road network. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, in connection with including the upcoming winter season and in relation to the fact that the first part of the parliamentary control has dropped the hearing and questions to the Minister of Health, which is hindered by the fact that it is on heavy road traffic with many victims at the moment, for the most part, our question will be developed about the state of the Republican road network, rather towards the roads first, second and third classes of roads, which seem to have remained at the second stage and the last 10 years in no way supported by these roads, namely those roads that connect small towns, cities and regions, and enable free movement, the traffic of both people and goods. Madam Minister, I have taken the trouble of getting a reference from two independent sources, which is mostly contradictory in its part about the state of this particular Republican road network, which shows that 60% of the Republican road network first, second and third grade, the facilities to them are in unsatisfactory or poor condition. A reference taken from a strategy adopted by the Council of Ministers 2015 precisely to address this painful problem, on the one hand. On the other hand, the Road Safety Agency gives us a comprehensive reference, and at the same time it turns out that more than 67% of the same roads continue to be in poor and unsatisfactory condition. I'm not going to explain the long and wide methodology of how things are calculated and how things happen, but to get an idea of all those who are watching and listening to us, at 100 square meters of asphalt flooring 70 square meters have holes. Those are the facts. Madam Minister, in no way the funds spent in the period 2014 - 2018 This is from our written question, showing that nearly a billion and 200 have been spent to rehabilitate this particular road network, and it amounts to 1,400 km from the total length of the road network 20,000 km, and that alone represents less than 10%. The facilities on this road network...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u102	Finish up, Mr. Bonev. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u103	The state of this road network in itself, the last particularly 3 years, is in no way adequate for the funds that are being invested. So, Madam Minister, we will continue in further matters. Our main question is: how is it invested and what is the policy of the Ministry in rehabilitation and maintenance of the Republican road network? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u104	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Madam Minister, you have five minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Bonev, Mr. Dinkov, Mr. Stoychev and Mr. Ivanov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Reconstruction, rehabilitation, maintenance and construction of the Republican road network is part of the government's vision not only for the development of the transport sector in the country, but also for the achievement of an appropriate social and economic environment for the benefit of a higher standard of living. The Management Programme of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria in the period 2017 - 2021 defines the main priorities, as well as the specific measures for their implementation, which form the plans for action of each state institution. The policy in the transport sector during the current programming period is a natural continuation of the ideas formulated in the previous strategic documents, which reflect both Bulgaria's status as a full member of the European community and the world trends for intercultural connectivity, safe infrastructure, for an ecological and socially sustainable environment. The development of the road segment cannot be strictly framed, accepting as a basic criterion the mandate of a government. Generations of builders have left their experience, knowledge, traditions, and to this day they are built on their endeavors. However, the national road map from year to year becomes increasingly saturated with new outlines and colors reflecting the emergence of newly built highway sections, speed roads, urban roads and others. And here is the role of the government, which with concrete actions and clearly set deadlines works to successfully build a sustainable and safe road system, as well as to reduce travel time and increase comfort. This, in turn, also contributes greatly to the economic development of the regions, as well as to international flows, greater traffic and securing of the commercial transfer. However, every kilometer of infrastructure built must be maintained, as you have pointed out, and that is why serious investments in ongoing and targeted repair activities are needed. In relation to what has been said so far and according to your question, I would like to inform you of the following: The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, The Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works has made efforts and has provided significant financial resources from both the state budget and the European Union's programmes to rehabilitate and maintain the Republican road network, which is, as you have stressed, 20 000 km. These funds are allocated through the Road Infrastructure Agency for the preparation and implementation of projects for repair of road sections and facilities, as well as for the ongoing maintenance of roads, including preventive activities, repair of emergency situations, winter maintenance, replacement of signs, marking and restrictive systems. The numbers are not small, they talk about active action by all units involved in road management and management. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee Three hundred and £247. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. The total amount of aid granted to the Bank in the form of guarantees is EUR 1 million. The Commission 525 thousand. BGN 814. The target of the state budget for the implementation of sites in the programme "Emergency repairs" is 31 million. lv. Funds for the repair of roads and facilities from European Union funds in the same period under the Operational Programme "Regions in growth " 2014 " 2020" 31 contracts for grants for financing and rehabilitation of road sections with a total length of 552 km were concluded. The total amount of the grant granted is 396,3 million. BGN, or 94% of the budget of the procedure. For the period until 2016, a total of 14 contracts for 161 million were concluded. lv. Cross-border cooperation programmes for the period 2014-2020 have been rehabilitated or are in the process of rehabilitation or new construction a total of 146 km of roads. Kilometers renovated road sections for the period 2017 - 2020: with funds from the state budget
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u106	Finish it, Mrs Avramova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u107	Number of renovated facilities under the Programme "Current repair". Only on the highway "Trakiya" and on the highway "Hemus" are completed and completed repair and reconstruction activities of 10 viaducts and in the process of completion are the repair activities of another 18 facilities. Repairs of the right tube of the tunnel were carried out separately and the right tube of the tunnel was carried out. The program "Main repair" seven of the facilities in the districts of Vratsa, Pernik, Burgas, Sliven, Varna were renovated. 62 large facilities were renovated and two new facilities were built.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u108	Summarize now, Madam Minister, you've exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u109	I'll finish up in my asshole, Mr. Chairman, so I don't abuse time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u110	Thank you. After all, it was about politics. The specific facts can be provided to the Member of the National Assembly. Any further questions? Here you are, you are entitled to two additional questions within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Madam Minister, we have heard about the long-term policy during the programming period, which has drawn up the government in 2017 - 2020 and you also noted that there are clear, specific deadlines for the implementation of this programme, but we did not understand what the balance between the allocated, as you said, the budget funds for this programming period and the actual renovation and reconstruction activities of the Republican road network were. We also don't see the visible results of this thing. In this regard, I would like to ask you two additional questions. One question is: what is the short-term policy of the Council of Ministers regarding the reconstruction and rehabilitation of the Republican road network? And the second question is: how are the accumulated funds distributed from the Tol system for the maintenance and reconstruction of this road network, how is the attitude and how is the Ministry itself involved in this distribution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u112	Thank you, Mr. Stoychev. Once again, wearing masks in plenary is mandatory. Mr. Mirchev, I can't see if it's a beard or a mask.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u113	It's a beard.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u114	Would you mind putting your mask on your beard?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u115	There's no way.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u116	Don't make me call Dr. Penchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u117	Call him.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u118	Okay. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will continue with a few words within the possible time on the policy of reconstruction, rehabilitation and maintenance of the Republican road network, which I also commit to ensuring the quality of the implemented projects. As Minister of Regional Development, my top priority is to improve the quality of the construction activities and, as a result, we are actively working on an amendment, together with the MPs, to change the regulations in this direction. At present, amendments to the Law on Construction are being prepared and introduced to the National Assembly to consider changes to the Law on Construction in the Area, which are in the direction of increasing control over construction and in 2019 changes were made in the guarantee deadlines for the implementation of construction activities, and for the repair activities the guarantee period was increased from two to three years, as were the guarantee deadlines for the construction of highways and roads first, second and third grade. A key priority is not only guaranteeing the quality of today's used infrastructure, but also the one currently being built. The priority of the government is the completion of the highway ring, improving the transport connectivity between North and South Bulgaria, ensuring safe and comfortable passage along the trans-European corridors of the country. In the last three years we have been working hard towards the completion, the construction of the highway of Hemus Motorway, we are building the Sofia ring road from the town of Tsarigradsko shose to the town of Mladost, the road hub of Mladost. I am building the highway of Struma Struma, the highway of Europe. We have started the realization of the road Vidin Botevgrad, we are proceeding the start of the highway of Ruse Veliko Tarnovo, which are part of the corridor 4 and 9. We are preparing the construction of the tunnel under the pass. We are looking for options to provide funding for the construction of the Black Sea Highway and the Tunnel. I mentioned these sites because the repair, reconstruction and maintenance policy should also be aimed at what is being built at the moment. An important focus in the policy of the Ministry is road safety. Of course, repair and rehabilitation of road sections along the Republican road network lead to a reduction of the prerequisites for road accidents. In conclusion, I would like to point out that there are very few efforts of the Ministry, of the Road Infrastructure Agency, for the repair and rehabilitation of the Republican road network. Of course, not all roads we manage to bring into excellent condition, Mr. Bonev. This requires considerable financial resources and time, but the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works is working hard in the order of hard work of all structures to build and maintain safe and comfortable infrastructure, ensuring the connectivity between the different regions in Bulgaria, as well as connecting with Europe.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u120	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Answer ratio Mr. Bonev, come in. Engineer Bonev, you have exactly two minutes. You're an engineer. I think we can work this out with you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u121	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, in the attitude I will try to be brief. The highways represent 7% of the Republican road network, including those newly built. The highway between Chirpan and Stara Zagora is still closed and we are currently giving more money than the construction of the highway between Chirpan and Stara Zagora. Our question was precisely about the Republican road network, which is off-road highways. The equipment! Three years of tunnel repair?! Seventy percent of the roads on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria have a missing mark. Seventy percent! Here we are talking about roads that provide connectivity between settlements, roads that should guarantee their safe use! Ten years! We're talking ten years of mandate! We are not talking here about the 2017 programming period. Tol system. The colleague specifically asked you about the toll system: what happens to revenues, how are they distributed? Does it turn out that the money printery will eventually become a typewriter for jokes?! Understand this, the main quantitative criteria for good infrastructure management are namely openness, participation, responsibility, accountability, efficiency. We do not know how the Republican road network and the funds generated are being spent.................................................................................................... After a while there are two questions about roads in different areas. I have repeatedly asked you questions about the roads in our area "5.7% rehabilitated." There are facilities on an international road, corridor I-6, international corridor, bridge with a broken road plate! Bridge! I've asked you at least three times. So, Madam Minister, it is appropriate to do everything possible as soon as possible to ensure the life and health of all travelers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u122	Thank you. The next question is from the National Representative Ivan Ivanov on the water supply of the district of Mutnitsa. Here you are, Mr. Ivanov. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u123	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Minister, my current question is part of a series which I am asking in the hope that the state will eventually become its role and deliver quality water supply to the Shumen region, in particular the city of Shumen, which is currently one of the cities that are threatened by waterlessness. Please answer me: what is the state of the water supply in the district of Mutenitsa of the town of Shumen, which is a third month without water? What measures has the Ministry in charge taken to improve this service to date, provided by the Water and Water Department, what happens there; when will people get water? This is a neighborhood of the tenth district town in the country, which is a third month without water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u124	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Here you are, Madam Minister, for your answer you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ivanov, Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works according to its competences has focused its efforts to ensure access to drinking water and to find a lasting solution of cases related to water pollution in numerous settlements in the country, despite the lack of precipitation and reduced water quantities in the water sources. The water supply system, which in the late 1970s was used for the water supply of the town of Shumen, has not been operational for 30 years. The system included deep drilling, pumping stations, a pressure watershed with a volume of 7,000 cubic feet. m and pushing pipes. Currently, the town of Shumen is situated in the terrace of the Mutiny river. In the conditions of permanent drying, the water source's flow has been severely reduced and insufficient to ensure the increased water consumption during the summer months. This imposed the introduction of a water supply regime with effect from 9 June 2020. The Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works has taken a number of measures to address the crisis, which are being implemented gradually. Water and Waters - Shumen, conducted an inspection of the technical condition of the system "Muttnitsa" where it was found that the conduits and facilities were not fit for operation. It is necessary to restore the bunker pumping station over deep drilling number 5 with the relevant electrical power supply and equipment, as well as to perform reconstruction and completion of plumbing. On September 16th, at the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, I was held a meeting with the district governor of Shumen district, the mayor of Shumen, representatives of the Water and Water, and representatives of the Bulgarian Water and Water Station, which was committed by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works to provide funding of 370 thousand. lv. to restore the water supply from deep drilling No 5. The realization of this measure requires time that we do not have, so the water supply and sewerage is carrying out urgent emergency activities. Temporary facilities are built to normalize the water supply of the neighborhood. Emergency water supply will be used until further water supply from deep drilling is put into operation. 5. With regard to ensuring the sustainability of the water supply of settlements in the districts of Shumen, Targovishte and Razgrad, I would like to remind you that in March this year, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works set out among its priorities the completion of the water supply system The necessary financial resources will be calculated to reconstruct existing pipelines, pump stations, tanks and complete the system and will prepare an analysis of the costs and benefits of this investment. After completion of the preparatory procedures will proceed to their implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u126	Thank you. Mr. Ivanov, there are temporary facilities built, so you have received an answer for "Mutnitsa."
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u127	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I'm going to start backwards. By the time you build the system, until you understand what you have to do with it, your cities and district cities will be completely without water. Therefore, you must take urgent measures to recover precisely those alternative water sources that you have quoted and are currently doing nothing on them. Unfortunately, you also sabotaged your mayor from Shumen Municipality, who is trying to stop the restoration of these alternative water sources, so you can talk to him on a party line. Unfortunately, the neighborhood of Mutnitsa, despite what you said, stands without water. Water, right, makes the necessary effort, but I can tell you that to date, 370 thousand. lv. have not been translated into the water supply to be able to continue the necessary activities for the supply of this backup power. Today you are viewed not only by the residents of the neighborhood, but also by the whole town, because there is a serious problem. Please make a serious commitment to this happening in the coming days, so that the water supply of the district can be delivered to Shumen within the shortest possible time. Because, you see, these people are my fault. They've been out of water for more than four months. A neighborhood in a district town! You understand the tragedy, the humanitarian crisis these people are in. I'm speaking for them here right now. You've done something, you've done it all the way. Otherwise, you know what's going on as if the words have gone, the wind has taken them away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u128	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Would you like to use the back? Madam Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u129	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ivanov, the insistence of the mayor of Shumen was to allocate funds to restore precisely shaft wells. We have an agreement, these funds will be allocated and are currently being operated in a mode of disaster, so that we do not delay the renovation and water provision for the neighborhood. Separately, I would like to stress that the aid that we have organised for Water and Water for Shumen, in relation to the accumulated obligations to the electricity operator and the supplier of electricity. energy in the years back, which the company has failed to cope with, I would like to inform you that yesterday funds have been transferred to the water and to the water and to the water and to Dobrich to repay the obligations to the Energo-Pro. And to reassure people that there will be no stopping an electric. The energy to stop the pumps and no water in the settlements. We make efforts and continue with the efforts for normal water supply of all settlements not only in Shumen, but also throughout Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u130	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We move on to the next question of the MP Smilyana Niva-Krusteva about the water supply network in the town of Haskovo. Mrs. Krasteva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u131	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. Dear Minister! The plumbing network in Haskovo is depreciated. The pipes are old, and much of them were installed fifty years ago. In the district city every day there are accidents that are difficult to remove and register large losses of drinking water, which is paid by citizens. It is known that more than three years the water in Haskovo was banned from drinking and cooking due to the increased amounts of uranium in it. After the Regional Health Inspectorate authorised the water for use on 1 August this year the population pays the highest price for water in our country. on a cube. M. Besides, the water supply does not make any investments to replace the old network. For the period from 1 January to 31 October 2019 only 137 thousand were invested. BGN, which is extremely insufficient. My question is: the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, which is the principal of the water company, what measures will it take to solve this problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u132	Thank you. Madam Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u133	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Krasteva! Water and sewerage services on the territory of the administrative district of Haskovo are provided by The water operator serves over 2600 km, water supply, water distribution network, over 400 tanks and pumping stations, one drinking water treatment plant, 250 km sewerage network, six sewage pump stations and three sewage treatment plants. The necessary investments for water infrastructure in the territory of Haskovo region are determined by the regional general plans, and in the short term until 2021, in order to achieve compliance with the European Union's water directives, nearly 580 million are needed. lv. without VAT, and in the medium term, up to 2028, 260 million are needed. lv. without VAT. These funds cannot be provided only by the water operator, as it cannot implement its investment programme solely by means of funds collected from the services provided on the basis of the prices established by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. Between 2012 and August 2020, this is a period of eight years, the prices of the water services in the site operated by the water operator have not been changed. Despite the increase in the costs of the company, as a result of an increase in the price of electricity, fuel, pollution chemicals, increased volume of monitoring the quality of drinking water in this situation, the water operator managed and maintained the water infrastructure throughout the territory, removed accidents and provided services, including the provision of drinking water with tanks for the population with impaired water supply, regardless of the difficulties it experienced and increased costs. In 2019 the investment of the water infrastructure operator in Haskovo district was about 480 thousand. BGN, and specifically for Haskovo Municipality BGN, which reveals the real picture of the limited opportunities of the company to implement its investment program under the current conditions. In 2020, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission has established new prices for water services in the territory that have been in force since 1 August. These prices are formed in accordance with the regulatory requirements, taking into account the continuity of water supply and the quality of the water supplied. The Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works for its part is constantly looking for budgetary opportunities to help Haskovo Municipality for the realization of specific sites in the water sector. A May 2020 agreement provided 260 thousand from the Ministry's budget. lv. of the municipality for the implementation of the site "Restructuring of the internal plumbing network of a section of Blvd. "Freedom" by Blvd. "Ilinden" to "Ilinden" Str. "Macedonia" and reconstruction of an internal plumbing network in an area along the street. "Stefan Stambolov" from "Stambolov" str. "Bobov dol" next to "Bobov" Str. "Murgash" which are part of the site of the internal plumbing network of the town of Haskovo. Public procurement for the choice of contractor for engineering and for the assessment of the conformity of investment projects are completed in relation to the site.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u134	Get it over with!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u135	Using this particular case, I would like to point out that much more work is needed for the overall renovation of the water infrastructure in the country. The realization of such investments in the public water sector requires active interaction of structures at regional level to provide funding, such as from municipal and state budgets, from EU funds under the conditions of funding programmes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u136	Thank you, Madam Secretary. A line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u137	Dear Minister, 60% are the leaks in Haskovo from the water that is being fed along the water supply network and leaked in numerous accidents. This water, which leaks out of control, is paid by the citizens of Haskovo without being consumed. I understand from you how much money is needed to replace and reconstruct the plumbing network and that at this point the Ministry is not ready to provide it. But this is an important issue for the citizens of Haskovo, and they cannot wait any longer for the solution to this important problem. Please answer me on what deadline in the foreseeable future this question will be resolved?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Krasteva. Madam Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u139	Dear Mrs. Krasteva, in a few words the sources of funding for the water sector, for which billions are needed, as you all know, we have debated on these issues to replace the entire plumbing and sewerage network, for its rehabilitation throughout the country. We are making efforts, as under the Operational Programme "Environment" you know, that regional researches have been made for all territories in which there has been consolidation of the water operators and there are already projects funded by the Operational Programme "Environment" so that these millions will enter the reconstruction of the water infrastructure. Haskovo is part of those areas for which a procedure is currently under way for the development of regional pre-investment studies and which we intend to finance in the next programming period. Of course, those who were able to consolidate more quickly have the advantage of being able to obtain funds from the current programming period. The Bulgarian Water Transport Company is the other source of funding. It was designed not only to finance, rather to have control and methodical functions in relation to all water operators, and currently the Bulgarian Water Holding is acquiring the shares of the state in the water companies so that as subsidiaries in this holding can finance the water infrastructure and invest funds in repair and rehabilitation of the water infrastructure. So we're looking for all kinds of sources of funding. As you can see, the water holding company already has 1 billion of the state budget, we are using both European funds and other funds from the state budget, as I have already quoted, which we have provided by the Ministry of Haskovo Municipality. We continue with the efforts not only for Haskovo, but also for all cities and villages in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u140	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The next question is from the MP Atanas Tashkov about the urgent repair of the road III-862 town of Plovdiv.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u141	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! I will bring you back to the topic of roads and my question is about an urgent repair of road III-862 city of Plovdiv. Dear Minister, the road is part of the Republican road network with a total length of 35 km, of which 25 km are asphalted. The remaining 10 km are a mountain road in poor condition due to the construction and repair work unfinished in 2008. The reason to stop the renovation in 2012 is the lack of funds. The division from the village of Plochnik to Brestovitsa was prepared for laying asphalt flooring, implemented extension and strengthening of the road with reinforced concrete walls to the river, made a number of drainage drains and waterfalls, and shafts, a major layer of crushed stone is laid. But due to the lack of any seal on the gravel and the lack of ditches to take the water into shafts, each year after the melting of the snows and the pouring rains, the road is dug up and destroyed. Multiple falls, bumps and holes are formed with depths of 40 cm. If timely measures are not taken to store and complete the section of the road, property owners will be deprived of normal access to them. In this regard, my question is as follows: what measures will you take to finance and complete the quoted section of the road?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u142	Thank you, Mr. Tashkov. Madam Secretary, come in, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u143	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Tashkov, the efforts of the Ministry and in particular of the Road Infrastructure Agency are fully aimed at finding a solution in the direction of improving the performance of all roads in Bulgaria, ensuring safety and comfort when passing through each road section. However, the implementation of any repairs is linked to the provision of financial resources. Road III-862 town of Plovdiv "Mihalkovo village," from km 17+600 to km 30+501, between the village of Boykovo and the end of the village of Lilkovo is located in a mountain area, which is why many repairs have been carried out and has always been looking for a way to deal with the most severely compromised areas. Depending on the amount of the budgetary resources provided under the Programme, the current renovation and maintenance activities are carried out periodically to improve this road section by profiling the broken-stone flooring, filling in, cleaning collapses, deposits, mud and leaf mass, waterfalls and ditches. In 2018 and 2019 there was profiling and filling of broken stone flooring, repair of single holes, re-asphalting of areas with deformities, cutting of shrubs and cleaning of fallen stones, with the funds being about 100 thousand. lv. An additional 12 600 BGN is provided until September this year. for urgent activities. The Road Infrastructure Agency has not stopped to search and consider various opportunities for providing financial resources to complete the repair works of this section about 13 km from the branch for the village of Boykovo to the village of Lilkovo on the Republic road. It is precisely because of the limited financial framework that the road has not been laid down in the 2020 investment programme that the Agency is ready and will seek opportunities 2021 after providing the necessary financial resources to entrust the design and start of the construction works. You know that part of this road does not even have pavement, part of this road is without pavement, ground road, part of it has a layer of non-solid asphalt concrete and one layer of asphalt concrete, the section is six meters wide, and there is also part of this road that is broken-stone pavement with only one layer of bandage. So the funds that are needed for a thorough rehabilitation of this road section are in considerable order. In 2020, the Agency will seek such opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u144	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Tashkov, the line?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u145	Thank you, Madam Minister, for the efforts you have made over the years back in time to maintain a normal state and passability of the road. But most of all, it hurts me and the representatives who have come to my reception by the Initiative Committee that for the past 12 years only cosmetic fillings with broken stone are being done, which temporarily improve his condition, but not what should actually be done. The bad news is that the funds that have been invested are several million levs in 2008 - 2009 - are going so, rudely, into the ravine. I go through there several times, the broken stone digs up, the support walls give way, the drains are already clogged. It's the biggest pain. I am a radiant, as are you, of course, of preserving and restoring the roads, but in my opinion the section is not large, it is about a 7 km to the village of Lilkovo in which these millions are invested. According to rough calculations, it took about a million to get there. lv. for the restoration of the crushed-stone flooring and for laying a layer of bandages, for example, or a non-solid mixture, which will significantly improve and preserve what was put into the repair in 2008 - 2009. There is a need for several places to be fitted with handrails and several road signs and the issue will be resolved. For me you can find the opportunity to provide funds and this time to be restored. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u146	Thank you, Mr. Tashkov. Would you like to use the back? Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u147	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Tashkov, you know that 13 years ago in 2007 - 2009 - part of the construction and repair activities of this section were carried out, which were terminated because the 2 million insured. Five hundred and sixty thousand. lv. It wasn't enough for his graduation. What is done is not enough and is stopped as activities. This time it is 5 km, at this third-class time you know it, and in order to be in a good operational state, a significant financial resource is needed. Once again, the Agency will be looking for opportunities to secure it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u148	2021 Thank you, Madam Secretary. The next question is from the MPs Ivan Chenchev and Rumen Georgiev about the mandatory restoration of sidewalks, pedestrian paths and stops on road II-81 Kostinbrod. Here you are, Mr. Chenchev, to present your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u149	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would very much like, after your reply, to say thank you, as the colleague who asked you a question before me. Here the situation is such that we need not an effective but an effective response, rather even an effective and real action. For road II-81 Kostinbrod We have been alerted by residents of the village who are worried. They have written a letter to the relevant institutions, including your own, and for exactly one year there has been no reply to this letter, although there is correspondence between the Road Infrastructure Agency and the municipality of Kostinbrod. People have familiarized themselves with this file between the municipality and API. The answer is actually made so as to justify the start and implementation of a project. A project is made on an investor's assignment in order to decide certain objectives. More importantly, in this case, it is to facilitate and protect citizens and means of transport travelling from and to Buchin Pass from accidents. In this case, however, everything is transferred to the projector, and it is based on the fact that in geodetic filming and project research work no pedestrian paths and artificial bumps have been identified. I will introduce you to the specific problems in my form, but I would very much like to go with you, because this time I really travel on it, as it is in my constituency, I have met at the site of the problems. I can tell you that there are currently no conditions for a normal existence and the daily life of citizens there is difficult due to at least four or five major problems that cannot be resolved. There you have to establish control, because in fact this is a new path that must facilitate the inhabitants, as it is made for this purpose. Needless to say here what is our role as MPs, what is yours as a ministry. In fact, we all need to protect the interests of the residents and the citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u150	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u151	I'll continue in the back, but only one sentence, Mr. Chairman. Moreover, the road for Mezdra is being repaired now, you know, and the route Kostinbrod Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u152	Thank you. Madam Minister, you have two minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u153	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chenchev, dear Mr. Georgiev! Republican Road II-81 Sofia Of these, 43 km are rehabilitated with funds under Operational Programme The station, included in the project "Lot 2", road II-81 Kostinbrod "Buchin Pass" is 22.2 km long, starts from km 8+200, which is located in the regulation of the town of Kostinbrod, and ends at km 30+400, the route passes through the regulation of two settlements "300 m in the town of Kostinbrod and the village of Buchin Pass, in the settlement the length of the section is 3.4 km. What I got as information from the Road Infrastructure Agency. A detailed overview of the route for which a protocol has been drawn up, attached to the design documentation, has been made in the preparation of the tender procedure for the selection of a contractor for the construction and in the implementation of the technical assignment for the site. Specifically, the sidewalks in the settlements are found to have variable widths filled with pavement plates, asphalt, concrete and land masses. The project solution provides for replacement of existing concrete curbs with new ones, restoration of the pavements within the settlements, a width of 1.50 m, corresponding to the new level position and the new concrete curbs built. The project is set to spoil and restore 744 sq. m with existing asphalt pavements in several areas. For existing emergency sites and bus stops pockets, re-asphalting is envisaged. There is no provision for the construction of new ones. In the construction of Lot 2 all activities in restoring the existing sidewalks betted in the project are carried out. Regarding the signal by the residents of the village of Buchin, an opinion from the projector of the site is requested and the answer states that during the surveying of the projector, there was no evidence of pedestrian paths and artificial irregularities in the urbanized territory of the village of Buchin Pass. As regards the construction of pedestrian paths, the section in the section, according to Regulation No 2 for road markings, pedestrian paths, type of the zebra, does not apply to roads and streets on which there is no sidewalk on one or both sides of the road, as is the case in the urbanised territory of the village of Buchin Pass. As regards the request for the construction of stops for bus stops, I inform you that the existing position of bus stops along the route is reserved. Under the technical project, part of the movement's initiative, which is agreed with the municipality of Kostinbrod and the Regional Police Directorate, is laid down and implemented only replacement of vertical trade union with road signs D24. According to the Project, two bus stops are adjacent to the section, which are provided for and executed laying of new asphalt layers. The construction of Lot 2 was carried out according to the approved technical design and the regulatory requirements for verification...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u154	Thank you, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u155	...namely the range of the existing route. There is a signed protocol.. Model No 16, as well as by an authorised representative of Kostinbrod municipality. There is also a permit for use in November 2019. Just give me a few seconds, Mr. Chairman. I talked to the Road Infrastructure Agency, the Management Board, at your request, you can go along with them and take a look at the road section through Buckin Pass. What is implemented under the Project is the restoration of existing facilities along the route, so if there is anything preventing normal and safe movement there, we are ready to discuss it on site. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u156	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Chenchev, you're entitled to a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u157	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Dear Minister, there's been some confusion. I told you because I rather wanted to listen to what you will answer me. The gap consists in several points, but they are fundamental. First of all, this time it's new. You said that there was, as you put it, pockets on the road section where they were, that there couldn't be a pedestrian path, a type of zebra, if there were no sidewalks on either side. Dear Minister, all this was in the village of Buchin Pass. I'm telling you because I've been walking down this stretch since I was a kid. Notice, at the stop in the direction of Kostinbrod, there is no turn-off at the stop that existed, there is no turn-off! Travelling vehicles from Godech and Iskrets stop on the road, which creates conditions for accidents. The curb of the pedestrian paths and the curbs in general are much higher than the level of the bus stop and for the citizens with difficulties. The people themselves want a stop at the level of the station as before. I'm emphasising! Travelers from Sofia and Kostinbrod to Buckin Pass prefer to go down to the restaurant and town hall who went there, knows there was his stop, and since the regulated stop is far away now, more than 500 meters, people find it difficult and uncomfortable because the roads to the villa zone start where the regulated stop was. Not to mention the sidewalks. What you said about the sidewalks is good to see and the quality of the sidewalk, the spilled faction, gravel on the left side. In general, these are questions that require a lot of answers. And let's not say anything else. The axis of the road passing through the village is nowhere interrupted in front of all the properties located near it. This means that drivers of motor vehicles must also make violations. Besides, it's dangerous for the traffic along this road, which is currently very busy because of the repair of the route to Mezdra. That's what raises a lot of questions, and there's no way you know, there's just no way someone's been sleeping somewhere, they haven't done their job! Is he an investor, is he a contractor, are they control bodies, but the job isn't done. We've got a new path that's been handled somehow in a piece or on top of it. I'm sorry that you have to hear this thing. I told you, I really wish I could thank you for the control work done, for the work done, so that we can make everyday life easier for the residents. Most responsiblely, I invite you because you invited me to go there together, inspect this road section and get acquainted with a lot of problems. Moreover after a few hundred meters, as I said, besides the station is a major branch to the so-called store in the village, which leads from Iskrets to Svoge and connects other cities of Bulgaria. I'm really asking for serious treatment. Keep in mind that when you enter the road section, there is a very serious decline from Kostinbrod in the direction of Godech, where there are no so-called lying officers. For this reason, the means of transport, whether or not heavy, enter at high speed in the village itself. These are all prerequisites, God forbid, for serious accidents.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u158	You're running out of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u159	The residents are worried, and I'm gonna thank you and I really want to get this done, because somebody's been sleeping on this one somewhere.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u160	Mrs. Secretary, the doppelganger?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chenchev, I have already made the commitment to organize such a working meeting on the ground...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u162	Just so I know, just so I know.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u163	...at which to discuss and seek solutions for the problems mentioned by you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u164	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We continue with a question from the MP Christian Vigenin about a severe problem with the water supply for the villages of Drama, Krumovo and Miladinovtsi, the municipality of Tundzha. You have the floor, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u165	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! In recent years, the problem of providing water for drinking-bit needs in the small settlements has become increasingly growing in the municipality of Tundjas, mainly due to the heavily depreciated water supply network. Particularly severe is the situation with the water supply system for the villages of Drama, Krumovo and Miladinovtsi, which according to the estimates of the city of Yambol, suffers total losses of 95%. The main reason is the outdated supply and distribution of water. The Municipality of Tundzha has prepared a technical project for the project "Drama "Krumovo "Miladinovtsi" at a estimated value of 3 million. 627 thousand. BGN, but these funds are not in the financial capacity of the municipality and of the Bulgarian City of Yambol. In this regard, I would like to ask with a view to ensuring normal living conditions for nearly 900 inhabitants of the three villages of Tundja Municipality: are you ready to provide the necessary means in an urgent order and when is the implementation of the project prepared by Tundja Municipality planned? I would just add that recently there were reports on the situation in the three villages in the national media as well. It's really more than an emergency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u166	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Madam Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u167	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Vigenin, Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works is a priority finance within the established annual capital expenditures for improving the water infrastructure in the country, for which there is a building permit and the possibility of the timely implementation of the construction and installation activities. To date, the municipalities' requests for financing of individual water projects are worth just over 900 million. lv. On 24 August 2020, the Ministry received a request from the municipality of Tundzha to provide funds for the realization of a site: The municipality has a technical project prepared and the estimated value of the construction works is 3 million. 627 thousand. lv. without VAT, the site is divided into four stages. In order to plan the provision of funds for the purpose of phased implementation of the site, it is necessary to complement all documentation, including the submission of information on the implementation of the building planning and execution procedures, as well as a building permit. The conditions set out above are a prerequisite for starting the next stage: Financial guarantee of the project of the municipality. I would just like to stress that the funds in the Capital Programme of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works are limited and are at times many times less than the needs of the submitted project proposals. In this regard, the created Bulgarian Water Holding is designed to finance precisely such projects through internal redistribution of funds and support of the water companies so that they can implement those sites for which they do not find funds in other financial sources. In addition, we will also assist the water companies to fulfil their obligations.. unpaid funds to the Ministry of Environment and Water, the fees they pay for water collection. We have an agreement with the Minister of Environment and Water that these funds will be allocated to water supply, repair and rehabilitation of water supply systems through the Environmental Management Organisation, as you know that the PUPOS mainly finances sewerage systems and their rehabilitation, so that the municipalities will have the opportunity to obtain funds to implement such important projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u168	You have the floor for a line, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u169	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I cannot say that I am pleased with the answer, but let's just say I am pleased with the fact that the Ministry is still communicating with Tundzha Municipality and is trying to find concrete solutions. I hope that soon funding can be provided for the start of the project and that step by step will be implemented. I am aware that the water supply network is actually one of Bulgaria's most serious problems at the moment, and I would say that the billions that are needed to renew, replace this network are many. They are not under a single budget or the budget of a ministry. Here specifically on this issue and the BSP has some ideas to have a special several-year program to focus on precisely this issue. Now I do not want to comment on the bigger picture, it is bleak and I am sure that the next government will have to take this very seriously, but on the particular issue. However, when there are such cases that are really difficult when it comes to, as I mentioned, 95% water loss and, in fact, most of the day-to-day, these people have no water from the year, I think that the resource could focus on the most urgent such cases. I really call on you to resolve this issue more quickly, and the municipality of Tundja for my part, I understand that it has taken the necessary measures in relation to your instructions, including a reserve, and to reduce the cost of the project, so I rely on a good cooperation with a municipality which, I would say, is unique because it does not have a central city and its work with the settlements of 44 in number, is very difficult, very complex and deserves the full support of you, as a minister, and of the Ministry, whoever heads it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u170	Thank you. A hole, Madam Secretary? I won't. That concludes the questions to you. Thank you for participating in parliamentary control today. We continue with three questions to Ms. Denitsa Sacheva, Minister of Labour and Social Policy. The first of the questions is the MPs Nadia Klisurska and Violeta Zheleva on the new mechanism for determining minimum wage and minimum wages by industry, which will gradually replace minimum insurance thresholds. Mrs. Jeleva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u171	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, at the end of the year, the topic of minimum wage is again on the agenda of what its size will be, will it be increased at all, because there was a request from employers' organizations to freeze it as well. Once again, however, the simplest and best solution is not available, this is the validation of an objective mechanism for determining minimum payments in the country. The National Statistical Institute and a number of other economic reports show that around 70% of workers are paid, remuneration close to the minimum wage. A few months ago, a national agreement between trade unions and employers' organisations was presented and advertised in the media, but so far there is no clarity about the level of negotiations and what exactly will be proposed to be formed in this mechanism for determining minimum wage, and the differences in regions on pay are also special. The negative effects of the minimum wage in Bulgaria are most visible at regional level. The topic is extensive and very serious, many questions are opened: what will be the indicators that will be included in the mechanism and will there be a regional aspect, and the most important question is: what will be the role and to what extent will the Ministry play in the formation of this mechanism? That is why my question to you is: how far have the negotiations for a new mechanism for determining the minimum wage, and also minimum remuneration by industry, because this has been presented to gradually replace the minimum insurance thresholds in view of the approaching budget procedure for the next year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u172	Thank you, Mrs. Jeleva. You have the floor to answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u173	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Jeleva, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In implementation of the Management Program of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017 - 2021, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy will propose the minimum wage for 2021 to increase to 650 BGN. Active income policy supports development, competitiveness and modernisation of the labour market, while at the same time being an undisputed factor in overcoming poverty and improving the living level of the population. The results achieved require constant efforts to improve procedural frameworks to determine the minimum wage for work. The introduction of mechanisms based on strengthening the role of social partners and promoting collective bargaining are a natural continuation of government policy. The efforts of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to reach consensus have been reflected in the National Tripartite Agreement signed on 17 June 2020 between the government and the national representative organizations of employers, employees and employees. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 7 of the signed agreement provides for the renewal of negotiations on the development and adoption of a transparent mechanism for strengthening the contractual start in determining the minimum wage for the country, which is in line with Convention No 131 of the International Labour Organisation and its upgrade with a procedure for subsequent negotiation for minimum wages on economic activities. Within the framework of repeated trilateral meetings, progress has been made on the main parameters of the future mechanism, possible boundaries, indicators, procedural deadlines and other basic conceptual rights and obligations of the parties have been outlined. The talks between the Ministry of Labour, trade unions and employers continue, regularly providing information to all countries. Results are expected to be presented at the beginning of November and work in its final part will continue in a trilateral format. Negotiations shall also be conducted in line with one of the European Union's leading initiatives: all workers in the Union shall be protected from a fair minimum wage allowing a decent life, supporting the implementation of Principle No 6 on salaries of the European Pillar of Social Rights. Bulgaria has supported the introduction of common guidelines on a recommendation to determine the minimum wage, where each Member State according to its economic development and national traditions and peculiarities and in accordance with the Convention No 131 of the International Labour Organisation can determine the amount of the minimum wage.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u174	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mrs. Klisurska, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u175	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, from the answer you are giving us at the moment, it is clear that for another year the vision of employers, trade unions and our governing government is to be administered again and increased the minimum wage without introducing an effective mechanism to give predictability, predictability to Bulgarian workers. I would like to say a few words about statistics at European level. In Bulgaria, compared to the countries to which our workforce migrates, wages are from four to six times lower, and compared to the average European salary of five times lower. Employment productivity between 2000 and 2020 average productivity in Bulgaria has increased 65 times. However, our country continues to be at the bottom of the ranking, with our labour productivity being 44% compared to the European average. We cannot fail to find that we, compared to the average European, are twice as productive, but our wages are four times lower. This shows that the work of the Bulgarian worker is highly underestimated. In developed European countries, the added value of labour returns more to the worker than to the investor, and this makes these countries an attractive centre for the workforce, especially for the highly qualified one. The existence of a workforce should be the ultimate goal of the employment policies of a country's national responsible governance, but this labour force could not be held solely by outsourcing or by producing at hand. We cannot keep it with the low levels of remuneration, because more than 70%, even more than Bulgarian citizens, receive the minimum wage. If we look at insurance thresholds for economic activities, we will see that over 75% of these thresholds are close to the minimum wage. In our view, from what you have answered, you do not currently have a clear answer that an effective mechanism for determining the minimum wage will be introduced this year, and such instruments have been introduced throughout the European Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u176	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u177	Mr. Chairman, let me finish. They've been introduced. One of the instruments is related to this and I think it is adequate. What needs to happen in our labour market is to tie the minimum wage into the gross added value of an worked man-hour. For 2020, the minimum hourly rate, notice, is BGN 3.63, which means that less than 20% of the added value of labor was returned to the worker in the form of remuneration. Therefore, the minimum wage should be linked to at least 30% of gross added value and it should be at levels much higher than those offered to us from 650 BGN and be about 800 BGN. Another effective tool, which tracks the minimum wage levels in the European Union, is the commitment to the average wage, which is currently BGN 1355 in Bulgaria, which means that the adequacy of the state in this situation in terms of the incomes of Bulgarian citizens should be extremely important to show competence and tools for adequate increase of incomes, and the minimum wage of Bulgarian citizens under insurance thresholds on economic activities should be close to BGN 800. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u178	Mrs. Klisurska, double time. But I see you have other questions, and I'll get it from there. A hole? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u179	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Let me disagree with you, because from the answer I gave you, it has actually become clear that the government is trying to maximise the promotion of collective bargaining, talks and negotiations between employers and trade unions, and has also been stated in the reply that at the beginning of November you will be able to get acquainted with the work that has been done so far. Many steps have been taken precisely in terms of raising incomes within this government, including some of the questions that you have asked. The European practices at the moment are rather talking about the median salary and in Bulgaria with the figure 650 BGN. In fact, we're exceeding the median salary. On the other hand, what I would like to stress is that thanks to the measure 60/40 it can be seen to a significant extent, and in each subsequent design of this measure, how much more the real thresholds for which the people in Bulgaria are provided increase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u180	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The next question is again by the MPs Nadia Klisurska and Violeta Zheleva regarding the amount of guaranteed minimum income
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u181	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Minister Sacheva! Inequality and poverty are increasing, and the crisis has shown that there is an extreme need for more sustainable solutions, predictability and predictability, solutions related to the security of the most severe and socially vulnerable groups. The Bulgarian system for guaranteed minimum income is completely inadequate and should have been changed a long time ago. This is about 75 BGN, which are not guaranteed, but are based on the basis on which a person applies, and depending on a number of conditions can receive a percentage. It has been frozen since 2018. In view of the approaching budgetary procedure, and all the promises and measures that you are putting out in the public domain right now, it becomes clear that you are not introducing adequate proposals to the Bulgarian citizens to lead to a guaranteed minimum security of experience. A single methodology for adequate minimum income has been discussed throughout Europe for a long time. The amount of minimum income guaranteed is the basis for receiving all social benefits. It mainly regulates the access and amount of aid in the various supplements. In this regard, Madam Minister, my question is: do you foresee changes in the amount of the guaranteed minimum income for the next 2021 and will an adequate toolkit be introduced at last to give predictability and predictability to the Bulgarian citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u182	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u183	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Klisurska, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It is not the first time that public attention is focused on changing the guaranteed minimum income in relation to social support with the presumption that it will thus extend the scope of support and increase the amount of aid. In the situation we are currently in under the conditions of a COVID-19 pandemic, this activity is understandable. However, it should not be forgotten that any change in this indicator must be made very carefully and precisely in order not to allow disproportions and imbalances, and not only financial ones that can have a much less favourable impact on the coordination of sectoral policies. Where action is taken to change the guaranteed minimum income, its direct impact not only on social aid under the Social Assistance Act should be taken into account. A thorough comprehensive assessment is needed because it has a direct impact on the Social Security Code with regard to the social pension for old age and the resulting changes in the whole system of pensions that are not related to employment and the additions thereto. The Child Protection Act also relates to this indicator because it depends on the amount of financial assistance for prevention and reintegration for raising a child in relatives and foster families. In this sense, the understanding of the change of guaranteed minimum income is a non-alternative mechanism for solving the problems of the scope and adequacy of social assistance, is wrong and can lead to serious problems for coordination with employment policies and the related impact on the real economy sector. The priority we all support is to stimulate people's employment and employment and limit their dependence on social assistance as a major source of income. Of course, this does not necessarily mean freezing the guaranteed minimum income, but it is extremely important to assess the exact moment and the real financial opportunities for making changes in its size so as to realise an optimal social and economic effect. This is the approach of our social assistance policy. Evidence of this is also the last increase in the guaranteed minimum income for 2018, which was more than 15%. We should note that the effectiveness of social assistance is not only a function of guaranteed minimum income. On the contrary, with the measures implemented by us in the energy support target, the system of individual coefficients, the mechanism for automatic compensation of the annual pension increase, exclusion of income from seasonal employment, and aid under the Regulations for implementing the Social Assistance Act, such as the introduction of new types of aid, the facilitation of access through the system of individual percentages depending on the level of risk, etc., is achieved precisely this fine adjustment of the system to ensure better social protection. In this sense, no change in the amount of the guaranteed minimum income is envisaged, but this does not mean limiting the opportunities for adequate support for people who are in a critical situation. Let me remind you that aid was provided for the parents of children up to 14 years of age who should remain at home in relation to the health measures on the occasion of the CIVID-19, new one-off aid was provided, including before enrolling for the eighth grade. We have a willingness and attitude for new adequate reactions to any new situation. Of course, despite the positive effect of these actions, we will continue...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u184	Get it over with.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u185	...and in the future to look for opportunities for better social assistance for all citizens. Finally, I recall that, at the end of this month, by a decision of the National Assembly, we should also present an analysis of the development of the Code of Social Support in which we will address all these topics.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u186	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Are you giving up? All right, Mrs. Jeleva, here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u187	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, your answer made two things clear. First of all, the guaranteed minimum income for another year will be frozen and will be within 75 BGN. Secondly, you have stated that a complex assessment of the mechanism for guaranteeing minimum income is needed. Well, do it. That is why we are opening up the topic and that is why we are putting the question, because in the last days we are in the situation when it opens, so to call the political basket of promises and use the "Search and it will be given to you" only not as much as you want, of course. At the moment this is the principle of work, this is the instrument of work on social policy. In carrying out a good social policy, however, there must be predictability and consistency. At this stage, this does not happen to some, there will be social benefits and social support, and others will not. The guaranteed minimum income is one of the main instruments of social assistance. However, when it comes to whether it is related to the welfare of citizens, it falls behind in many indicators. That is why we said that it is not normal and it is not fair for another year to freeze. Yeah, $10. it was increased in 2018. But I would like to say that from 2009 to 2018 it was within 65 BGN. During this time, it is a percentage of the minimum wage around 30%, and now it is very behind, with 12% of the minimum wage. It must be linked and linked to the welfare of citizens, to the poverty line, to the minimum wage, and at this stage this is not happening. I understand why you're freezing it and why it won't be increased for another year. This will cost a huge amount of money, and eventually the budget can be somewhat less set up, as it has so far, because it is done on the principle: as much as we have, we will give.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u188	Get it over with, Mrs. Jeleva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u189	However, in view of the pace at which our economic system is developing, with the ageing of the population, with the structure of the social support system, which in the years will be put at great risk, we need to do the analysis. I started by saying that an analysis and evaluation of the system of guaranteed minimum income should be done, and that is not done. I really expect this to be presented to us at the end of the year, because, you see, for these, there will be, and for these, it will not be fair and it damages all the citizens of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u190	Madam Minister, a duplicate, if you will. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u191	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Jeleva, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would not agree with this, and once again I would like to stress that we are talking about two different philosophies - you are talking about a stronger predominance of the system of social assistance, and we are talking about a stronger predominance of employment and promotion of employment. There are no people who are excluded from the social assistance system and who we haven't taken care of. There is no such hypothesis that we give to one and we don't give to another. On the contrary, what I tried to tell you in the answer is that there are simply different tools to support all the families in need, whether it be people with disabilities, elderly people, lonely living people. So what you expect is a complex assessment, you will be able to see it and get it within the framework of the analysis, which is being prepared at the moment and which is assigned to the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, together with the experts from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. We have an obligation to present it to the National Assembly on October 31st.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u192	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The last question to you is from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova on the policy of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy in the implementation of compulsory pre-school education for children of 4 years of age. Mrs. Naydenova, please ask your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u193	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, Members of the National Assembly! Duration: Until the beginning of the academic 2023 " 2024" under the Pre-school and School Education Act, municipalities shall create the necessary conditions for the implementation of compulsory pre-school education under art. 8, para. 1 of the same law for children 4 years of age. Dear Minister, I have this question for you: what is the policy and what actions will the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy take to protect the rights of four-year-old children in implementing compulsory pre-school education and ensuring the social inclusion of 4-year-olds with specific needs?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u194	Thank you, Mrs. Naydenova. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u195	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Naydenova, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The inclusion in the educational process and equal access to education are among the basic rights of children and are a key prerequisite for improving their well-being, reducing inequalities and providing an opportunity for an equal start. Although the implementation of compulsory pre-school education for children of four years is not within the direct competence of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, our shared common task is to guarantee the right of accessible and quality education for all children. As you know, regular visits to pre-school groups is one of the conditions for receiving monthly family support for raising a child until graduating from secondary school. In addition, when monthly family benefits are provided in kindergarten, they may also be for full or partial payment of a kindergarten fee, as well as for the purchase of textbooks, teaching aids and other goods necessary for the child to attend a pre-school group. Directed by the Social Assistance and Actively participate in the mechanism for joint work of institutions covering, including and preventing dropping out of the educational system of children and students in compulsory pre-school years. A valuable resource for additional support for children and students, including children with special educational needs, are consultative and daily forms of social services such as public support centres, social rehabilitation and integration centres and day centres for children or young people with disabilities. The care and education of children at an early age are among the most important investments that contribute to full personal growth. The promotion of the school readiness of children for inclusion in the educational system is also among the main objectives of the operation "Services for Early Childhood Development" under the Operational Program "Human Resources Development" which ensures the sustainability of the early inclusion integrated services for early childhood development. These services include activities on individual pedagogical support for children with disabilities, additional pedagogical training to increase school readiness for equal start at school, individual and group work with children and parents, including those from vulnerable groups. I would particularly like to emphasise for this project that there are 62 contracts with municipalities worth 51 million. lv. and they currently provide integrated services to more than 30 thousand children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u196	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mrs. Naydenova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u197	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, Members of the National Assembly! Statistics at the moment show that 80% of 4-year-olds attend kindergartens. You'll say, what about the other 20%? It is a question of reflection on us the Members of the National Assembly and the executive power. After a grace period of three years, four-year-olds where there is a condition must start their pre-school education. Synchronization between institutions exercising child protection and care is also possible to face new challenges. The Ministry of Education and Science has already said that they will provide free aids and food. We are waiting for the health ministry's response on personnel security with medical professionals, and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy through the State Agency for Child Protection exercises control over compliance with the rights of the child by all state, municipal and private schools, kindergartens and nurseries and service units. We expect the Chair of the Agency, who is legally obliged to carry out this control, not only on a signal or signals, but also through periodic checks on an established plan. I think that priority should at least be those periodic checks in the initial years. Secondly, I believe that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy has the potential and expertise to actually contribute to the scope of 4-year-old pre-school children to be growing up and not dropping children for social reasons, including children with specific needs. And thank you for your answer, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u198	Thank you, Mrs. Naydenova. Are you guys gonna use the back or not?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u199	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u200	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Enjoy your work. We move on to the group of questions to the Minister of Interior Mr. Hristo Terziyski, who will answer a question from the National Representative Christian Vigenin regarding compliance with anti-epidemic measures in detention facilities. Mr. Vigenin, if you'd like to discuss your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u201	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! In the September protests, on several occasions there were mass arrests of protesters. In relation to them, among other issues that have been raised more than once, I have been contacted with signals about which I would like to ask if guidance for the implementation of anti-epidemic measures has been sent to the district police stations in the city of Sofia? Is there a control of their compliance in detention facilities, and is there a violation? If possible, if you can answer, in addition to the detention places, are checks carried out in the district police departments themselves and in the sectors where documents are issued to the Bulgarian citizens, since in the meantime, knowing that I will ask this question to you, there have also been signals that mass officials are serving citizens without masks, no disinfectants and so on? I'll make a line after that with a little more detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u202	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u203	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Vigenin, before I answer, I will make a little clarification that the Ministry of Interior has no place of detention. These are detention sites in implementation of the Ministry of Interior Act. The detentions are within 24 hours. In order to limit the spread of COVID-19, the police authorities are entrusted with additional activities related to the implementation of anti-epidemic measures resulting from the orders of the Minister of Health. Together with doctors, first-line police officers are together in the fight against the spread of COVID-19, with their daily work contributing to the containment of the disease. I use the occasion once again to express my gratitude to all police officers who have been tirelessly carrying out their duties in a high-risk environment over the past few months. As regards the measures taken to protect the health and safety of persons placed in detention places which are subject to the Ministry of Interior and to staff working in these places, in the context of the Coronavirus pandemic, I provide you with the following information: In connection with the World Health Organization's declared infectious disease pandemic with the order of the Minister of Health of 30 January 2020, an operating group has been established which prepares recommendations to prevent infection and prevent the spread of the disease. On the basis of these guidelines, the Medical Institute of the Ministry of Interior has issued instructions to all directors of all structures in the Ministry of Interior. A job risk assessment card has been prepared. Three groups of measures are detailed: general, specific and action plan, in case there was a person suspected or confirmed to be infected with COVID-19 in the workplace. Details are explained, first of all, how to clean and disinfect in cases of contamination, selection of disinfectant, necessary additional actions at the beginning of application of a new disinfectant at sites, method of disinfection of small and large surfaces, method of cleaning soft fabrics, safety of material, disinfecting by bactericide lamps, instructions for disinfection of means of transport for service transport, techniques for applying disinfectants when handling different surfaces, instructions for observing personal hygiene of staff, instructions for observing hand hygiene and what the respiratory label, social distance and how to take care of food safety. As the epidemic situation is dynamic and is constantly changing, any new up-to-date information we receive on a daily basis is immediately brought to the attention of all police officers by electronic means. The State Health Control Sector at the Medical Institute of the Ministry of Interior shall carry out ongoing health control on hygiene and disinfection at detention premises as well as targeted control of signals received. By 30 September 2020, four alerts were received for non-compliance with anti-epidemic measures and...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u204	Get it over with, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u205	I'm done, Mr. Chairman. Specific four signals. No infringements have been detected in the checks carried out by this sector. The anti-epidemic regime at detention premises shall consist of daily cleaning, disinfection and, if necessary, carrying out necessary disinfection activities. The current disinfection shall be carried out with preparations approved in accordance with the list of the Ministry of Health. In the case of a disease of employees of the Ministry of Interior or of a detained person in the district management, mandatory disinfection shall be carried out in the outbreaks. A PCR test shall be carried out in case of suspicion of COVID-19 disease among employees and detainees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u206	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Vigenin, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u207	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! I have no doubt that such instructions have been sent and that the requirements for the employees themselves, their jobs and so on are probably met. My question was specifically about the detention sites. From what I understand, there are some specific cases, I do not know if they are the specific signals that have come to you, but there is no way to say that anti-epidemic measures are being followed when three detainees are in a single cell, which cannot be ventilated for example when there are more than 10 prisoners in a single cell without masks, there are no disinfectants. Especially now that the infected are already over 500 a day, I think you should take a closer look at the problem for which I refer to you. It is clear to me that there is no way to reverse these problems, but I really call on you to pay more serious attention, first of all, for the detention places to provide disinfectants, to make it clear that no more people can be put in a single cell, as the risk is already too high. It was also noted that especially in protests, and also after detention, including searches, a number of policemen do not use protective equipment to put themselves and the detainees at risk. I pay attention once again to the sectors where personal documents are issued to citizens. I think that despite the prescriptions, from what I receive as information, at least in several of the district police stations in Sofia, there are more people inside than is permissible, employees work without masks. There is no employee to point to the use of disinfectants. Moreover, too many people go through these sectors. I think these are things that are very important and you as Minister should pay special attention. The fact that the checks do not establish an infringement seems logical to me, since the infringement is for a given moment. By the time the inspection is over, things are probably getting better. So please pay special attention. Of course, I also ask citizens to follow these questions and to address either me or my colleagues when they see such violations. I take the commitment of your attention to provide such signals if they do not reach you directly through me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u208	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. I immediately send you a signal: there are MPs from your group who daily and constantly do not wear masks. If you can cooperate, I'd be grateful. Are you guys gonna use the back or not? No. We move on to the next issue by the MPs Anton Kutev, Stoyan Mirchev and Yavor Bojankov on the actions of the Ministry of Interior during the handover of Abdullah Byuk to the Turkish authorities in August 2016. Mr. Kutev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u209	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, as has already become known to the majority of the Bulgarian society, and from publications in the Western press, and in "Spigel" and in other newspapers, the problem with the transmission of Abdullah Buuk in 2016 is actually extremely important not only for us but for the whole of Europe. Why is it important? Let's start with a brief memory of what happened. In March 2016, Interpol issued a request for the extradition of Buyuk on charges of terrorism and money laundering. At two courts, it is the Sofia City Court and subsequently the Sofia Court of Appeal, refusing to extradite Byuk with the reasons that no evidence of the crimes in which the Turkish citizen is accused has been presented on the Turkish side and that the request for extradition is entirely politically motivated. The Court's last and final judgment was delivered on 28 March 2016. In July 2016, Vice President Margarita Popova refused political asylum. It is interesting that on August 9, 2016, Turkish Prime Minister Yilderum, one day before the secret surrender of the Turkish citizen to the authorities in Ankara, announced that Mr. Byuk's extradition to Turkey was under preparation in neighbouring Bulgaria. Officially, as far as I know, the opinion of the Ministry of Interior, which I hope you will confirm or deny, is that he was actually arrested during a routine check for leaked identity documents. How one day before that the Turkish Prime Minister knew this would happen, I expect you to explain to me. Finally, on 10 August, only four months after the final refusal of a Bulgarian court to extradite Mr. Buyuk, he was secretly taken to the Bulgarian-Turkish border and handed over to the Turkish authorities by the Bulgarian Ministry of Interior. In my opinion, several national and several international laws have been violated here in two main points, which I ask you to discuss with us now. The first, in my opinion, with this removal of Mr. Buyuk, was not given the opportunity for adequate legal protection and, accordingly, to appeal against the very decision of the Ministry of Interior, with which he was taken, because they arrested him and immediately took him away the same day. He can't have a lawyer, and he can't make the relevant lawyer's defense, and he can't appeal that decision. The second serious problem in all of this is that Bulgarian legislation is being circumvented, according to the law on extradition and a European arrest warrant, where extradition is not allowed to be circumvented. There's an article here. 33, which says that bypassing extradition, and enumerating exactly what happened, in my opinion, is precisely about circumventing extradition. I believe that art. 33 of this law has been violated.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u210	Get it over with, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u211	Yeah, I'm done. Just one sentence. These laws are part of the international legislation of the UN and of the European Union, which I think are adequately violated in the same way as the laws in Bulgaria. Please tell me what are the reasons for his removal and how do you see this whole process?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u212	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Mr. Terziski, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u213	Mr. President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Kutev, Mr. Mirchev and Mr. Bojankov, the mechanism for the implementation of forced return procedures is laid down in Directive 2008/115/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on common standards and procedures applicable in the Member States for the return of illegally staying third-country nationals. In accordance with the principles of the Directive, which is fully transposed into our national legislation, return is carried out in full respect of the rules established by European Union law and international law aimed at guaranteeing human rights and the dignity of persons. Turkish citizen Abdullah Buyuk has been returned from the country to implement an imposed administrative measure...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 41, p. 2 of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. The foreigner has not left the country until his authorised deadline. The order for the imposition of the forced administrative measure is issued by the Director of the Directorate of the Ministry of Interior, in accordance with the provision of art. 44 of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. In view of the fact that Byuk resides in the territory of the country with invalid identity document, he has not taken any action to legitimise his stay and has not provided the competent state authorities with information on address residence, the individual administrative act issued has been granted prior implementation of the measure under art. 60 of the Administrative Procedure Code. The person is aware of the individual administrative act issued to him, as well as the order and time limits for appeal. In the course of the legal procedure, the rights of the foreign citizen are not restricted. The legal grounds on which the removal from the country of illegally staying Turkish nationals and their transfer to the Republic of Turkey are carried out are contained in the Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Turkey on the readmission of illegally staying persons 2014/252/EU and the Foreigners Act in the Republic of Bulgaria. The imposition of the forced administrative measure is in line with the national list of safe countries of origin adopted by Decision of the Council of Ministers No 329/2005 notified to the European Commission. The adoption of the Republic of Turkey as a secure country is also shared by the Community under the statement European Union. Turkey, from 2016. Under the Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Turkey on the readmission of illegally staying persons and on the grounds of the criminal offences, the corresponding compulsory administrative measures under the Foreigners Act in the Republic of Bulgaria, a total of 431 Turkish nationals were returned to the Republic of Turkey for the period from 2016 to September 2020 as follows: This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the purchase, hire, maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance, repair and maintenance of equipment and equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance and maintenance of equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance of equipment for the maintenance of equipment for the maintenance of the equipment for the maintenance of the equipment for the maintenance of the equipment for the maintenance of the equipment for the maintenance of the equipment for the maintenance of the equipment for the maintenance and maintenance of the maintenance of the equipment for the maintenance of the equipment for the maintenance of the equipment for the maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance and repair, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance and repair, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance and repair, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance and repair, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, Under Agreements for the readmission of illegally staying persons concluded between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Member States of the European Union, from the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria for the violation of our law on foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, but with different residence statuses in other Member States, a total of 17 Turkish nationals have been taken out as follows...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u214	This is no longer relevant to the matter. It was about Buyuk. We get it. Thank you. Would you like a line, Mr. Kutev, or are you satisfied with the comprehensive answer?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u215	Mr. Minister, Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Let's be clear about what this is about. During the so-called coup attempt in Turkey, more precisely after it, we are talking about tens of thousands of people who have been arrested in Turkey, on odds about European laws at least. Some of them, as far as I know, are still in prisons, but the vast majority of them have been there for a long time. Accordingly, Erdogan's actions to collect some of these people from abroad were absolutely prominent. He several times during the period before the return of Byuk, talked about that he must be returned. To him, it's a political matter. The chief prosecutor did not deny that he had meetings with the Turkish authorities about the return of this particular person along with several others. That is to say, the Turks definitely want some political people back so that they can be punished for what they call a truce. There must have been a coup, only there was no doubt about Byuk's statements before that and a bunch of other people, which obviously proved that he was under threat. He said it himself. Why Margarita Popova refused protection in Bulgaria I cannot judge and this remains on her conscience. But that this person was threatened and was exported from Bulgaria in contradiction, I said again, at least two Bulgarian laws, but at least three international laws, because it is about the European Convention on Human Rights, in which art. 6: The possibility of appeal is violated. This is about the Geneva Convention, which is a fundamental document in human rights, where art. 33 is violated, and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, where we are talking about art. Art. 19 and art. 47. These members are obviously disturbed in extradition, or circumventing Buke's extradition. This is about fundamental human values of the European Union. Moreover, they are violated because of an agreement with Erdogan, in which he wants to deal with his political opponents. This is a huge problem for democracy for me. I know it's not your move. [[People's Representative Anton Kutev addressed Minister Terziyski]] that this has been done long before you and you are probably in a stupid situation right now to explain actions that, frankly, you probably wouldn't have taken, I hope. Either way, this is the action of the Bulgarian state headed by Boyko Borisov and then Prosecutor General Sotir Tsatsarov, who claims that he had nothing to do with it. Only if Sotir Tsatsarov has nothing to do with it, remains Boyko Borisov and the Interior Minister. I therefore hoped that you would guarantee me, the purpose of this issue is not to harass you about what your predecessor has done, but to ensure that Bulgarian citizens cannot be violated European legislation, democratic norms, human rights are sacred in Bulgaria. It is, however, the only thing that may have remained unscathed to the last in this country, and it depends on us and on you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u216	Mr. Minister, are you going to use the backrest or not? No. Actually, there was a disagreement, but it was well-motivated. The next question is from the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov on the actions of the Ministry of Interior in preventing acts of aggression and attacks against the lives and properties of residents of settlements in Northwestern Bulgaria. Here you are, Mr. Bogdanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u217	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, I appeal to you in my capacity as Member of the National Assembly from the 6 Mir City of Vratsa. I constantly receive signals from residents of different settlements in Northwestern Bulgaria about numerous acts of aggression by representatives of the Roma ethnicity, threatening the lives and properties of the people. Here I don't even need to mention complaints about loud music, yelling at night hours, illegal construction, uncontrolled pollution of adjacent areas of settlements, illegal logging, for which I have addressed the relevant authorities. But when it comes to serious crimes against the person and property of the people, I seek the support of your trusted ministry. In recent years, there have been cases of murders in the village of Malorad and the village of Galice. Only in the last two months Roma attacked and beat up the mayor of the village of Rogozen, a man set fire to his wife in the village of Three Wells, underage bullying the elderly in the village of Tishevitsa. A few days ago, an attempt was made on the murder of a young man in the town of Roman with a machete and barely saved by neighbors. The same family once beat up another young man in the city, and last year attacked with axes and machete forest policemen who responded to a signal of illegal logging. Dear Minister, in the environment created people in certain settlements feel defenseless and live in constant fear. Some of them have been robbed and threatened repeatedly. The younger ones are forced to move to other safer settlements, and the adults have already put up with their impasse and dare not even notify the authorities of the Ministry of Interior of theft or attack. According to a report of the victims, even police officers themselves fear revenge from aggressive families. Dear Mr Terziyski, regarding the above is also my question: what action does the Ministry of Interior take in preventing acts of aggression and abuse against the lives and properties of residents in settlements from Northwestern Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u218	Thank you, Mr. Bogdanov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u219	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bogdanov, the policy on countering and prevention of conventional crime is a priority in the Programme for Government Management of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2017 - 2021. In particular, an organization has been established in the Ministry of Interior to form mobile public order teams in all regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior. Mobile teams organise on-site visits and meetings in small settlements, as well as the reception of citizens to obtain information related to the state of public order and to counter crime. During the period 1 January "31 August 2020" reported a reduction of the registered crimes in the districts of Vidin by 1.4%, Pleven by 9.3%, Vratsa by 9.1%, and the lowest was the reduction in the district of Montana by 2%, compared to the same period of 2019. To improve the security environment in vulnerable areas and small settlements from Northwestern Bulgaria are planned weekly and specialized police operations are conducted in order to counter domestic crime. The heads of the districts hold meetings with the mayors of the settlements, where the specific problems and measures to be taken are discussed. Police inspectors conduct talks with lonely elderly people to explain how to protect, first of all, from telephone fraud, pet theft and personal property. A police presence shall be provided on the day of receipt of pensions in the post office area. Fighting domestic crime is a top priority in the ministry's work. The protection of the life and property of Bulgarian citizens is a major task in the activities of the Ministry of Interior. Joint operations of the police and the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria are held every day in the country to counter this type of crime. Representatives of law enforcement and judicial authorities are involved in the operations, which is a prerequisite for a rapid response in cases of abuse of the person and property of the citizens. For example, from the beginning of the year to the month of August, seven specialized police operations were conducted in 13 settlements in Vratsa District, together with the prosecution. In the course of the operations, 16 criminal crimes have been solved. 1034 police checks were carried out and 33 persons were detained, two persons were wanted, 10 rapid and 8 pre-trial proceedings were initiated, investigated in general order. 13 persons have been charged, five of whom are under a measure of incarceration. During the specialized operations, 737 motor vehicles have also been checked and 10 protocols under art. 65 of the SVR, as well as 69 acts...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u220	That has nothing to do with the matter, Mr. Terziysky. Go for Vidin and Montana and get it over with.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u221	In relation to the specific cases listed by you in the localities of Vratsa region, I brief you on the following: The two murders of women in the village of Malorad and in the village of Galice were solved and the perpetrators were detained. For the beating of the mayor of the village of Rogozen, pre-trial proceedings have been initiated by an unknown perpetrator, continuing all necessary procedural and investigative activities and operational and search activities. In connection with the burning woman in the village of Three Wells, it is found that the perpetrator of the deed is the man with whom she lives on a family basis. He's criminally committed and convicted, detained. As regards the cases of minors committing the theft of elderly people in the village of Tishevitsa, 16 crimes have been reported, of which only two have remained unsolved. Regarding the attempted murder of a young man in the city of Roman, he was found guilty of criminal acts and convicted of previous crimes. It is subject to all investigative actions and has made a confession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u222	Thank you, Mr. Terziysky. The question was about Northwestern Bulgaria. I suppose you should have received an answer to the same question for Montana and Vidin, but this is what we will hear from Mr. Bogdanov's reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u223	Dear Minister, I am generally pleased with what you have answered on the specifics of the cases. I do not deny that the authorities of the Ministry of Interior are making efforts to prevent such crimes. The fact is that yesterday there was such a specialized police operation in several villages where there were new revelations, but the fact is that not only the Ministry of Interior is responsible for ensuring public order. To a large extent, municipal guides should take this issue more seriously for Roma to be accommodated from other settlements. That's exactly the case in Roman. A family that has settled from a village of Lukovitsko, from another area, even in buildings, premises that have been abandoned years ago, and when a family comes, more new ones come after it until they are of the order of 50, 60 or 100 people settled themselves and then it becomes difficult to resolve any issue that will cause resistance, tension and so on. Otherwise, you are right that these people, whom you mentioned in particular, are either being charged or being investigated against them. But I think the role of the Ministry of Interior is to further strengthen the preventive activity in certain settlements, where there are such almost daily manifestations of crime, and to give the necessary security to people in the settlements of Northwestern Bulgaria to not be afraid, not to fear that when they go to bed at night, they will not wake up in the morning. There is definitely a fear that in the 21st century in European Bulgaria is quite reminiscent of some times that 150 years ago we have passed and we should not go back in time to allow people from Bulgaria to fear for their existence because of the irresponsible and criminal attitude of a certain ethnicity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u224	Thank you, Mr. Bogdanov. Mr. Minister, will you use the right to the back? There was a recommendation to pay a little more attention to prevention. So you agree? Okay. And the last question is from the National Representative Teodora Halacheva on the issue and replacement of personal documents to Bulgarian citizens. Mrs. Halacheva, I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u225	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Minister, my question is regarding the issue and replacement of the personal documents of the Bulgarian citizens. A year ago, I asked a similar question to your predecessor, Mr. Minister, and my motive was that in 2020 a huge number of Bulgarian citizens had to replace their identity documents. From Mr. Marinov's reply then I was under the impression that a serious organization was created and was thought about the conveniences of Bulgarian citizens in this administrative activity. But, unfortunately, this year we are seeing again long queues in front of the relevant services....of high temperatures, these days of cold and rain, waste of many nerves, of many emotions. Therefore, my question to you is: how do you evaluate the organization for issuing and replacing Bulgarian personal documents? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u226	Thank you, Mrs. Halacheva. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u227	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Halacheva, with a view to increasing the number of applications submitted for the issue of Bulgarian personal documents, the Ministry of Interior is continuing the implementation of the measures taken which ensure the continuity and quality of the service process for Bulgarian citizens. Every day we monitor and analyze the dynamics and the need for administrative centres for issuing personal documents to be flexible working hours. Therefore, in certain Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior, where it is noted that it is impossible to serve all citizens wishing to submit applications or receive ready documents within working hours, floating or extended working hours have been introduced. If necessary, it is also intended to provide an organisation of work on Saturday. Such is the practice imposed on the territory of the capital. The possibility of submitting applications for the issue of personal documents in each regional government for Bulgarian citizens with a permanent address in the territory of the respective regional directorate is not necessary to go to the district of residence, there may be another. The possibility of uncovering new state units is realized at the units of the Bulgarian identity documents in the SDVR and the ODMI. A successful reception of applications for the issue of personal documents shall be carried out and in some cases applications shall be accepted at separate desks reserved for that purpose only, while other places shall be admitted to the relevant public authorities or legal entities under a pre-established organisation and subject to strict compliance with all health and anti-epidemic measures taken. Information on the acceptance of identity card applications, the acceptance of a passport application and the issue of documents certifying events and facts relating to the issue of identity documents when submitting a written request for the provision of information shall be promoted through the media, including the Ministry of Interior's website, as well as by placing it in appropriate places. The administrative centers in the territory of several Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior in the respective administrative centers of the local government are built and operating desks for acceptance of applications for issuing and service of Bulgarian personal documents. Thank you for putting this question again, which has been in the focus of public attention for a long time. I assure you, for my part, that despite the large number of ID cards that expire in 2020 and 2021, the Ministry has developed and continues to carry out adequate organisational administrative actions to ensure the rapid and quality service of all citizens. The analysis of the periodic reports drawn up in recent months also requires the conclusion that in most district directorates citizens are served within established working hours, there are no difficulties and there is no need for the passage of floating or extended working hours, as well as the acceptance of applications on a day-off. In view of the foregoing, it can be summarised that the established organisation of the procedure for issuing and replacing personal documents is fully operational and at the service of the people. Increasing the level of administrative service for businesses and citizens, including the activities of issuing personal documents, are one of our priorities in the policies of the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u228	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Halacheva, you're entitled to a line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u229	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Minister, I understand and appreciate the facts you have presented in your reply, they are objective. I hope that the organization for the issuance of personal documents and the quality service that you are talking about will be assessed as well by the Bulgarian citizens. But there is a subjective, deeply personal problem, and that is precisely the relationship of Bulgarian citizens and their belongings, their national identity. Think about how the issuance and replacement of Bulgarian personal documents should strengthen and not violate the relationship of every Bulgarian citizen with the state because I think it is important.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u230	Thank you, Mrs. Halacheva. Would you like to use the back, Mr. Terziysky?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u231	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Halacheva, in the administrative service of the citizens in the units and for Bulgarian personal documents, and in the units of the KAT we have no retribution regarding the origin of the Bulgarian citizens. I assure you again that the employees of the units of Bulgarian identity documents are working in a very serious load, but still perform a quality service that we provide to the Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-09.u232	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We've run out of parliamentary control for the day. Several messages: On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev to a question from the National Representative Irena Anastasova; - the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova to two questions from the MPs Kristina Sidorova; and Zhelyo Boychev; - Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Christian Vigenin; - Minister of the Interior Hristo Terziyski, to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Jayhan Ibryamov; - the Minister of Finance Kiril Ananiev to a question from the National Representative Krum Zarkov; and to a question written by the MPs Lalo Kirilov, Krasimir Yankov, Valeri Zablyanov, Nikolai Ivanov, Dimitar Stoyanov and Georgi Andreev. For lack of respectable reasons, Members of the National Assembly shall postpone the responses to: - a question from the National Representative Georgi Turnovaliyski to the Minister of Finance Kiril Ananiev; - a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov to the Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov. The next National Assembly meeting under the approved Programme will be on 14 October 2020 at 9.00. I thank all the MPs who had the patience to attend parliamentary control. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
