ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Dear colleagues, before the beginning of the plenary session to congratulate our fellow Muslims on the occasion of the sacred holiday of Kurban Bayram. Let's wish them health, peace and prosperity! This bright holiday is an occasion to reflect on the values of kindness, compassion, tolerance and respect for the other and once again express our will to all Bulgarian citizens to live in understanding. Happy Thanksgiving! Mr. Tsonev, you too.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, today Muslims in Bulgaria and around the world celebrate one of the biggest Muslim holidays Kurban Bayram. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, I congratulate all Muslims in Bulgaria. Kurban Bayram is a feast of forgiveness, a feast of mercy, a celebration of faith strengthening.................. the mercy to the neighbor, the mercy to the person, the assistance, especially valuable in today's difficult and complex times. The forgiveness of today's Muslims ask forgiveness from their elders, from their parents, from their grandfathers, from their grandmothers, as we Christians ask forgiveness before the Great Post. On behalf of the parliamentary group I wish all Muslims in Bulgaria health in the family to be healthy themselves! I wish them success, I wish them really to be pillars of aid, peace, stability, as always in our common homeland the Republic of Bulgaria. Bless you! Happy Thanksgiving, dear friends! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u3	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Happy celebration once again by all MPs in the Forty-fourth National Assembly! Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the following additional points be included in the weekly Programme for the Work of the National Assembly: Selection of members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission outside the selection of Articles pursuant to § 41 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act. The procedure of choice is in accordance with rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 19 June 2020, and I propose that the point be second in today's Programme. First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Medical Institutions. Importers: Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs, 29 July 2020 The third point in today's Programme. A bill for ratification of the Agreement authorising the European Commission to propose to the participating Member States and to conclude, on their behalf, preliminary agreements on the purchase of vaccines with their producers in order to provide Member States with vaccines in the fight against the COVID pandemic-19. Importer: Council of Ministers, 30 July 2020 point four. Report of the Six Monthly Programme with the priorities of the Republic of Bulgaria. Themes and files during the Croatian Presidency of the Council of the European Union (January 1st 30 June 2020) Importer: the Council of Ministers, July 22, 2020, and the Six Monthly Programme with the priorities of the Republic of Bulgaria.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Importer: Council of Ministers, 22 July 2020 pursuant to art. 128 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly Mrs. Vasileva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u4	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I have a procedural proposal for you to put aside your proposed extraordinary items on the agenda. This request relates to the following motives: we will not support the latest of your proposed extraordinary items on the agenda: a report on the priority topics and files during the Croatian Presidency and the six-month programme for priority topics and files during the German Presidency. The reasons are related to the texts arising from art. 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and its Rules of Procedure adopted by us in July 2018, which suggest prior disclosure of the presence of Members of the European Parliament in the Chamber during the discussions and presentation by them of the views of the Parliamentary Groups of the European Parliament. We think the topics are important, and that is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u5	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vasileva. Go ahead, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! I am making a reverse proposal that the proposed points be voted on anbloc. The reason for this is that in our opinion now is the last chance for the National Assembly not to violate again its Constitution and its own Rules of Procedure. The Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly explicitly state that the discussion that we propose to implement today must be held at the beginning of each Presidency. The beginning of the German Presidency began on 1 July this year. Today is the last chance, I say again, that we do not violate the Constitution. 105, and the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. At the Conference of Presidents this week, on Wednesday morning, on behalf of our parliamentary group, I proposed this to happen. A commitment to hold talks was made to propose this item on the agenda. Yesterday you rejected it again, after which we submitted a new proposal signed to make this happen on today's agenda. Of course, the majority will decide, but it is high time for you to understand from here a message to Bulgarian citizens: the European Union is not the money promised by the jeeps and on Facebook from Brussels. The European Union are topics, files, goals of Bulgaria, activity reports and corresponding planning of activities for the next six months. What this National Assembly is doing with regard to Bulgarian politics in the European Union is unacceptable. You will bear your responsibility, but again, you have one last chance to do at least something within this session, which may be the last thing for this National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. I put to the vote the procedure that Mrs. Vasileva requested from the stands for a separate vote on the agenda I proposed. Vote 176 MPs: 114, against 59, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. We continue the vote with a point-by-point vote. I put to the vote the proposal for point two: Election of members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission outside the elected members pursuant to § 4 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act. Vote 173 MPs: for 172, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the proposal for item three in the programme: First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Medical Institutions. Importer: Daniela Daritkova. Vote 168 MPs: 166, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the proposal for item four: A bill for ratification of the Agreement by which the European Commission is authorised to propose to the participating Member States and to conclude, on their behalf, preliminary agreements on the purchase of vaccines with their producers in order to provide Member States with vaccines in the fight against the pandemic of COVID-19. Importer: Council of Ministers. Vote 166 MPs: 165, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the proposal for item 5a: Report of the Six Monthly Programme with the priorities of the Republic of Bulgaria "Topics and files" during the Croatian Presidency of the Council of the European Union, 1 January 30 June 2020. Importer: Council of Ministers, and the Six Monthly Programme with the priority of the Republic of Bulgaria topics and files during the German Presidency of the Council of the European Union, 1 July Vote 166 MPs: 59 against 91 abstentions 16. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, several announcements: On the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I inform the Members of the National Assembly that on 30 July 2020, Decree No 160 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria was received under art. 101 of the Constitution, by which the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Underground Treasures was adopted by the National Assembly on 22 July 2020. It is entrusted to the leading Energy Commission to report to the MPs the President's statement and the reasons for it. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, in implementation of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces, informs the National Assembly that he has authorised by his own orders: - the passage through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria and the landing on the territory of the country of non-military nature of a military transport plane with its crew of the members of the Air Force of Ukraine. The authorisation shall be valid for passage through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria from 1 to 6 August 2020, including (total of two fields); - the passage through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria of an airplane with its crew from the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Azerbaijan. The authorisation is valid for the period from 4 to 17 August 2020, for a total of two flights from Spain to Azerbaijan. The orders issued are within the competence of the Minister of Defence, concerning the assessment of the military parameters of the passage with a view to the defence of the country. On issues concerning export control and compliance with international plantation regimes mandatory for the Republic of Bulgaria, the country's airspace clearance should be granted to the State concerned following a positive opinion from the competent authorities in these areas, the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The notifications were received on 30 July 2020. No 003-09-53 and 54 are granted to the Defence Committee. The National Statistical Institute has received information about: - the economic situation in July 2020; - Indexes of domestic and international producer prices in industry, June 2020. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Colleagues, I'm gonna do a procedure. I propose that the legislative part continue until it is completed. Let us vote on this so that there is no later interruption in our legislative activity and immediately after that start parliamentary control without rest. We are voting for an extension of the time until the legislative part is completed. Vote 153 MPs: 132, against 5, abstention 16. The motion is accepted. Come in for a procedure, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, please, on the basis of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to put to the vote the deadline for proposals between the first and second votes on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Asylum and Refugees, No 002-01-27, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 July 2020 and adopted at the first vote on 29 July 2020, to be extended by another week.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u9	Please vote on Mrs. Alexandrova's procedure. Vote 148 MPs: for 139, there is no objection, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. Moving on to point one: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE LAW FOR THE MINISTERITY OF INTERNAL WORKS. Importers are Plamen Nunev and a group of MPs, 28 July 2020. Here you go, Mr. Nunev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, I am making a procedural proposal for admission to the Chamber of Ms. Rositsa Grudeva, Director of the Directorate of Legal Normality at the Ministry of the Interior, and Mrs. Boryana Tsvetkova, Director of the Directorate of Planning and Budget Management at the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u11	Please vote on the procedure so made. They voted 143 MPs: 136 against 1, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Mr. Nunev, please introduce us to the First Reading Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u12	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending the Act on the Ministry of Interior, No 054-01-78, submitted by the National Representative Plamen Nunev and a group of MPs on 28 July 2020. At its meeting held on 29 July 2020, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order examined and discussed the Draft Law amending the Act on the Ministry of Interior, No 054-01-78, submitted by the National Representative Plamen Nunev and a group of MPs on 28 July 2020. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Interior: Hristo Terziyski Minister of the Interior, Boryana Tsvetkova Director of the Directorate of Planning and Budget Management, Rositsa Grudeva Director of the Directorate of Legal Regulatory Activity, Bilyana Stoykova Chief Legal Advisor in the Department of Regional Affairs and EU Law. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the National Representative Krasimir Tsipov. In his exhibition, the importer noted that given the specific activity of the Ministry, employees of an abnormal working day regularly work on established working hours in working days. According to the current legislation, the work at work on working days does not constitute overtime and is therefore not compensated with remuneration. The Bill provides for another approach to be defined where any work carried out outside the established regular working time of up to 70 hours per three-month period and 280 hours per year is to be accounted for as overtime and compensated with remuneration. The amendment envisaged regulates that civil servants, outside those with reduced working hours and shifts, should be established on a daily basis taking into account working hours. In this way, for civil servants under the Ministry of Interior Act, compensation with additional paid annual leave up to 12 days of work over established working hours in working days will be removed. In addition, the compensation for work over established working hours with additional paid annual leave is a prerequisite for other overtime by employees who should ensure the activities of the Ministry. The adoption of these changes will also lead to an increase in the quality and motivation of the employees of the Ministry of Interior. The change in art. 192, para. 1, t. 2 is related to updating the maximum rates of awards to announce gratitude with a monetary reward for the employees of the Ministry of Interior, as they are defined by the entry into force of the repealed Act on the Ministry of Interior in 2006. In recent years, the budget of the Ministry of Interior has increased significantly in its part of staff costs and this circumstance creates the conditions for the adoption of such changes. Another argument in support of the proposed proposals is the changed security environment and the need to increase the police's capacity to carry out the main tasks related to the protection of citizens' rights and freedoms, the fight against crime, the protection of public order and fire safety and the protection of the population. The necessary financial resources for the implementation of the new legislation relating to the payment of the additional overtime remuneration amount to around 65 million. BGN 37,4 million for remuneration lv. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. BGN, and should be further provided under the budget of the Ministry of Interior according to the budget forecast for the following years. On the bill there are received positive opinions from the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation, the Ministry of Interior and the CNS. The discussion was attended by the MPs Krasimir Tsipov, Manoil Manev and Rosen Malinov. On the basis of the vote held, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee with 17 votes for the House of Interior, No 054-01-78, submitted by the National Representative Plamen Nunev and a group of MPs on 28 July 2020, proposed to the National Assembly on the basis of the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Nunev. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. Mr. Ivanov asked for the first word. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u14	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! I would say that we are in favour of what we are looking at today at first reading to codify the overtime of the employees at the Ministry of Interior. This is a topic that we have discussed over the years more than once, not twice, legislative changes have been introduced, but for various reasons.................................in my opinion have been rejected by the ruling majority. To date, it appears that there is a need for this thing to be adopted urgently. We all know why this need is because for one month the employees of the Ministry of Interior are here on the street, throughout the country to guard the status quo, to preserve this majority and this government of the state, but this is another matter. Apparently, the employees of the Ministry of Interior are currently under pressure, are in an emergency situation, in an emergency situation that requires paying for this overtime, which they are currently doing on the street in abnormal conditions, in heat, in pressure from the crowd that is protesting outside, and these people need to be compensated in some way. This thing we have talked about, BSP has been consistent in its policy regarding the codification of overtime of the employees of the Ministry of Interior. Here I can say that our group will support this bill because it is the right approach to put in law precisely the payment of overtime to the Ministry of Interior. Another question is why this issue has been postponed so far. Why was that thing thrown in the trash every time the question came up? Since colleagues and I have commented here that today there is a desire for this thing to be passed on to two readings, colleagues, from now on I declare from the stand that the opinion of the BSP parliamentary group is that such a thing we would support if, with an editorial amendment between first and second readings in § 5, the entry into force of the Law is recorded from the date of its publication. Not since 1 January 2021, because these people need compensation in cases of overtime today, now, immediately, because they are working in abnormal conditions because they are working under incredible pressure because they are fulfilling their duties in a casual environment. You've made estimates that next year's expenses will be 65 million. This thing I think is achievable, possible to date, as yesterday the Council of Ministers can distribute funds, and yesterday hundreds of millions, I think several tens of millions can be granted now and immediately from the date of the adoption of the Law in force. Colleagues, I'm really asking you to be reasonable. If you agree to this editorial amendment to enter into force from the date of the adoption of the Law, and these funds to be paid to the employees of the Ministry of Interior, BSP will not make proposals between first and second readings so that this thing can enter into force now and immediately. Otherwise, consider it an application that we will make our proposals in order to be able to bring this law into force as soon as possible. If it's possible for beer and wine from August 1st to reduce excise duty, I don't see why these people deserve... Here is the Minister of the Interior, I want to hear what his opinion is on this subject, because he is coming out of these people's midst. He worked with them on the field yesterday, he was with them during the peace of the protests that took place outside against the government and he knows what the situation is. Our request is sincere, we will support this law, and our entire parliamentary group, it will enter into force from the date of its promulgation in the Official Journal. The cost is not that great, but people deserve it. Thank you. Otherwise, I say that we will make a proposal between first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? I won't. Speaking, Mr. Tsypov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, the subject of overtime is an extremely important topic not only because of the changed security environment, but also because it has been discussed for several years as it concerns more than 13,000 police officers and fire safety and population protection authorities. During the preparation for the Bulgarian Presidency at the beginning of 2018, this issue was discussed as the State Budget Act for 2018 provided for significant cost increases in the part of the Ministry of Interior budget. In fact, the application of overtime has been regulated in the Ministry of Interior Act for more than 10 years and, in this case, these about 13,000 employees who will be interested in such a change will receive additional remuneration for overtime because they have put in such overtime on weekdays. At present, the regulation provides that they will be compensated by an additional paid annual leave of up to 12 days when they make such overtime on weekdays from Monday to Friday. However, there is also the legal opportunity to receive such additional remuneration for overtime when they have placed it on weekends and holidays. We believe that, in recent years, this significant increase in the budget of the Ministry of Interior in the part of the staff costs. The bill tabled by us envisioned it to enter into force from the new budget next year, because, honourable Members, the budgetary procedure has now started. These funds must be clearly foreseen in the forecast, in the draft budget for next year, which will be submitted by the Council of Ministers in autumn. We could discuss the proposal they made from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria and we could be absolutely sure that these funds will be foreseen because the Public Finance Act very clearly states that changes in the part of the staff costs are not possible within the budget year. We believe that this issue needs to be discussed. We believe that this issue is in the interest of these 13,000 employees of the Ministry of Interior. In fact, let me explain that we are talking about operatives, we are talking about investigative police officers, we are talking about management employees from a low, medium and high level. We are also talking about a small part of the specialized administration, and we believe that this issue must be resolved. And I call on the plenary to support it unanimously so that, following the budgetary procedure, we can reach a quick solution to this issue and thus oblige the Council of Ministers to provide the necessary additional funds in the budget of the Ministry of Interior for the next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Tzipov. A line? Mr. Stoinev, come in first.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u18	Thank you. Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Tzipov, I understand your desire to compensate these employees, but think about it, if the government does not resign, these people will work overtime! Then how will you compensate them with extra days and how can they, figuratively speaking, take advantage of these days when they are engaged in the protests? That is, by the end of the year, the government has not resigned and these people are committed to protests, they cannot de facto benefit from the current legislation. This clearly shows that you do not want to help these people. If you really want, as we of the BSP suggest, to raise the remuneration since the entry into force with this law, this is a really clean position. These people work overtime, let them get more reward. I don't see what the problem is. Yes, you're talking about a budget procedure. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, but we are witnessing and now we are seeing in the Council of Ministers starting to flood us with decrees, with new costs, with all kinds of expenses. One day priority is one thing, the second day priority is another. However, the employees of the Ministry of Interior are not a priority yet, and we are all looking at them to ensure the calmness of the state. That is, if you really want to help these people, I think that the proposal we are giving from BSP is the really clean position since the adoption of this bill for employees to receive their remuneration! With these days off, it can't happen if you're still in power!? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u19	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Second line, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u20	Thank you. Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Tzipov, in general the security system in Bulgaria, part of which is the Ministry of Interior, is systematically underfunded and this has been for years now, and you know it well. You said to oblige the government, following the budgetary procedure, to implement the Law. That is exactly what we want, only that we will oblige it to do it a little earlier, even a lot earlier,.... half a year earlier can do it. If the Law comes into force now, an update of the budget can be made, as you have done many times on many other issues, and to oblige the government to actually implement the Act with an update of the budget. This can happen now and immediately, there is no need to wait until January 2021. Funds are provided, funds are available in the budget at the present time, an update of the budget may become available. I can't change tax laws in the middle of the year. I'm referring to the VAT of luxury goods, because they're not the primary need for beer and so on, and can't update the budget in order to pay off these extremely necessary funds to people from the Ministry of Interior system to public officials?! You can do it. You just need the will to do it now and now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Third line, Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u22	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Mr. Tzipov, I think I made myself clear earlier in my speech that this law will be supported by us. The most important thing that should happen today is that this law will enter into force as soon as possible, but as soon as possible! Because otherwise, by rejecting it, you will contradict your Prime Minister himself, Mr. Boyko Borisov, who does not come here, who said that he will increase wages in the sector of Security by 30% in the social sphere. You yourselves know that in just a few days, there will be an update on the budget. What are you telling these people right now who are sitting outside and are in this heat, and you're driving them with the buses from how many districts you come here, protect us, but at the same time after 1 January we're here, we're not here, you're gonna take the money! We'll support it. Otherwise, you will force us to submit a proposal between first and second readings to want this law to come in sooner. Understand, we are giving you a hand today and it is precisely for the benefit of those employees who are currently doing really hard overtime...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u23	Colleagues, please, it's too loud!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u24	I will also ask the Minister to address this issue. Understand, honourable Members, our request is that we treat these people with due respect for their work, not looking for any political dividends beyond what they should receive. Colleague Stoinev was right if you continue and the protests against the government continue. These people and their vacations can't take. It is better to compensate them now, to receive these overtime wages and to be able to carry out their duties conscientiously so as not to come to conflict and not to escalate the tensions in the country. Everything is in your hands, so, Mr. Tzipov, please convince your group if you need to and take a break for consultations so that we can make the right decision here in a moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Tzipov, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Minister! Dear gentlemen, who made a remark to me, let me point out to you that it is good that there is consensus in this House to accept such a change, but let me also note that what you have said, gentlemen, is not the truth. Employees who are the target group for this change are employees who work on abnormal working hours and their main function is not to protect public order. I believe that such a discussion should be held, but given that you have very clearly stated that you will make proposals between the first and second votes regarding the entry into force of this bill, we must ultimately comply with your will and consider the draft of the normal procedure provided for in the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly. Yes, there is likely to be a change in the budget for this year, but it will happen not now, but after a while. The rules, however, regarding what should happen as a change in the part of the staff costs of each budget, the state budget, the government budget, the ministry budget, are quite clear and precise. An account should be taken of what is stated in the reasons.. how much additional funds will be needed must be calculated and recorded fully accurately. By accepting this change at the moment, we will certainly make a mistake and we will also deprive the possibility that the Law provides for compensation for overtime during the week by those employees who work in abnormal working hours. It can come to this that they can neither receive funds nor use the leave if we adopt this bill and enter into force immediately.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Tzipov. Any other speeches? Mr. Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u28	Thank you. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Thus, the proposed bill has no retroactive effect.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u29	Who said anything about retroactive action?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u30	He doesn't have the opposite effect. It will have action for the next fiscal year, so these stories that employees who are currently outside under the sun would be taking compensation if we now adopted this law.. do not rest on reality. We offer and offer our hand again because of these employees who are dignifiedly fulfilling their debt if there is agreement in the parliamentary group of GERB, it can be accepted on two readings today in the Chamber with one editorial amendment, which was said by colleague Ivanov here that the Law has been effective since the day of its promulgation. There's nothing illogical about this thing. Then, when the budgetary procedure is launched, the budgetary procedure and the update of the budget will bear in mind this change, it will have to bear in mind this change. Because the Law must be implemented, it will have entered into force, published in the Official Journal and so on. It is our proposal that these people, these decent employees, should receive the compensation due to them, in principle, are owed to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u31	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to take some consideration of the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I just want to make it clear that the change was necessary not that the employees are currently carrying out any unusual police action. That's what we've been doing since March 13th. This overtime, which we are referring to at the moment, has grown and it appears that the trend is increasing from our work to counter the consequences of the CoVID-19 pandemic. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] This problem is not from today, not from yesterday. This situation, which we propose to adopt from 1 January 2021 and with the funds being estimated, has also been agreed with all trade unions involved in the Social Partnership Council of all structures and structures of Fire Safety, the structures of the Criminal Police, the structures of the Economic Police, the structures of the investigating police officers and the structures of the administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u33	Thank you, dear Minister. Any other speeches, colleagues? Mrs. Yankova, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u34	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! You all know that at the beginning of your term of office, with one member of parliament who is no longer here, you have made a change in the law so that the Ministry of Interior's staff for overtime can be prevented. In my constituency, many conscious officers of the Ministry of Interior with their rights, which they have by law, despite pressure, have filed lawsuits. There was a suspension of the judicial procedure and then there was a consultation on overtime. It is not true that you do not know how much money, Mr. Tzipov, is necessary for this. The minister you replaced knew in detail the money was expected to be changed. Now the emergency situation with COVID, the protests, and not only that, the echo of all that is of the trade unions and the demand for the rights of the employees of the Ministry of Interior, impose this change and we will support it. But there is no problem with taking a break, consulting with the Minister of Finance and making this amendment, it has been made many times. That's why I insist, today and now, that we do this.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u35	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. - What's the line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u36	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Mrs. Yankova, I am convinced that everything you have said is true. I am convinced that neither the Unions of the Ministry of Interior or any of the employees of the Ministry of Interior will be against such an editorial amendment to put this law into effect from the date of its publication. Moreover, I am at least, according to my estimate, as is said, the cost required for a whole year is 65 million, for the remaining five months it is not more than 30 million. We see that these funds are currently being given for all sorts of things, for all kinds of expenses. What is the problem with us looking at these people really as people who perform their duties?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u37	That's not how your knee feels.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u38	No, you guys are doing it because your circumstances are pushing you, but we're not pushing you into this thing! [[GERB lines.]] We want to give you a hand with these people so that a normal dialogue can be held and they get what is due to them overtime. You don't even understand what we do and what kind of gesture we do with a good tone in the room and to each of you. So, Mrs. Yankova, I really understand these people who filed cases, and now is the only chance that these relationships will be regulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u39	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. There won't be a hole, Mrs. Yankova, or will there be a hole? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u40	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr Minister! Mr. Ivanov, you are right, even more so in the report which has been submitted, it was appropriate to have at least an impact assessment in its most general form. We do not have one, and I have spoken many times since I was willing to make a question, a debate in Parliament on these issues. Minister Marinov then said: "We are preparing a solution, we have an opportunity, we also have a financial resource. You have a financial resource and you declare that you have respect, colleagues, to the employees of the Ministry of Interior. So, Mr. Ivanov, my answer to you is: a question of political will is the employees of the Ministry of Interior do not deserve today's declaratory attitude: Yes, you are right and you have the right, but you are right in January! That is why we strongly insist and ask today that we support at second reading, that we immediately take a break, if necessary, that the second reading be after we examine the other bills, but that we vote then. Otherwise, colleague Ivanov, it is disrespectful to the employees of the Ministry of Interior, it is demagogy and coquetting with them.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. He has the floor, Mr. Radev. Here you go, Mr. Radev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues of the BSP, there were no such speeches in the Commission, you did not speak so zealously. Now all of a sudden, you're riding on the grievance and all of a sudden you're talking about the Ministry of Interior and all of a sudden you're talking about the employees. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u43	Please listen to each other.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u44	I'm going to explain which employees we're talking about because, listening to the microphones, people think it's the Ministry of Interior at all. This is not about the Ministry of Interior at all, my colleague Tzipov explained it to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u45	For everyone, for everyone...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u46	That's not true! It's about 13,000 people who are administration investigators. The minister listed them all, so I don't miss anyone. Only for them! When GERB came to power, three times increased the salaries of the Ministry of Interior by 10%. I'm sorry, but this overtime wasn't paid in your time either. You always fall into a state when GERB offers something and some solution, you start to overlay it and thus distort it and explain how correct your actions are. They're not right at the moment. We manage and have decided yes, we will do it by the rules, we will do it by the New Year, only for those who remain and who are not paid such work. Everyone else, as pathetic as you say them from here, who is sunbathing outside, right, and protect your power, but they're getting that money now, my colleagues! Say that! And we specify that there are some left, they are not many, but we want to do it for them too. GERB is doing this! So don't use political or generalize the entire police force. The police are currently receiving these funds. And that we've decided to be from New Year's Eve, we're just following the rules and that's how we've decided. There are other priorities. You're not talking about education here, you're not talking about economics, you're talking about the Ministry of Interior and you're talking populist talk about it. I'm sorry, but I don't understand it. If you wanted to talk professionally, we should have done it in the Commission. And here you throw something, talk about those who are sunbathing, people listen to you and start to get scared. There's no such thing! Thank you. [[Applause on the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u47	Thank you, Mr. Radev. A line or a statement? Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Radev, allow me a line. You don't do it, this money doesn't give it GERB! This money belongs to the people, it belongs to the Bulgarian citizens. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] You're not giving them away! Stop with this: I gave you, I made you. - You didn't do anything. This money is from the budget of the state and is from every Bulgarian citizen. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] And do not deceive both the police and all Bulgarian citizens that you are doing something. The only thing you have to do is the Prime Minister now goes to the Prime Minister and tells him that the MPs want his resignation. [[Arrival in GERB.]] That's what you can do. Everything else is dust in people's eyes. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u49	Second line, Mr. Tsipov, third line, Mr. Popov. And Mr. Ivanov wanted us to give an extraordinary fourth line, maybe in a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u50	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Radev, let us remind you that in 2013 when there were other protests, not only was the overtime not paid, but the new Act on the Ministry of Interior led to a deficit of 180 million. lv. in the budget of the Ministry of Interior, of which the shortage of staff costs was 120 million. So only the Bulgarian BSP could call on things to happen immediately, because then they had not made absolutely no estimates of what costs would be incurred with the adoption of the new Ministry of Interior Act. And one more thing, Mr. Radev. The new law and the total state number of the Ministry of Interior was reduced by more than 5,000 people. How to perform all functions and tasks provided by law? How to put overtime and how to pay, dear Mr. Radev?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u51	Thank you, dear Mr. Tzipov. Mrs. Yankova, for the third line please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u52	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr Minister! Mr. Radev, you know that even Minister Marinov had an inquiry to the prominent lawyer Mr. Mirchkov. Here we are talking about three types of work, about civil servants, outside those with reduced working hours and shifts, about the employees of the Ministry of Interior. There, in the motives, it is very clearly written and we have read and are in conscious political behavior. Yeah, we know that's not all they're gonna get. But this problem has been known for 2 years, even more. If we are to be honest, Minister Jovchev then made a change and with the vigorous denial I will say to the then President Tsvetanov we are in this hall. You know that! So consolidate yourselves, let us support these 13,000 people in a step to make this payment, and it is not a problem, we will support it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Here you go, Mr. Radev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u54	Yeah, we don't give it away, of course. You're very aware of that, but you're speculating again. Isn't that right, saying so in a nutshell, of course, those in power, they make the distribution. It's your money. There's no question about it. I don't understand why you had to say that! [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Isn't that how we talk? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And when you're here, and you're saying the exact same thing, and I think everyone knows what it's about. It's government policy. That's what I told you. That's what we've decided. That's how we do it. When ever, perhaps, you come to power, if you come, then you do it differently and we will criticize you! It's people's, of course! And the last thing Mrs. Dora Yankova challenged me to do. Yeah, that's not from yesterday, but they're not a lot of problems from yesterday. I won't tell you what you didn't do now. I will just remind you that when he was Minister Yovchev, he introduced these compensations with holidays. Fact! Here, we're straightening something up! Now the time has come, we have decided that we will now fix it and in this way we are telling you not by illegal means, not by any other. And I can tell you that I've listened to this. Whenever you're out of power, someone else has to pay the bill, but if we can give the money right away. Well, we're not giving them up right now! They, the money, it's not ours, it's common, and we're careful how we spend it. That's why we're proposing exactly when it's gonna happen. This is agreed with the Minister of Finance, with the budget that is yet to be changed, so we are doing the right thing. Is that what you're accusing us of?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u55	Thank you, Mr. Radev. Any other speeches? There is. Here you go, Mr. Malinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u56	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable Members! In a strange way, debates are taking place.. especially in recent speeches, with some backs in history, we will reach 9 September, the Liberation War, perhaps the creation of the state. This is not serious, it is not serious and it is also the legislative attitude itself. Honourable Members, a month ago perhaps................................................that there is a month in this room after a stormy debate......we adopted an amendment to the Ministry of Interior Act. A month ago! Then no one thought about these 13,000 people, no one thought that we had some money to give or some money to give, just a month ago no one thought about what date would be given or would not be given that money. Just a month ago! So, what legislative stability are we talking about in this National Assembly? One month after that, as the gentleman who spoke before me said: "We have decided and done!"
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u57	Why?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u58	Why? How can I explain it to you? If you don't understand it, it doesn't make any sense to explain it to you. [[Replys and applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The other thing is, what's the point at issue? For the first time you get, as this is our position for years, support and hand lodged one question to solve. Instead of saying thank you, together we all start doing something-what-you are, we start arguing about one thing - whether it is under budgetary procedure or not. Well, let's go back for the beer and the wine. What kind of budget procedure are they on? Or should I open the window of the jeep and say, "I'll give you 20 million!" The same one you advertise. Let's settle the matter quietly, quietly and peacefully, and these 13,000 people, I don't want to name them, perhaps as you would like, to solve this issue and once and for all to understand that when it comes to the security of the state, when it comes to the stability of the state system to one degree or another, we can lend a hand and work. Because, the reference to January 1st and then the budget procedure, excuse me, I'm going to go a little off, but it sounds like a line from a movie: "Daddy's going to buy me a bike, but another time!" We offer you the bike today. Let's sit down, solve it, shake hands and thank people for what they're doing for the public interest. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u59	Thank you, dear Mr. Malinov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u60	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, it was said here from the stands that this was the first time we had laid hands. That's not true. With regard to the Ministry of Interior Act, you correctly mentioned a time ago when the Ministry of Interior Act was being watched, then we made a proposal to update wages, remember, here was unanimously rejected by those same colleagues who are now proposing this thing, but to enter into force from 1 January 2021. And one more thing, in the Law itself, because we are all talking about 13,000, 12 thousand people, 13 thousand people, but here it is written: for the public officials in the Ministry of Interior outside of those under para. 2 and shift workers shall be established on a daily basis taking into account working time. How many employees do you think work shifts at the Ministry of Interior? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u61	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Second line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Malinov, for the back. Will there be? No. Okay, thank you. Any other speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote, fellow Members. I put to the first vote a bill amending the Act on the Ministry of Interior, No 054-01-78, submitted by Plamen Nunev and a group of MPs on 28 July 2020. They voted 137 MPs: for 137, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Mr. Nunev, you have a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u62	Madam President, honourable Members! My procedure is the deadline for proposals under the newly adopted bill between first and second readings to be three days.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u63	Thank you, dear Mr. Nunev. Reverse procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u64	Thank you, Madam President. We're making a counterproposal with the following motives. You know, when the National Assembly is on vacation, deadlines don't run anyway. Once this law enters into force according to the importer 2021, what is required to shorten the period of three days? We are making a counter-proposal that the deadline is 7 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u65	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. I will first put Mr. Nunev's proposal to the vote. They voted 133 MPs: 99, against 31, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Moving on to point two: SELECTION OF THE COMMISSION'S MEMBERS FOR ENERGY AND WATER REGULATION, OUT OF THE SELECTED MEMBERS UNDER § 41 OF THE TRANSITIONAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS OF THE COUNTERPARTY LAW AND COMPLIANCE OF THE ENERGY LAW. Before you begin, Mr. Nikolov, I will introduce you to the Rules of Election of President and Members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission by the National Assembly: "1." The sitting is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. The proposed candidates are present at the meeting by decision of the National Assembly. 2. The National Assembly shall hear the report of the Energy Committee. 3. Each candidate shall be represented by the applicant within two minutes. 4. Debate on the nominations under the Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly shall be held. 5. The National Assembly shall elect separately the Chair of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, two members with experience in the field of energy, one member with experience in the field of water supply and sewerage and one member with an economist. 6. The vote is evident through the computerized voting system. If there are several candidates for one position, the vote shall be carried out in alphabetical order on the applicant's own names, unless the National Assembly decides otherwise. 7. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. If several candidates for one position have received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly, the candidate who has received the highest number of votes for the House shall be elected. 8. Where none of the candidates for the position concerned receives the necessary votes, a re-vote shall take place, in which the two candidates who received the most votes for the position concerned shall take part. 9. If none of the candidates for the respective position receive the necessary votes in the second vote, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. 10. When one of the candidates refuses to participate in the election before voting on his candidacy by the National Assembly and he is the only candidate for office, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure for this position. 11. If there is no candidate for any of the posts, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure for this position. Here you are, Mr. Nikolov, to brief us on the Commission Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u66	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I make procedure for admission in the Chamber of the following persons: Mr. Valentin Terziyski, Mr. Vladko Vladimirov, Mr. Georgi Dobrev, Mr. Dimitar Kochkov, Mr. Kremen Georgiev and Mr. Lyubomir Denchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u67	I shall put to the vote the motion for admission to the Chamber. They voted 107 MPs: for 107 against and abstentions there is no. Please invite those admitted to the courtroom. Please continue with the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe concerning the hearing of candidates for Members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission At its regular meeting held on 21 July 2020, the Energy Commission held a hearing of the proposed candidates for members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission under Section IV of the Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for Chair and members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Energy Commission, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly, hereinafter referred to as the Rules of Procedure. The sitting was broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. At the beginning of the meeting, the Chairman of the Energy Commission Valentin Nikolov noted that the proposed candidates clearly from the submitted documents meet the requirements of the Energy Act for the posts for which they were proposed and should be allowed to be heard. A member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission with an internship in the field of the economy has been nominated by Mr. Lyubomir Drekov, but subsequently the applicant is motivated to refuse participation in the procedure. The candidates of Mr. Valentin Terziyski, Mr. Vladko Vladimirov, Mr. Georgi Dobrev, Mrs. Evgenia Haritonova and Mrs. Kremen Georgiev have been nominated for members of the KEWRC with internship in the field of energy. Mr. Valentin Terziyski was proposed by the political party GERB's parliamentary group. People's representative Valentin Nikolov presented his application for a member with an internship in the energy sector by stating the reasons for this: Mr. Terziyski is an electric engineer with a specialty of electric machinery and equipment and has many years of experience in the thermal energy system. He was the executive director of "Toplofication" Pleven "AD." One of the founders of the Association of Heat Foundations and its Head in the period 2008 - 2011 and since February 2019 is a member of the Supervisory Board of Sofia Topplofication. He was involved in the drafting of the legislation in the sector............................................................................................ National Representative Valeri Simeonov presented as an importer the nomination of Mr. Vladko Vladimirov as a member of the KEWRC with an internship in the field of energy. Mr. Vladimirov is a master of mining technology with years of experience in the field of energy. He has worked as Director of the Economics and Finance Department in the town of Radnevo, the town of Radnevo, as Director of the Economics and Finance at the town of Radnevo, the town of Radnevo, the commercial director in the town of Mini Bobov dol.EAD, the town of Bobov dol and as Head of the Executive Infrastructure Projects of FIDIC. Mr. Georgi Dobrev, proposed by the parliamentary group of political party GERB was presented by the MP Valentin Nikolov. Mr. Dobrev is a Master of Law from Veliko Tarnovo University. Between 2003 and 2005 he was a partner in a law firm and worked in the field of civil, commercial, administrative and bond law. Between 2005 and 2008 he was Senior Legal Consultant in Sofia Municipality, Studentski district. By 2011, he held management positions in the municipality and showed administrative and management potential. The Kozloduy NPP directs, organizes, co-ordinates and controls the activities of the Management Board. As of today he is a member of the Board of Directors of the NPP Kozloduy Novi..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Since April 2015 he has been the Director of the Directorate of Manufacturing and Administrative Activities in BEH EAD. Ms. Evgenia Haritonova, proposed by PG of PP GERB, was represented by the MP Valentin Nikolov. He noted that the applicant is by profession an electric engineer with a long experience in the field of energy. She has worked for 23 years at the Tehenergo EAD from expert to chief of management. In NEK EAD is the head of the project "Energy 1" financed by the World Bank. He is a member of the State Energy Regulatory Commission in the first term since its establishment, as well as in the period 2010 - 2012. From 2000 to 2010 he worked at the NEC. From 2012 to March 2013 he was Deputy Minister of Economy and Energy. He is currently a member of the KEWRC since April 2015. Mr. Kremen Georgiev, proposed by GG to PP Volya, was presented by the MP Plamen Hristov. He is a master's degree in physics and semiconductor technology in the city. St. Petersburg, Russia. He has many years of professional experience in the energy sector. He was Chairman of the Board of Directors of three thermofiction companies, the Board of Directors of three heatfiction companies, the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of three heatfiction companies, the Toplofication of Vratsa. Chairman of the Association of Heat Foundations from 2014, member of the Board of the Fund "Safety of the Electricity System" in 2015, in 2019 headed Sofia "Topplofication." For members of the KEWR with internship in the field of water supply and sewerage the application of Mr. Dimitar Kochkov from the PG of BSP was raised. Mr. Dimitar Kochkov was presented by the MP Tasco Ermenkov. Mr. Kochkov is a Master Engineer "Water and sewerage" and works in the water sector since 1991. He has been a consultant and designer and since 2002 Deputy Director of the Water and Canal Pleven. Founder and active member of the Bulgarian National Water Quality Association, Bulgarian Water Association, Chamber of Investment Design Engineers. National Representative in the 42nd National Assembly, Member of the Investment Design Commission. Member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission from April 2015. Member of the Association of European Water Regulators, based in the city. Milan since 2015, as a representative of the Republic of Bulgaria. Since 2017 he has been a member of the Association's Management Board and Vice President. The candidates of Mr. Lyubomir Denchev and Mr. Georgi Dobrev, who was proposed and presented as a member of the KEWRC with an internship in the field of energy, have been promoted for members of the KEWRC. Mr. Lyubomir Denchev, proposed by the PG of BSP and represented by the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev, is a Master of Economics. The candidate has a PhD and a long professional experience in the field of energy. He has taken senior management positions supposed executive director of Bulgargaz-EAD, Bulgargaz-St., Secretary of the Working Group on the Development of a Project for Energy Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria up to 2030. There are numerous specializations and publications in the sector of Natural gas. The candidates for members of the KEWRC presented to the Energy Committee their concepts of the Commission's activities. The concepts presented by the candidates mainly highlighted the following principles: balance between the interests of energy companies and customers; equality between individual market participants; stimulating the development of a competitive energy market; transparency; efficiency; stability and neutrality. The guidelines for developing the regulator's activities are: creating a liquid, transparent and integrated electricity market; energy transition to clean energy; security and diversification of natural gas supplies; introducing specific national objectives of the Discussions were held in the Energy Committee on proposals for candidates for members of the KEWRC. National Representative Tasco Ermenkov asked questions from civil organisations to Mr. Dimitar Kochkov, a candidate for a member in the field of water supply and sewerage, about checking the reports of the water operators and whether double funding in pricing has been taken into account in the light of the funding of water operators under a European programme. Mr. Dimitar Kochkov answered questions, saying that the accounts of water companies are currently being reviewed and adjustments will be made by September at the latest, and European funding is being monitored and reflected in making price decisions for water operators. According to Section IV, t. 6 of the Rules of Procedure, the Chairman of the Energy Commission Valentin Nikolov asked in a summary the questions submitted to the committee concerning amendments to the regulation of electricity and heat prices, respectively, for inclusion of the thermal power plant in the mix of regulated electricity market; for the accepted price of natural gas for July and the higher estimated price of natural gas as the fuel component forming the price of heat. The candidates answered questions in depth and comprehensively. They explained why the TPP is included in the energy mix, explained the difference between the two accepted natural gas prices for July 2020 and the estimated market price for the entire price period. They justified the amendments to the regulation and issued an opinion on upcoming regulatory amendments. Following the hearing, the Energy Commission found that the candidates met the requirements of the Energy Act for taking up the relevant position for which they were proposed. On the basis of the hearing, the Energy Committee proposes to the National Assembly to examine and vote in accordance with Section V of the Rules of Procedure the applications of Valentin Terziyski, Vladko Vladimirov, Georgi Dobrev, Evgenia Haritonova, Kremen Georgiev, Lyubomir Denchev and Dimitar Kochkov, for which it applies to the report a draft decision for each candidate for the respective position.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u69	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u70	Mr. Chairman, let me just say that two days ago Mrs. Eugenia Haritonova personally submitted a request for withdrawal from the race.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u71	Yeah. Her candidacy will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u72	Mr. Chairman, I would like to draw attention without reading the Rules, how the procedure will proceed. In the beginning, within two minutes, each candidate must be represented. The presentation of candidates is done in alphabetical order, starting with energyists, then will be candidates for the water sector.. he is one candidate, then economists will be. All will be presented alphabetically, as one candidate we are talking about Mr. Georgi Dobrev will compete in two directions: in energy and in economics, that is, he will be voted in both directions. After the presentation of the candidates, there are debates. The candidates shall be read after the deliberations in alphabetical order and voting shall be held for each candidate. This candidate has been selected, who received the most votes. If all candidates do not receive votes that are above 50%, then in this case a new vote shall be held for two of the candidates who have received the most votes. That is, as energyists are four candidates for two seats and do not get enough votes for one place, candidates with the most votes are taken and a new vote is held. If they do not raise the votes again for 50+1 percent, a new selection procedure shall be carried out in this case. In the beginning will be presented the candidates who will fight for two places that are in the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. These are: Mr. Valentin Terziyski, a candidate for Commissioner with an internship in the field of energy, Mr. Vladko Vladimirov, a candidate for Commissioner with an internship in the field of energy, Mr. Georgi Dobrev, a candidate for Commissioner with an internship in the field of energy. Since we're starting with Mr. Terziysky, I'm going to allow myself to imagine it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u73	Yes, please present the candidate.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u74	Mr. Valentin Terziyski has long experience in the field of energy, as a proven and respected expert. In 2008, she established the Association of Heat Foundations and was its first chairman. From 2009 until 2014 he was the Executive Director of the Department of Energy in Bulgaria and in the meantime he was Vice-President of the Bulgarian Branch Chamber of Energetics in Bulgaria. With its expertise, management and administrative potential participates in a number of projects, working groups and discussions concerning the development of the energy sector in Bulgaria so as to meet European and global standards. Some of the projects in which he participated are: 2004 - 2005. Research, design, construction and commissioning of a combined cycle of production of electricity and heat with installed capacity 2 times 3,12 megawatts of electric power and 2 times 3,5 megawatts in the Research, design, construction and commissioning of a combined cycle of electricity production in the "Topplofication" of Veliko Tarnovo. Anyone can get to know which projects he's been involved in, there's a lot of them. It fully complies with the requirements for this position as an energy and water regulation committee energy and energy engineer. All documents have been reviewed by the Commission and confirmed. The next person to be presented is Vladko Vladimirov, so I'm going to ask the Patriots to present him.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u75	Mr. Vladimirov will be represented by the United patriots, and then we will return to you again for Mr. Dobrev's candidacy. Okay, go ahead with Mr. Dobrev's candidacy.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Georgi Dobrev was born on 28 August 1977 in the town of Sliven, Master of Law from Veliko Tarnovo University. Between 2001 and 2005 he was a partner in a law firm where he completed activities related to civil, commercial, administrative and bond law as well as co-ordinated the activities of the associates in a law firm. In 2005, he was listed as an active lawyer in the Sliven Bar Association. Since 2008, he has been a Senior Legal Consultant in Sofia Municipality of the district of Studentski, where he organizes the activities in the Department of Law. Provides legal opinions on cases arising in order to coordinate the lawful and appropriate activity of the other departments in the municipality. Since 2011, it has held leadership positions in the municipality, where it demonstrates administratively managed potential related to various projects. In the NPP "Kozloduy" EAD since 2012 directs, organizes, coordinates and controls the operation of management, which is expressed in the following: generalising, planning and analyzing all necessary supplies, goods, services and construction related to the activities of NPP "Kozloduy" EAD. Perform marketing surveys to provide information and up-to-date prices for potential manufacturers and suppliers. Organize, conduct and award of all public procurement contracts with a contracting entity NPP "Kozloduy" EAD through procedures and public invitations in accordance with the Public Procurement Act. Organize the conclusion of contracts with designated contractors, procurement procedures carried out, as well as other contracts relating to the activity, management, administration and control of the execution of all contracts concluded. As of today he is a member of the Board of Directors of: NPP "Kozloduy Novi................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Since April 2015 and at present he has been Director of the Directorate of the Ministry of Industry and Administrative Affairs at the Board of Directors of the Bulgarian Energy Holding and has been responsible for, directing and controlling the preparation of reports, opinions and other documents related to the work of the Directorate in relation to the granting by the Board of Directors of the Bulgarian Energy Holding and the approval or coordination of the rights of sole owner of the capital of the subsidiaries of the BEH group. In view of also the documents which have been implemented and the Commission, which has been presented, considers that it is responsible for the position of both an energyist and an economist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u77	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. I'll ask Mr. Simeonov to present Mr. Vladimirov's candidacy.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u78	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! We offer to your attention the candidacy for Commissioner for Energy and Water Regulation of Mr. Vladko Genchov Vladimirov. Mr. Vladimirov graduated in 1986. The Higher Mining and Geological Institute in Sofia, specialty "Technology of Mining Production." From 1986 to 1997 he worked in different positions in the town of Bobov Dol. From 1997 to 1998 he was head of the department in the city of Sofia. From 1999 to 2002 he was Managing Director of the "Authoremont" JSC of Dupnitsa. From 2002 to 2003 he served as Commercial Director of From 2003 to 2009 he was Director of Relations with the Investors and Investors of Rouen Holding JSC Kyustendil. From 2010 to 2012 he was Director of Relations with the Investors....of Keramisgestvojs.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. From 2012 to 2015 he worked in "Mini Maritsa-east" JSC in the following positions: Director, Director, Economics and Finance and Consultant. From April 2015 until now he is a member of the specialized staff of the KEWRC. Visible from the foregoing, Mr. Vladimirov holds the necessary professional experience in the field of energy according to art. 12, para. 1, t. Paragraph 2 (a) and (b) of this Article shall apply mutatis mutandis from the date of entry into force of this Agreement and from the date of entry into force of this Agreement. 59 of the Energy Act. As a member of the Commission, Mr. Vladimirov fulfills the obligations conferred on him by the Law in compliance with the requirements for independence, impartiality, professionalism, integrity, consistency, publicity and transparency. The following motivates us to offer to your attention Mr. Vladko Genchov's candidacy as a member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u79	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. Who will present Mr. Georgiev's candidacy? Mr. Plamen Hristov has presented this application to the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u80	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The proposal of the MPs from the Parliamentary Group of Volya is proposed by Kremen Georgiev, a member of the Management Board of the Fund Security Power System. Our motives for this presentation for him are as follows: Mr. Kremen Georgiev began his career in the "Topplofication" "Vratsa," in 1995. During the years of his work and career he took up the posts: Head of Department "Inkaso"; Chief Engineer; Deputy Executive Director and member of the Board of Directors of the company. Appreciating its capabilities, its career development continues as the executive director of one of the major heating companies on the territory of our country. He was Chairman of the Board of Directors of three heat companies: "Topplofika" "Vratsa"; "Toplofika" "Toplofika" "Toplofika" city of Pleven; "Toplofika" city of Veliko Tarnovo. In support of this, in 2015 he was proposed and elected to be a member of the Management Board of the Fund. In 2019 he headed the largest heating companies in the Republic of Bulgaria. Mr. Georgiev has long-standing professional experience in the energy sector, which he has acquired throughout his career so far. He completed his higher education in St. Petersburg, Russia, in 1995, a major in Physics and the technology of semiconductors with an acquired master's degree. He has managed structural distribution enterprises in the sector............................................................................................. In 2013 he was elected Energetic of the Year by the Bulgarian Branch Chamber of Energetics. As Chairman of the Association of Heat Foundations in 2014, Georgiev participated in the development of a number of strategic changes in companies as well as numerous projects in the public and private sectors, contributing to the development of energy. With his professional growth over the years as an energy expert...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u81	Mr. Naydenov, you have exceeded the time, please with the presentation...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u82	...prove yourself to be an excellent professional and lead shot. The candidate I represent enjoys a good name and reputation in society and in the sector. He has proven with his work that he is not afraid to take responsibility and to bear one as a result of decisions made by him. By fulfilling his duties in the different positions he has held, Mr. Georgiev has proved his competence and motivation for work. In view of the foregoing, I believe that Mr. Georgiev has the necessary educational value, rich professional experience, good public reputation and moral qualities for taking up the position of a member of the KEWRC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u83	Thank you. To present Mr. Dimitar Kochkov's candidacy.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u84	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In connection with the forthcoming decision of the National Assembly for the election of four members of the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory on behalf of the parliamentary group "BSP for Bulgaria" (BSP for Bulgaria), I present the candidacy and propose as a member of the Commission for Energy and Water Regulation with an internship in the field of water supply and sewerage to be elected Mr. Dimitar Georgiev Kochkov. Mr. Kochkov has a completed education building engineer in water supply and sewerage with excellent success in the state exams. Then there is a professional qualification He is a member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission with a full mandate from 2015 to 2020. He has worked in the Water and Water Sector since 1991. He has long-standing activity as a consultant and designer in the field of drinking and waste water, as well as in large infrastructure projects with international participation. Since 2002 he has held the post: Deputy Manager of the Water and Water Department of Pleven. He has participated in the establishment of the Bulgarian National Water Quality Association and subsequently of the Bulgarian Water Association. He has been a member of the Chamber of Engineers in the investment design since its establishment in 2003 and until now with full design capacity in the section He has been a member of the Association of European Water Regulators, based in Milan since 2015 as a representative of the Republic of Bulgaria. Since 2017 he has been a member of the Management Board of the Association and its Vice President. He has participated in many international forums, conferences in and outside Europe concerning the regulation of water and waste activities. He has taken election posts such as: Municipal Councillor in 2011 2013 with participation in committees on: Ecology; Structure of the territory; Regional Development Council; Permanent Commission on Regional Policy and Local Self-government of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. He was a MP at the Forty-second National Assembly with participation in the Investment Design Commission, the Anti-Corruption Commission and a conflict of interest. He knows well the work of the water sector in the country, as well as the challenges related to the alignment of the Bulgarian regulatory framework in accordance with the European directives. We believe that, as a former member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, it has been successful and will contribute to the further implementation of reforms and strategies in the sector. This gives us reason and the conviction to offer and protect Mr. Dimitar Kochkov's candidacy for a member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission with an internship in the field of water supply and sewerage.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u85	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. And Mr. Denchev's candidacy. Mr. Denchev is represented by Mr. Zhelyo Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am pleased to present Mr. Lyubomir Denchev's candidacy. He has a higher economic education, then by the Institute of Higher Economics, Karl Marks. He then obtained a PhD in Economics at the Economic Institute of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. I mean, Mr. Denchev has a ten-year internship in the Bulgarian energy system. This is why he worked on the management, research, design, construction and operation of some of the largest energy projects of the Republic of Bulgaria. In his work biography he has positions from an ordinary specialist to executive director of some of the largest energy companies in the Republic of Bulgaria. At the same time, he was a member of the Managing Committee of International Projects, such as the Project He was co-ordinator of the Energy Strategy Project of the Republic of Bulgaria as an adviser to the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria. There are a series of publications on the country's energy policy issues in a number of authoritative publications. He is co-founder of the Bulgarian Natural Gas Association. All this gives us reason to believe that Mr. Denchev's candidacy would be very appropriate if he received support from the House and joined the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. One person who, in his previous professional work, has shown that he knows the problems of the energy and water sector and will be useful with this expertise and professionalism in the work of the Regulator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u87	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. With this we have completed the presentation of the candidates. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Hey, guys, any speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. I would like to remind you that for the district of energy we have four candidates there are two seats, in the district of VK the candidate is one, and in the district of economy we have two candidates. Mr. Nikolov, present the solutions projects in different areas in a consistent way. You present the draft decision, we vote it, then we move on to the next one.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just to draw attention to two places in the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, which are being released: Commissioner with internship in the field of energy. The following applications will be presented: Mr. Valentin Terziyski, Mr. Vladko Vladimirov, Mr. Georgi Dobrev and Mr. Kremen Georgiev, who are for these two seats. I will introduce you to the draft decisions in alphabetical order to elect members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission: The National Assembly on the grounds of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 11, para. Art. 2 and 3 in conjunction with art. 12, para. 1, t. 2 (a) (b) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) HAS DECIDED He elected Valentin Georgiev Terziyski as a member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u89	Thank you. Voting mode, please. They voted 139 MPs: for 3, against 1, abstention 135. Next, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u90	The next proposal: Project! DECISION on the election of a member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 11, para. Art. 2 and 3 in conjunction with art. 12, para. 1, t. 2 (a) (b) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) HAS DECIDED He elected Vladko Genchov Vladimirov as a member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u91	Voting mode, please. They voted 144 MPs: 107, against 3, abstention 34. Please present the next project.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u92	Project! DECISION on the election of a member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 11, para. Art. 2 and 3 in conjunction with art. 12, para. 1, t. 2 (a) (b) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) HAS DECIDED He elected Georgi Georgiev Dobrev as a member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u93	I shall put to the vote the draft decision presented to you. They voted 135 MPs: for 5, against 1, abstention 129. Present the next project, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Project! DECISION on the election of a member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 11, para. Art. 2 and 3 in conjunction with art. 12, para. 1, t. 2 (a) (b) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) HAS DECIDED He elected Kremen Vladimirov Georgiev as a member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u95	I shall put to the vote the draft decision presented to you. They voted 139 MPs: 15 against 1, abstention 123. Please present the next project.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u96	We have finished voting in the field of energy. As far as I can tell, there's a member chosen here.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u97	I'll announce the results at the end. We're in the process of voting. [[Declarations between President Emil Hristov and rapporteur Valentin Nikolov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u98	Mr. Chairman, if I may present, to clarify: The vote is evident through the computerised voting system. If there are several candidates for one position, the vote shall be carried out in alphabetical order on the applicant's own names, unless the National Assembly decides otherwise. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. If several candidates for one position have received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly, the candidate who has received the highest number of votes for the House shall be elected. Where none of the candidates for the position concerned receives the necessary votes, a re-vote shall take place, in which the two candidates who received the most votes for the position concerned shall take part. We are in this hypothesis for the second place. One is already occupied, the second place is not occupied. That's why the two candidates who didn't get more than half of the votes are competing, which is why we're voting again for both of them.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u99	I get it. You want us to end up with a field of energy.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u100	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u101	I had a different intention. [[Radio.]] This is not a violation of the rules. [[Noise in the room.]] We will put to the vote the two candidates with the most votes: Mr. Kremen Georgiev with 15 votes and Mr. Georgi Dobrev with 5 votes. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] By the order in which they have received the most votes, the two will be put to the vote. I put to the vote Mr. Kremen Georgiev's candidacy. They voted 134 MPs: for 16, they didn't mind, abstention 118. Now I'm voting on Mr. Georgi Dobrev's candidacy. They voted 146 MPs: for 4, they won't mind, they abstentioned 142. And in this case, Mr. Nikolov, we have no chosen...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u102	A chosen candidate. In this case, Mr. President, just to clarify to the Members of the National Assembly, the seat is not taken. After a next meeting, we will resume the selection procedure in this area for proposals, i.e. a new procedure will take place, as well as a new procedure for the election of the President of the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u103	This is in accordance with t. Nine of the rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u104	That's right. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are now moving on to the selection of a candidate for Commissioner with an internship in the water sector. We have only one candidate, so allow me to read the solution: Project! DECISION on the election of a member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 11, para. Art. 2 and 3 in conjunction with art. 12, para. 1, t. 2 (b) of the Energy Act HAS DECIDED He elected Dimitar Georgiev Kochkov as a member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u105	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the draft decision presented to you. 100 MPs voted: 99, none, abstention 1. The next draft for a solution.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The next performance is for a candidate commissioner with an internship in the field of economics. We are talking about a place that has been released in the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. We have two candidates - Mr. Georgi Dobrev and Mr. Lyubomir Denchev. In alphabetical order I read the draft decision for Mr. Georgi Dobrev: Project! DECISION on the election of a member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 11, para. Art. 2 and 3 in conjunction with art. 12, para. 1, t. 2 (d) of the Energy Act HAS DECIDED He elected Georgi Georgiev Dobrev as a member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u107	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the draft decision presented to you. Vote 160 MPs: 108, against 3, abstention 49.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u108	Negative vote!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u109	You have the floor for a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u110	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I voted negatively not because I have something against Mr. Dobrev and not because he is a direct competitor of our candidate for the position of Commissioner in the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. I voted against it as an expression of my attitude towards the whole procedure, which started viciously with a change of the rules at the last moment before the vote for President. We have come to the point that we have failed because of the refusal of the only candidate, the election of the President, now, we are also failing to choose the full composition of the Commission by choosing only one of the two possible members in the area of energy. I do not think that this is the good way in which members of a committee can be chosen, which is of great public importance, on whose decisions both economic and social problems depend. I very much hope that this will not happen in other committees, which we will choose, that this will not become a style of governance, because this shows, if not inability or inability to create problems and solve these problems, at least raises doubts as to whether, in what way and who decides them, whether in the National Assembly or elsewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u111	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. We continue with the next draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u112	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Project! DECISION on the election of a member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 11, para. Art. 2 and 3 in conjunction with art. 12, para. 1, t. 2 (d) of the Energy Act HAS DECIDED He elected Lyubomir Andreev Denchev as a member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u113	Thank you. I shall put the submitted draft decision to the vote. Vote 164 MPs: 65 against 1, abstention 98.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u114	There's an oath next. Gentlemen Vladko Vladimirov, Dimitar Kochkov and Georgi Dobrev were elected. Please come in for an oath. Colleagues, please stand up. Welcome to the stands. [[Everyone gets up.]] Repeat after me.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u115	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u116	Congratulations! Let's move on, guys. The next item is: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR LOCAL REPRESENTATIONS. Importer: Daniela Daritkova and group of MPs, 29 July 2020 Here you are, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u117	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Medical Institutions, No 054-01-80, submitted by Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs on 29 July 2020. At its extraordinary meeting on 30 July 2020, the Committee on Health examined and discussed a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Medical Institutions, No 054-01-80, submitted by Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs on 29 July 2020. The meeting was attended by the Minister of Health Professor Dr. Kostadin Angelov and the Deputy Minister of Health Mrs. Zheny Nacheva. The bill and the reasons for it were presented by Dr. Daniela Daritkova, who informed the MPs that the current legislative initiative responds to the need for financial support from the budget of the Ministry of Health of Hospital Services in the country to ensure the needs of Bulgarian citizens for diagnosis and treatment of epidemic spread of contagious disease. The proposal is the result of the found in recent months of a global pandemic of COVID-19, needing financial support from the state budget of the efforts of hospital institutions in the country to meet the needs of Bulgarian citizens for diagnosis and treatment of this contagious disease. Based on the practical experience gained so far, it has been found that the creation of operating conditions only during the course of epidemic spread of contagious disease often leads to additional challenges and difficulties due to the intimeliness of the actions taken. In order to address the danger of difficulties in the future epidemic spread of contagious disease, as well as in increasing the spread of COVID-19, it was necessary to conclude the need for State support at the last level of the hospital system. Namely, they concentrate an extremely high intensity load from a financial and organisational point of view in the provision of diagnostic and treatment activities to patients with COVID-19 and in parallel to that of patients without this contagious disease, but with other infectious diseases and/or other diseases. The proposed regulatory changes aim at creating a legal option for subsidizing state and municipal hospital and hospital care facilities with state and/or municipal participation in capital to maintain the readiness of clinics and wards of infectious diseases to provide medical care for the epidemic spread of contagious disease under art. 61, para. 1 or 3 of the Health Act, thereby ensuring that the majority of hospitals in the country are constantly prepared to take over the diagnosis and treatment of this disease. It is also proposed that all other hospital care facilities may also be subsidised to maintain the readiness of clinics and wards of infectious diseases to provide medical care for the epidemic spread of contagious disease under art. 61, para. 1 or 3 of the Health Act, providing for subsidisation to take place only during the period of declared emergency or of declared exceptional epidemic situation. The proposal stems from the fact that the period of declared emergency or of declared exceptional epidemic situation due to the epidemic spread of contagious disease requires the greatest efforts to control the disease and to protect the lives and health of citizens. The proposed amendments and additions will not lead to an impact on the state budget, as according to the provision of art. 106a, para. 6 of the Law on Medical Institutions the subsidization of hospital care establishments is carried out within the framework of the funds for these activities under the budget of the Ministry of Health for the relevant calendar year. Dr. Daritkova explained that the expected results of the implementation of the proposed regulations are related to ensuring the readiness of hospital care institutions to provide timely medical care for the epidemic spread of infectious diseases in the country and ensuring timely protection of the health of the citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria. The Minister of Health Dr. Kostadin Angelov expressed support for the proposed bill and stressed that this will ensure accessible and timely medical care of the population in the conditions of epidemic spread of contagious disease. In the course of the discussion, the MPs raised specific questions regarding the texts of some of the proposed provisions, uniting around the principle opinion that the regulatory changes in question are extremely timely and should be adopted within possible time limits. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: the Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Medical Institutions, No 054-01-80, submitted by Daniela Daritkova and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 29 July 2020, on the basis of the discussion and the vote held on the following results: the draft amendment and supplement to the Law on Medical Institutions, No 054-01-80, submitted by Daniela Daritkova and the group of Members of Parliament on 29 July 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u118	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. Statements, coworkers? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Medical Institutions, No 054-01-80, submitted by Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs on 29 July 2020. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Procedure, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u119	Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure and Procedure of the National Assembly, I am making a procedural proposal that the bill which has just been adopted in the first vote should also be subject to a second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u120	Please vote on the procedure so made. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The motion is accepted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u121	The Law on Medical Institutions is amended and supplemented by the Law on Medical Institutions. ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 106a The following amendments 1. In para. 4 the words "s 3' are replaced by "s 3' and "s 5'. 2. The creation of para. 5a: (5a) Outside the cases under para. 1-5 Ministry of Health may subsidize: 1. State municipal hospitals for hospital care and hospital care institutions in state and/or municipal participation in the capital to maintain the readiness of clinics and wards of infectious diseases for the provision of medical assistance in the epidemic spread of infectious diseases under art. 61, para. 1 or 3 of the Health Act; 2. Hospital care facilities other than those referred to in paragraph 2. 1 to maintain the readiness of clinics and wards of infectious diseases for medical care during the period of declared emergency because of the epidemic spread of infectious diseases under art. 61, para. 1 or 3 of the Health Act or of declared exceptional epidemic situation due to epidemic spread of contagious disease under art. 61, para. 1 of the Health Act. 3. In para. 6 the figure "six' is replaced by "six'. 'Concluding provisions'. ..................................................... The Minister of Health shall comply with the requirements of this Act, the regulation under art. 106a, para. 6 within 14 days of the entry into force of this law. § 3. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u122	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the name of the Law, § 1, the name "Concluding provisions', § 2 and § 3. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the last item of today's agenda: The Agreement, with which the European COMMISSION is empowered to authorise the participating Member States and to include, by that name, pre-financing agreements for the benefit of Vaccines with their producers with a purpose for the Member States to be awarded to Vaccines in the Covid-19 fight against Pandamine, No 002-02-12, introduced by the MINISTER'S COUNCIL on 30 July 2020. The report will introduce Mrs Daritkova to us again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u123	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement, by which the European Commission is authorised to propose to the participating Member States and to conclude, on their behalf, preliminary agreements on the purchase of vaccines (Advance Purchase Agreement) with their producers in order to provide Member States with vaccines in the fight against the pandemic of COVID-19, No 002-02-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 July 2020. At its extraordinary meeting held on 30 July 2020, the Health Commission examined and discussed a Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement authorising the European Commission to propose to the participating Member States and to conclude, on their behalf, preliminary agreements on the purchase of vaccines (Advance Purchase Agreement) with their producers in order to provide Member States with vaccines to combat the pandemic of COVID-19, No 002-02-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 July 2020. The meeting was attended by the Minister of Health Prof. Kostadin Angelov and the Deputy Minister Mrs. Zheny Nacheva. The Framework Agreement shall be subject to ratification by the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. The ratification bill was presented by the Minister of Health. This Agreement is the basis on which the European Commission is authorised to conclude, on behalf of the participating Member States, preliminary purchase agreements with vaccine producers, the aim of which is to supply vaccines to combat the CoVID-19 pandemic at the level of the European Union. The participating Member States will acquire doses of vaccines from producers on the basis of preliminary purchase and sale agreements, unless otherwise agreed. Therefore, all relevant vaccination policies remain at the discretion of the participating Member States. Pursuant to this Agreement, preliminary purchase agreements at EU level (Advance Purchase Agreement) will be concluded with vaccine manufacturers where necessary to ensure that applicants have access to the vaccine when they are successful. The financing of advance payments will be under the Emergency Aid Instrument (ESI) until the financial resources are exhausted. The inclusion of the Republic of Bulgaria in the Agreement is not related to pre-financial commitments. The decision to participate in a specific procedure shall be taken by the national authorities on its own in any case. An opportunity has been envisaged to grant the right to a participating Member State which does not agree with the conclusion of preliminary purchase and sale agreements containing an obligation to acquire doses of vaccine or its conditions, to withdraw it by express notification to the Commission within five working days after the Commission has notified its intention to conclude Advance Purchase Agreement. By joining the Agreement, the participating Member States confirm their participation in the procedure and agree not to start their own procedures for the prior purchase of this vaccine with the same producers. The accession of the Republic of Bulgaria would ensure better access to the necessary vaccines in conditions of shortage. In the last flu epidemic in 2009 our country was placed in an uneven position in 2009 for access to antivirals and inability to provide the necessary quantities of medicines due to limited production capacity worldwide, as well as because of the existence of long-term agreements of some of the producers with Member States and imposed bans on sale before meeting the local market. The MP, Professor Georgi Mihailov, expressed his opinion, making reservations about the signing of this Agreement and raised a question to the Minister of Health what is the need for his prior signature. Minister Angelov pointed out that all Member States will participate in the negotiation of vaccines and that this ensures our country's access to a vaccine when approved and placed on the market. In the presence of a ready-made vaccine Bulgaria will receive 2 million. the number of it that it declares with the signing of the Agreement. Following a 19-vote discussion, the Health Committee, without prejudice to and abstentions, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Draft for ratification of the Agreement, by which the European Commission is empowered to propose to the participating Member States and to conclude, on their behalf, preliminary agreements on the purchase of vaccines (Advance Purchase Agreement) with their producers in order to provide Member States with vaccines in the fight against the pandemic of COVID-19, No 002-02-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 July 2020, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 July 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u124	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. Statements? I can't see. I am putting to the first vote the draft ratification bill. I will not read the title again. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Procedure, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u125	My procedure is based on art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall be reviewed and put to the second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u126	Please, voting mode. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u127	THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Agreement authorising the European Commission to propose to the participating Member States and to conclude, on their behalf, preliminary arrangements for the purchase of vaccines (Advance Purchase Agreement) with their producers in order to provide Member States with vaccines to combat the pandemic of COVID-19 A single member. Ratification of the Agreement authorising the European Commission to propose to the participating Member States and to conclude, on their behalf, preliminary agreements on the purchase of vaccines (Advance Purchase Agreement) with their producers in order to provide Member States with vaccines in the fight against the pandemic of COVID-19, the letter of accession of the Republic of Bulgaria to which it was signed on 23 July 2020. Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 84, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure I am making the following amendment proposal because of a technical error made in the text of the importer. In Article, only the words "the letter of accession of the Republic of Bulgaria to which it was signed on 23 July 2020' shall be replaced by "the letter of accession of the Republic of Bulgaria of 23 July 2020'.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. I put the editorial amendment to the vote first. They voted 98 MPs: 98, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. I am now voting on the name of the Law and the article alone with the newly voted editorial amendment. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u129	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! I think it is an extremely good sign that the last vote in this Chamber should be absolutely unanimous, consensual and truly in the interests of the health and life of Bulgarian citizens. I wish in the new Chamber to achieve the same maximum consensus, because this will increase the authority of the National Assembly. Thank you all for your support. [[Applause from all parliamentary groups.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u130	Thanks, too, guys! Mr. Adamov, please come in for a statement. Then by the Political Party "VOLIA" "Bulgarian Rhodolyptics."
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u131	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! On the occasion of the sacred holiday for the Muslims Kurban Bayram on behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB I would like to congratulate all Muslims in heart! Traditionally, Kurban Bayram gathers relatives, relatives and neighbors at one table to ask for forgiveness from each other. Younger ones pay their respects to adults, setting an example to their children for mutual understanding, humility, mercy, and faith in good. This holiday is an occasion to reconcile, to remind ourselves that the way to overcome future challenges is common and goes through our mutual tolerance and respect. I wish everyone health, prosperity and success! Happy Thanksgiving! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u132	Thank you, dear Mr. Adamov. Mrs. Georgieva, please come in for a statement on behalf of a group. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, please take your seats or leave the room so there's order.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u133	Madam President, honourable Members! Every time I listen to the declarations and promises of my colleagues in this tribune, I keep wondering how it doesn't get tired of using the same political templates for years. There's nothing out of them. There are loud phrases spoken, but then it doesn't work. You don't do anything for the people. In words you are strong, in deeds........ the exact opposite. At the end of this unusual parliamentary season, first of all, I would like to thank the whole Bulgarian people for their patience and efforts to get through the health crisis together. The people are doing it because of themselves, not politicians, despite politicians. The last few months have repeatedly shown that we at WALK are thinking a few steps ahead. We warned you about a lot of things. We first alerted the CIVID to the danger, but you then, in February, grinning that....................................................................................... We insisted in early March on an urgent anti-crisis programme and economic headquarters. That's the kind of program that's only been made now. At such a rate of work it is clear that the results will be late and not as good as people expect. Volya is now campaigning for free medicines for children and students up to fourth grade and for pensioners over 65 years of age. We're also predicting a 50% reduction in meds for students from fifth to eighth grade. We've been among the people for a month now, and we've got over 130,000 signatures in support of these ideas. At the same time, none of you here in Parliament, not a single politician outside the National Assembly expressed a position on this so necessary anti-crisis measure. It seems to take months to get back to our proposal. In this sense, Volya's message to parliament remains unchanged: we want a pace, a faster response and more timely solutions. Summer will slip away quickly, there will be heavy autumn and winter. Every Bulgarian expects that the state will help him through this crisis. Businesses expect pragmatic solutions so that companies do not continue to fail and that valuable employees are not fired. These are the priorities for the coming months. It is not important which politician will survive in his post, but how the people will survive these trials. As long as there are parties claiming power that are stared at only in their internal battles, there will also be discontent. Because people send you here not to fix your party situation, not to say the personal situation, but to work for them daily and with concrete results, as we work at WOLF. As long as there are Bulgarian citizens who are struggling, who count their pennies for bread and medicine, while young people leave the country, no politician should be satisfied with his work, let alone boast of any fictional results, because nothing else is more important than the health, income and security of our people. We of the will will continue to remind you of this and to insist on working and timely measures. From the first day of this Parliament, we are calling for unity. If it were then about the political culture of the first men in the country, then we are now seeing an escalation of selfishness. How many times of this tribune have we repeated that politicians should be guided by the agenda of society, not vice versa. Self-love is not a good teacher because what power does a personal victory give you, a personal political appreciation, if it is based on hatred and aggression between your countrymen, and not a won battle with cartels and corruption? That is why we were left alone on the track, where our leader Veselin Mareshki and the Volya party fought with the real enemies for the standard of living of the Bulgarians, where the so-called big men are not there. [[Heckling]] The free medicines that we insist on is obviously a small topic for you, even though this for some is more than half a month's income, which may remain in a household, so I say: Bulgaria does not need word leaders, but the action. Everyone decides how they want to be remembered in politics.. whether as an instigator of civil war hidden behind the columns of the guarded buildings or as a politician who contributed in the pocket of the Bulgarian to remain more money. Fighting robbery is not just a slogan to try to embezzle, to fight robbery and corruption is an act and the whole of Bulgaria knows who led this fight with real measures. There are a few months left until the end of this term and let us not waste them in unnecessary interparty battles, in empty speaking and empty promises. We call on you to unite and reason in the name of Bulgaria and the Bulgarian people. Whether you will hear us this time, I remain on your conscience and responsibility. I wish you health and hope that autumn in this House there is a spirit of unity in the name of the better life of every Bulgarian citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u134	Thank you, dear Mrs. Georgieva. Moving on to: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions concerning the period from 24 to 30 July 2020: A question has been received from the MP Christian Vigenin to Ekaterina Zaharieva, Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs, concerning Bulgaria's position on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Answers should be made in the plenary sitting on 11 September 2020. Written answers from: - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva on a question from the National Representative Elena Pesheva; - Minister of Environment and Lead Emil Dimitrov on a question from the National Representative Elena Pesheva; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on a question from the National Representative Georgi Andreev; - Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov on a question from the National Representative Nadia Klisurska; - Minister of Environment and Lead Emil Dimitrov on a question from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Stoilov; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov to a question from the MPs Georgi Stoilov, Dimitar Danchev and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov on a question from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov. First will be the Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov to ask the MPs Dora Yankova, Desislav Taskov and Kristina Sidorova about the government's policy to reduce the duties of state and municipal hospitals. Mrs. Yankova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u135	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Minister! Our question is dated July 8th. It was assigned to Minister Ananiev. Naturally, you, as Minister, will accept the answer and you may be in a favourable situation, as it concerns funds, liabilities, the current Minister has become Minister of Finance, so our question is about policy, government policy to reduce the obligations of state and municipal hospitals. One reference from November 2012, in response then to Minister Ananiev to the members of the BSP parliament, who are members of the Health Commission, is shown how the duties for municipal hospitals, multi-profile and university hospitals are available, which shows one sustainability and one non-depreciation of obligations, especially in delays. And there are also noted obligations related to loans and other obligations, which means that within the three governments of Borisov we have serious obligations and deadlines for municipal, state and university hospitals. And since this is still a policy that has been developed in the years, we are interested in: what is the amount of duties of public and municipal hospitals. And in the end, even though it is in the final government.. the third government of Borisov, what policy has been done so far and what policy do you intend to do in the remaining time for their reduction? All of this tribune states that we want a health model with no hospital obligations. I can also note that your first press conference was strong, with regard to hospitals, in support of hospitals and workers. God forbid you're the minister who can make a difference. Moreover, you are a minister who comes from the real management of hospitals, to a university hospital, so your message to the health sector and to the management of hospitals is extremely important.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Mr. Angelov, come in. Five minutes for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u137	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Yankova, Mrs. Sidorova and Dr. Taskov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! One of the main priorities of the Ministry of Health is taking urgent measures to stabilise the financial situation of hospital care institutions by achieving better financial management and improving control in the spending of public health funds. For this purpose, since the beginning of 2018, the development and introduction of standards for financial management of hospitals has started and standards for public hospitals have been introduced in May 2018. Following the adoption of Ordinance No 5 of 2019 on the validation of standards for financial activity applied by state and municipal hospital and complex oncology centres, the Ministry of Health has officially started collecting information about the obligations of all state and municipal hospitals. According to the data for the first six months of 2020, the total liabilities of state hospitals amounted to 529 million. 677 thousand. BGN, of which 129 million are overdue. 892 thousand. lv. The total liabilities of medical establishments with prevailing municipal capital ownership amounted to 149 million. 917 thousand. BGN, of which the overdue amount is 32 million. 328 thousand. lv. It should be stressed that the COVID-19 pandemic has put medical institutions at serious challenges, including financial ones. The need to create conditions for isolation and treatment of patients with coronavirus and the anti-epidemic measures taken to control the epidemic since the onset of the emergency have postponed the treatment of a number of chronic and other diseases that did not require urgency. This, in turn, made it difficult for hospitals to carry out the planned volume of clinical activities. The reported volume of activities paid by the NHIF by hospitals in the first half of 2020 decreased by nearly 16 percent compared to the same period of 2019. In recent months, the government's efforts, respectively the Ministry of Health, have been focused mainly on actions supporting the hospital network to address the emerging epidemic situation, including funding mechanisms. Conditions have been established for financial support to hospitals for work under emergency conditions by means of an annex to the National Framework Treaty 2020. Payment of the approved methodology for work under adverse conditions is carried out for the months during which anti-epidemic measures have been put in place on the territory of the country by order of the Minister of Health. The National Framework Treaty clearly describes the rules under which medical institutions are financed and does not provide for the funds to be recovered from medical establishments or intercepted from subsequent payments. The hospital sector will also be targeted at a significant amount of additional funds from 1 August 2020, with the budget of the Ministry of Health increasing the funds under Ordinance No 3 of 2019 for medical activities outside the scope of compulsory health insurance, for which the Ministry of Health subsidises medical institutions and for the criteria and procedures for subsidising medical establishments. Some of the funds will be for hospitals that maintain structures that treat patients with infectious diseases, including coronavirus, as well as for hospitals in remote and difficult-to-reach areas, which are mainly municipal. The prices of the clinical pathways on average by 10% are expected to be increased from 1 August, which will have an impact on the revenues, and will reflect on the obligations of the state and municipal hospitals. Given the exceptional epidemic situation and the upcoming increases in both the prices of clinical pathways and the payment by the Ministry of Health for activities outside compulsory health insurance, more substantial analyses and conclusions on the state of the duties of state and municipal hospitals can be made after the nine-month report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u138	Thank you, Mr. Secretary, you've been precise for a second. Two supplementary questions you are entitled to, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u139	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We have heard a well prepared and presented an answer to our question. However, what we did not hear behind the numbers and somehow to say it, the fragmented measures, is the overall policy that you will take and will carry out the next six months on the future of municipal and state hospitals. Because all that you have told us has led us to believe that for the moment the municipal hospitals will get a breath of air, will perhaps reduce their duties a little bit, will receive some 19 million of the 50 million demanded years ago, but this will not solve their cardinal problem of stopping them from collecting obligations and how the state will actually make its overall policy on municipal healthcare. It is very clear to us that municipal hospitals do not have the economic effect they should have, but they do have the enormous social effect, being the only access to health for more than two million people. In this regard, my questions to you are: will you have the management and political will to change, to launch the necessary reforms in state and municipal health? Until recently, you were the director of a major university hospital, you are well aware of the difficulties facing hospitals in Bulgaria: do you think there are insurmountable obstacles that are causing so much responsibility in both municipal and state health, and how will you overcome these obstacles?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u140	Thank you, Mrs. Sidorova. Mr. Minister, you have three minutes to answer the supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u141	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Sidorova, regarding the future of municipal and state hospitals and the overall policy and what we will do about the reform of state and municipal hospitals in the field of health I said yesterday. In the context of a coronavirus, which is unclear about what trials we will face in the remaining months by the end of the year, it is very difficult to launch any changes, especially in the healthcare system, which, as you know, is extremely conservative as a system. All those changes that, if launched against the backdrop of a world pandemic of a coronavirus, would create a danger of lack of organization or disruption of current subtle relations between us as medical institutions, structures in the health system that have been synchronized during these months so that we can be adequate to the pressure that has eventually increased. Regarding municipal hospitals, what I can tell you is that yesterday at 3:00 p.m. I held a meeting with the National Association of Municipalities, the Board of Directors and the Chairman of the Committee on Health at the National Association. Together with them, we came to a consensus that the 19 million. BGN, which by the end of the year will be allocated to municipal hospitals, the algorithm on which this will be done will be a consensus solution that they will propose, as they best know as owners of the capital of these medical institutions where there are the biggest problems that need to be solved. We expect from them a formula for the distribution of that 19 million. lv. We have also received proposals from them for health policies concerning cooking in children's kitchens concerning children's health care for children in nursery and kindergartens and many other policies that will improve health levels in municipalities where mayors were present yesterday. With regard to large obligations, this is an extremely serious problem that we have been debating for many years. His genesis is very far back in time. The main reason for the responsibilities of the medical institutions is that we all know the poor use of clinical pathways. There is a big debate here that is related to clinical pathways, diagnostically related groups, the difference in one and the other. In this direction, what we have taken is something that will give breath, namely increasing the clinical pathways by an average of 10%. The lowest financed will be increased by more, and those who are well funded will be increased by less money. We know that this effect will be felt at least in municipal hospitals and that is why we increased the subsidy under Decree No 3 by 6 million. lv. by the end of the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u142	Thank you. Are you going to express yourself, or are you so pleased that you won't take the floor? You will express yourself, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u143	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, in our country there is concern about the large amount of debt, because in Professor Mihailov's reply in November last year the amount is less. And then there was a commitment that there would be will and politics, and the coronavirus gave the government the opportunity to draw attention, especially to the health model and to the hospitals, state, municipal, university, in whatever form they were, to be solidly fortified and to make policy. Regarding what you say, and you are right about the value of the health pathways in 2009 I attended a round table at which the then Minister of Finance Dyankov said: "By the end of the year I will make sure that all the paths are at such a value that there are no deficits and no obligations in hospitals............................................................................................................................................ There is still talk and we cannot understand where the resistance comes from so long as the paths are not of those real value that there may be no deficits in the hospitals themselves. Even if you're the best hospital manager, if that's what's at stake, hospitals go to constant deficits. Secondly, we are addressing you with regard to municipal hospitals, yesterday you made this meeting a greeting! Try, especially in the test the state is put on, to be the minister who supports municipal healthcare, as it is socially, it is in remote areas and not to be neglected as it has been so far. Last but not least, I would like to address you as the Minister who will give the solution for functioning in a health crisis to the European Restoration Fund. Make this as useful as possible, and make sure that this plan that you propose for the health system is as consensual as possible, with everyone involved. And most of all, try this debate to make it consensus at least in the Bulgarian Parliament, because here, both the members of parliament and the doctors of our group and of all the groups we want the health system to have confidence, especially in the terms of SOVID-19. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u144	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. We continue with a question from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova concerning the presence of sick and/or contagious persons with SOVID-19 from the Center for Emergency Medical Assistance in Ruse on 8 July 2020 and the measures taken by the Ministry of Health and Regional Health Inspectorate Ruse for a timely examination of the staff. To ask the question please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! On June 30th of this year, a nurse from the Emergency Medical Centre, Ruse, was admitted to hospital with SOVID-19, as of ten employees of the Center who contacted her, RZI, the city of Ruse, ordered quarantine. At the time of the introduction of the matter to the National Assembly, it remained for one week for the employees who were quarantined to return to work without all being tested for contagion with SOVID-19. My question is as follows: how many sick, examined and/or infectious employees with SOVID-19 from the Emergency Medical Center Ruse, on 8 July this year? What measures are the Ministry of Health and RZI taking for a timely examination of the staff for SOVID-19 at the Center for Emergency Medical Care Ruse?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u146	Thank you, Mrs. Naydenova. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u147	Mr. Chairman, Dr. Naydenova, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On July 8, 2020, a nurse with a laboratory confirmed diagnosis of SOVID-19 was diagnosed among the staff of the CSMP city of Ruse. She was reported as a 49-year-old woman hospitalized on June 30, 2020 at the University Hospital of Medical University.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. In the course of an epidemiological study conducted by RZI Ruse, contact persons were identified, decorated and assessed according to the risk. Ten members of the staff of the CSMP City of Ruse have been identified, who have made direct unprotected contact with the injured one. The individuals are placed under a 14-day quarantine with a follow-up of their health, and until their completion there are no diseases among them. On 9 July 2020, the same were tested using the Polymerazic Response Method (PCR) and had a negative result. With regard to a laboratory study for SOVID-19 of the remaining staff of the CSMP, the city of Ruse, at regional level, steps have been taken in the phased examination of all subjects with rapid antibody antigen tests. In case of positive results, an additional polymeric chain reaction test shall be carried out. The total number of staff of CSMP Ruse, according to the submitted list of RZI Ruse, is 168 persons. Of these, 139 people were examined as follows: with PCR tests 10 personnel identified as high-risk due to public close unprotected contact with the confirmed case were examined. They're all negative. A rapid antibody test and a rapid antigen test have investigated 27 subjects with low-risk contacts from the CSMP city of Ruse. They're all negative. The rest of the staff at the CSM Ruse are 131. Of these, 102 subjects have been tested so far with rapid antibody testing. One positive person was found for IgM antibodies and the same was tested with PCR for COVID-19. The result is negative. The distribution of medical personnel by affiliates is as follows: from administration, Ruse
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u148	Get it over with, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u149	As seen from the above, the territorial structure of the Ministry of Health in Ruse district in the face of RZI Ruse takes the necessary steps to examine the CSM medical staff in a timely manner in order to prevent the spread of SOVID-19 both among the medical community and in the field of ensuring continuity of the medical care services of the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u150	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Naydenova, would you like a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u151	Dear Minister, there have undoubtedly been problems with the timely study, but anyway RZI, the city of Ruse, have stepped up and have done what is necessary for both the Center and its affiliates. I put this issue in order not only to get the full information and to let people know that they are actually being cared for, but also that you, as Minister of Health, should continue this tradition, for which, since we are in this Parliament, we have been constantly alarming for all the care that is needed for medical staff. I suppose you won't allow it, however difficult it may be, and whatever it takes for you, a medical facility will become an outbreak. Take care of the paramedics. You are the principal of most of them. More closely to keep employers able to carry out their duties in due time, both by examination and by personal protective equipment and workwear. We hope and very carefully monitor this process so that we can protect people so that they can help. Otherwise, it's all pointless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u152	Thank you, Mrs. Naydenova. A hole, Minister Angelov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u153	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Dr. Naydenova, yes, the question you are asking is clear. We will make every effort to prevent the spread of the disease to medical personnel. The basic principles for this non-compliance are precisely the correct use of personal protective equipment and disinfectants. Currently, there are sufficient quantities of personal protective equipment and disinfectants in the country, which are distributed by the logistics headquarters under the leadership of Mr. Nikolov. All regional health inspections shall be provided with sufficient personal protective equipment and disinfectants. I make one appeal: if there is a medical facility in which there is a shortage, to contact RZI in due time to obtain the necessary quantities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u154	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question is from the MP Georgi Mihailov on criteria for changing the anti-epidemic measures in the country. Here you are, Mr. Mihailov, to present your general question as far as I can see.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! At the beginning of my question, I would like to express my satisfaction that we will now be able to discuss with a real doctor as a minister, because it was very difficult for me, I admit it, regardless of the financial competence, to discuss many of the issues in parliamentary control with Mr. Ananiev, with all due respect to him. Yesterday I took the liberty of putting this question to you in the framework of the hearing, and I will not go into the great details of the three main directions of anti-epidemic measures, research, restructuring of the health system, the general foundations. I want to show you the statistics here. I am sure that, as a person who is directly involved with the pandemic at the moment, you know them, and in them again, they are literally from seven days ago As she is in a group around her with countries with a double or triple smaller human contingent. And all our neighbours, such as Greece, Turkey, Serbia, Romania, have an unparalleled number of researches per million population against the Republic of Bulgaria, respectively. This is one of my questions that you understand very well. Yesterday you partly answered it, but I will seek your more profound answer. The second part of the issue relates to the restructuring of the health system, which began in the course of the pandemic. Many times questions have been asked to the Operations Headquarters, and I took the liberty of asking you this question yesterday, but you did not have time in the course of the answer likely to answer me. The big question for us as clinicians is: why were strategic hospitals such as yours blocked, which you managed until a few days ago, the Pirogov, the Military Medical Academy, and could be made national, as they say, triage, so that the strategic hospitals could be released and they could actually deal with the large and diagnostic-therapeutic modules of Bulgaria, such as the socially significant diseases? Since you do not need me to say as a surgeon, and a qualified surgeon, how many patients are currently delayed with regard to their diagnostic therapy program. Even the President of the Doctor's Union raised the question that all patients should address medical facilities as quickly as possible. But this in these conditions, believe me, is really very difficult, as there is also a psychosis in the population. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] And in this respect, I put the last part of the question. I thank the chairman for carefully monitoring the timing of the speech, but the questions are very serious.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u156	One more minute.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u157	Mr. Simeonov, thank you. I have been given a very negative impression, I say the most professional word that your subordinate, who holds a serious position in the Ministry, as is the Chief Health Inspector.. I want to ask you here in front of the whole room and in front of the whole nation................................. that he has allowed himself to give conclusions that are of interest, do not respond to the truth. They are two: first, that the fatal risk, you know what IFR means: International Fatality Risk, in the CIVID-19 is seven times higher than that of the flu. As you know very well the data from Nature that are constantly falling down, that the mortality is currently between 0.3 and 0.7%, and the incidence of influenza mortality is 0.1%. But it's inconclusive data. You know how dramatic the data was at the beginning. And the second question, which I would not advise the chief health inspector to repeat it twice, is the opinion that young people are also targeted at the infection. You know the data, I was quoting the rules of the pediatric association yesterday.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u158	Mr. Mikhailov, I'll take your word for it now.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u159	These are things that should not happen in the nation, because in healthcare, its leaders must give people faith in dealing with this problem. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u160	You have two minutes to ask a question. You used four minutes and twenty seconds, even though you were warned. I'll make one more remark. You must ask a question that is clearly and accurately formulated in writing. The questions you asked have nothing to do with the written question you asked and is right in front of me. Mr. Minister, you have three minutes to answer the written question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u161	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Professor Mihailov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! According to the provision of art. 63, para. 1 of the Health Act the emergency epidemic situation shall be declared in the immediate danger to the life and health of citizens from the epidemic spread of contagious disease under art. 61, para. 1 of the Health Act in order to protect and protect the lives and health of citizens. The same is announced for a certain period of time by a decision of the Council of Ministers on the proposal of the Minister of Health on the basis of an assessment carried out by the Chief State Health Inspector of the existing epidemic risk. In the event of such a situation by order of the Minister of Health and on a proposal from the Chief State Health Inspector, temporary anti-epidemic measures for the territory of the country or for a separate area shall be introduced, and by order of the Director of the Regional Health Inspection in agreement with the Chief State Health Inspector, temporary anti-epidemic measures may be introduced in the territory of a separate area, municipality or locality. Temporary anti-epidemic measures introduced by order of the Minister of Health may also include a prohibition of entering the territory of the country of nationals of other countries, with the exception of citizens with permanent, long-term or long-term residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as members of their families, and may also include temporary restriction of movement into the territory of the country, as well as temporary suspension or restriction of operation or regime of public-use establishments. The characteristics of the measures introduced by March related to COVID-19 are determined by the specifics of the agent, which is a virus of still unclear origin, of unexplained infectiousness, no fully established mechanism and routes of transmission of infection, no conclusive evidence to build effective immunity after illness, respectively of collective immunity to prevent infection. To date, it has been found that in addition to the patient, a source of infection may also be a asymptomatic carrier or the so-called asymptomatic carrier where the causeer is released before clinical symptoms occur and is an important source of infection. The fact is that there is no specific etiological treatment and prophylaxis to break the epidemic chain and the possibility of spreading COVID-19. The measures applicable in the conditions of pandemic such as the epidemiological situation related to COVID-19 include: mandatory isolation and/or treatment of vectors and sick; reduction of the possibility of transmission of infection through hygienic and containment actions, such as stopping public bodies and conducting mass events, introducing physical distance requirements, the use of facial protective masks, enhanced disinfection and remote form of work, training and communication; quarantine of healthy contact persons or persons arriving from places with the spread of infection in order to reduce the import of the disease; introduction of enhanced measures for the prevention and control of infections related to medical care. The implementation of measures requires a complex approach. The measures change in line with changes in the epidemiological situation and the spread of infection, geographical distribution, age, professional and other peculiarities of the affected groups of individuals, the possibility of rapid detection and diagnosis, the collection of reliable data for analysis and forecasts...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u162	Get it over with, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u163	...the state of the health system, health insurance, personnel resources, material base and equipment, including a system of supply of supplies. Under European law, healthcare is a national priority. However, Bulgaria is related geographically and historically to the Balkan countries and is part of the European Union. As a full member of the European Union, the country participates in the European Commission's draft and published on 15 April this year a Common Road map of the European Union to lift the restrictive measures for COVID 19. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u164	Thank you. Mr. Mihailov, the line. You can take off your replica mask and accommodate yourself within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u165	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! I am very pleased that, despite the strict remark of the Vice-President of the National Assembly, you have answered the question that I have asked you very well. In my reply, I will only ask you, realizing that you cannot be responsible for a team that has been before you, to pay particular attention in several areas of anti-epidemic measures. The idea that they can be the same for all countries of the European Union is naive, as age contingent, economic development, geographical features and urban factors are quite different in different countries of the European Union. I just want to remind you that some countries have put a stop to flights to their countries for a month or more. You know what the most infected countries are right now, Mr. Minister. So my request is: I will not come back here to the problems why the parks and mountains were closed for Bulgaria's lungs, for the Bulgarian citizens, how the night institutions were opened, and schools closed for that we talked about yesterday. My request is: from now on, as the problem is chronic, I carefully followed a study of the University of Massachusetts on Spanish influenza in 1918, undoubtedly a second increase awaits us. He's certainly waiting for us! But knowing that this is not a particularly dangerous infection, knowing which are the target contingents, and unfortunately, for many other reasons in Bulgaria they are almost gone. We don't have a significant population contingent over 75 and over 80 years. My request is: the team you run and who should be, and I hope it will be, professional, to meet the nation's requirements. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u166	Thank you, because you were punctual in time, and you were punctual in your speech. You made an exact line on the written question. Thank you. Would you like to use the backrest, Mr. Secretary? Thank you. You may feel free, there are no other questions for you. I wish you a pleasant and fruitful job! There is a question to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova from the National Representative Mrs. Nadia Klisurska concerning problems on the Republican road III-8003 in the region of Blatnitsa village. Here you are, you have two minutes to present your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u167	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, ladies ministers! Dear Minister Avramova, Republican roads are exclusive state property and are managed by the Road Infrastructure Agency. The activities include in addition to construction, repair and maintenance of roads. In response from you in January last year about the state of the road infrastructure in Strelcha Municipality you provide information that really on these sections of road III-8003 in the section of Blatnitsa village Strelcha and III-801 in the section Panagyurishte Strelcha the state of the road is extremely bad and there is no road marking. That's a year and a half ago. Two years in a row, the inhabitants of Strelcha Municipality are sending signals to the Road Infrastructure Agency and Pazardzhik District Road Management about the lack of marking. What are they saying? In these participants there is often the formation of thick fog, of wet and slippery pavement. Where these circumstances are present, the lack of road marking shall lead to extremely reduced visibility for the direction of the road, its boundaries and road traffic. In accordance with art. 3, para. 1, t. 3 of Ordinance No 2 of 17 January 2001. For road-marked road signalling, it leads to information to road users, to the direction of the road and to the absence of that road marking is a failure to comply with regulations. In 2019, the district governor also signals and responds to these signals that a request for road marking has been made. A year and a half later, it's missing. What will you answer me, Madam Minister, regarding the absence of this marking and the poor condition of the roads in these sections?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u168	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. Madam Minister, you have three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u169	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Klisurska, experts of the regional road managements, as well as representatives of the road support companies with which the Road Infrastructure Agency has contracts, periodically carry out tours on the Republican road network and when finding problems activities are assigned to remove them under a contract for ongoing maintenance, production, delivery and installation of road signs, delivery and installation of restrictive systems and laying the road marking. Current works shall be carried out in relation to the resources available in the budget for the relevant calendar year allocated for maintenance and depending on the condition and class of the road. In this regard, I inform you that in the beginning of July are prepared additional assignments for ongoing activities on the territory of Pazardzhik district, as for Republican Roads III-8003 in the region of Blatnitsa village, Strelcha and III-801 Panagyurishte, Strelcha is provided for the following implementation: - activities related to the provision of visibility - cutting of shrubs and mowing of lawns and cutting of single trees for a total of 52 105 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - drainage activities - machine alignment of banquets and cleaning of trenches with profile bucket and cleaning of landslides, collapses and fallen stones for a total value of 50 109 BGN. The assignments will be approved next week and will be assigned to the road support company contractor under the current contract for repair and maintenance of the Republican roads in the territory of Regional Road Management Pazardzhik, which is Regarding the horizontal marking of the indicated sections at the end of June of the Regional Road Management Pazardzhik, an additional task has been drawn up to restore the road marking along Republican Road III-801, which is worth 48 776 BGN, which is also under approval. Once the approval procedure has been completed, the activities envisaged will be immediately allocated for implementation by the end of the construction season. In this year the Republican Road III-8003 in the section from the village of Blatnitsa to Strelcha will be performed and current repairs on the asphalt flooring will be carried out. In the next year, the possibilities for larger repairs will be assessed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u170	Thank you. A line? Mrs. Klisurska, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u171	Dear Minister, I am partly satisfied with what you have informed me and the inhabitants of Strelcha Municipality, who are excited about this problem. I hope the funds will be made available for the next time. There the section is not more than five kilometers in the Panagyurishte route, the Strelcha, for road marking. I am concerned because in 2018 and 2019 such assurance of road marking has been given in these sections and it has not happened. I hope that happens. My line is related to the necessary repair, which should happen in the section between Blatnitsa and Strelcha on Republican Road III-8003. What are you telling me in response last year about this Republican road? The fact that it is extremely important for the municipalities of Strelcha and Pazardzhik is the main transport communication. Dear Minister, I invite you personally to come and see what state the road is in, that anyone passing on it will crash into the asphalt. He's already in extremely bad shape. That's what you said last year in response to the state of this particular precinct. I think it is extremely important that funds are planned in stages. Currently the budget procedures are underway and I sincerely hope that in the next calendar year the residents of Strelcha Municipality will receive a clear answer that there will be repairs on this road. The cars are crashing into the asphalt! I'm saying it most responsiblely. The school bus goes this way every day and drives the children from Blatnitsa to Strelcha. It is time for the inhabitants of Strelcha municipality to pay attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u172	Thank you. Are you going to use a hole? Here you are, Minister. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u173	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Klisurska, I understand your concern, as well as the residents who use this republican third-class road. The efforts of the Road Infrastructure Agency in the framework of the established budget for 2020 are to maintain a normal state of the road so that they are safe for travel. Of course, the needs to repair the Republican road network are in times greater financial resources than what we have. At the same time, I will mention only a few roads that are in the territory of Pazardzhik district, which are being repaired at the moment, so that you yourselves can understand how much money is being spent and that it is not the unwillingness of the Road Infrastructure Agency to react with a major repair of this road, but in fact the financial shortage has led to this situation not only on this, but also on other third-class roads in the country. We are repairing the road Sofia "Belovo" Pazardzhik "Plovdiv" for 5 million. lv.; on the Republican third-class road Pazardzhik lv.; second-class in Pazardzhik II-37 features from 123 to 125 km for 3 million. lv.; road III-8043 Velingrad lv. I understand your desire to help the residents. I am also committed this year to performing ongoing repairs and ensuring safe passage along this third-class road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u174	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We continue parliamentary control with questions to the Minister of Interior Mr. Hristo Terziyski. Question from the National Representative Todor Bajchev on criteria and number of employees of the Ministry of Interior who are entitled to use a tourist voucher for sea holidays in Bulgaria. I don't know what voucher you're talking about. This is probably about the money they are entitled to receive for a holiday, amounting to 210 BGN. The voucher is a document. There are no documents here in these actions. Here you are to present your question.. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear Members of the National Assembly! The Ministry of Interior has been tasked with performing numerous functions in the protection of public order. These have also been assigned during the CIVID-19 pandemic as guarding, patrolling, carrying out checks and also enough other duties that they have performed, I dare say brilliantly, and under bad weather conditions.... in rain, snow, cold, pek, without the necessary protective and protective clothing. In this regard, I dare argue that the public, the government, the National Assembly praised the performance of their tasks. An expression of this assessment is the provision of a tourist voucher for sea holidays in Bulgaria " or so it was titled in advance, then on 15 July the Council of Ministers made another decision. I have to ask you this question: is the number of employees from the Ministry of Interior who are entitled to a tourist holiday voucher according to a decision of the Council of Ministers set out criteria on which employees are entitled to these vouchers and are they consistent with anyone? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u176	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. Mr. Minister, you have three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u177	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Baychev, in order to meet the requirements and expectations of civil society, the Ministry of Interior takes a number of organizational and management measures, some of them aimed at building a favorable working environment and increasing the motivation of employees through career development, strengthening their social status, creating suitable conditions and opportunities for rest. In order to limit the spread of COVID-19, the police authorities are entrusted with additional activities related to the implementation of anti-epidemic measures resulting from the orders of the Minister of Health A large resource of the Ministry of Interior is involved to carry out these activities, and for some periods during the months of April and May the leave of police officers has been suspended. Together with doctors, they are on the front line in the fight against the spread of COVID-19 and with their daily work contribute to limiting the contagion and less painful passage of our country through this epidemic. For the efforts made and in order to further stimulate with individual cash prizes of 650 BGN. are awarded officers with police functions involved in the control and verification of persons passing by and the certification documents presented by them at the border crossings of the regional cities, settlements and designated areas under quarantine, and border-control crossing points; physical control of persons placed under quarantine; patrol-post activity directly related to the implementation of tasks for the implementation of the orders issued by the Minister of Health to limit the spread of that disease. After the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria decided by its decision of 21 July the order to use the aid for basic tourist services and domestic tourism under art. 27, para. 2 of the Law on Measures and Actions during the emergency situation and for overcoming the consequences, I have assigned the establishment of the necessary organisation for any employee entitled to a tourist holiday voucher to be able to benefit from the aid after submitting an application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u178	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Baychev, you have the right to reply for two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u179	Thanks, I'll take it. Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I can see that there is not yet a certain number, since the Minister has not responded. There is a working group, order and rules, I hope so. Why, however, my question is exactly that and I am entering the specific " because Minister Marinov, as well as the Prime Minister Mr. Borisov, stated that 16 500 people were stimulated. This, if the decision of the Council of Ministers for seven nights is to be implemented, is 102 thousand. Nights. Clearly, each of these people won't go on vacation alone, you'll have to go with a family, with a woman or with a child, or you'll have 200,000 overnights. What also bothers me is that the Ministry of Interior does not have the opportunity to take up so many nights in view of the bed base at its disposal. Next thing you know, it's embarrassing that they'll be accommodated in private hotels. In which hotels, then, what criteria will they meet? And there's a doubt at all about, I'd say, a corruption scheme in which the Ministry of the Interior will unwittingly enter. Moreover, I also had a meeting with the Syndicate Federation of Ministry of Interior officials who had not participated in the process of making decisions about financial incentives and created a tension in the system. Now they fear there will be tensions in the system again, as they are not sought as a loyal social partner. The other thing to take into account is that at the rest stations of the Ministry of Interior [[the President signals that time has run out]] I'm done, they're using relief. Will these benefits be used in other stations because, if they go somewhere else, they are external to the relevant system and will have to be free-range? If they use Evxinograd, for example, the holiday station of the Council of Ministers, it is for one night. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u180	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. Mr. Minister, the doppelganger?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u181	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Baychev, the employees of the Ministry of Interior system who have directly performed or are currently engaged in an activity related to treatment and prevention of the spread or overcoming the effects of COVID-19 are provided assistance for the use of basic tourist services for internal tourism amounting to 210 BGN. The aid shall be used on a one-off basis until 30 November 2021, during the time of leave of the person for no less than seven nights in establishments or categorized or registered accommodations, taking precedence over the premises of the companies in which the sole owner of the capital is the National Insurance Institute, rehabilitation hospitals and balneotherapy centres, the owners of the State and the rest stations of the ministries and offices on a list adopted by the Council of Ministers. This is the list on which employees can use these services. In this regard, I have ordered that lists of staff entitled to receive assistance for the use of the main tourism services for domestic tourism and by 6 August of this year Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u182	Thank you. Mr. Baychev, if you want further clarification, I can provide you with a complete answer to your questions outside the Chamber. Thank you. We move on to questions to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ms. Denitsa Sacheva. The first question is from the National Representative Georgi Gokov on the problem of thousands of people (about five thousand) with disabilities who will not receive their pensions in a normal (full) amount for July. Mr. Gyokov, you're welcome to expose your question without braces.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u183	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll make sure he doesn't have braces. Dear Minister, dear Members of the House! Madam Minister, of course the issue is no longer relevant, but I wanted to ask this question because of the approach to solving the problem, and the problem itself was to remind that thousands of people with disabilities close to five thousand people were in real danger of not getting their pensions in full for July. The reason for this is the emergency situation from 13 March to 13 May and the related extraordinary legislation. According to proposals by the Council of Ministers and adopted by the National Assembly Law on measures and actions during a state of emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly on 13 March, the decisions of TELK, which expire during this period of emergency, were extended by two months, i.e. after its end until 13 July. Thus, the NSI had reason to charge and pay only half of the pensions by 13 July and the rest did not. Dear Minister, the question has been addressed to you, although the expectations were to initiate the changes by the Minister of Health at that time Kiril Ananiev, who announced on June 19th that the problem had been identified. And rather, the expectations of asking the question to you were to answer whether there is a mechanism for the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to help these people........................ in this case about five thousand people, in the situation of being left on half a pension and with this half a pension to have to endure and buy medicines, disinfectants and so on. Rather, from this point of view were the expectations to say what is the readiness of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to assist them if the problem had not been resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u184	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Madam Secretary, come in. You have three minutes to respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u185	Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Gokov, as you have also pointed out in your question, the situation created is due to the fact that the decisions of TELK continued until July 13 after the expiry of the date of the emergency situation, but only three days later after July 13th, on July 16th the National Assembly changed by § 20, para. 1 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law on Measures and Actions during the emergency situation, and thus it was possible to overcome the consequences of the fact that the expert decisions had expired. Thus, in the implementation of the amended period by the NSI, all TELK decisions were officially extended until 31 October 2020, including the time limits for the payment of invalidity pensions, as well as the foreign aid allowances for persons with a fixed disability period ending in the period 13 March. This measure totals 13 461 persons. As far as the 5017 pensioners mentioned by you are concerned, their pensions initially paid by 13 July have been further processed and the same persons have already been transferred by today.. 31 July, their due amounts, including by the end of July. In the event that there was no such solution, we were prepared to offer appropriate one-time assistance to these persons, but, as you can see, we have done everything we need to do in due time, so we regret the inconvenience caused, but to date, everyone has received their full pensions.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u186	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Gokov, I don't suppose you'll get a line, since the matter is settled. You'd still like to take the floor. Here you go. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u187	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear Mr. Chairman, MPs! I know that the issue has been resolved, but I want to continue it if you want to, even if it doesn't work in the future, because the disability pension is acquired when people have lost their part-time or full-time workability and in most cases it is their only income. And when someone questions this income, I'll call it a crime. You'll say it's a strong word, but it's true. There was a real threat that these five thousand people would remain only until July 13th with a pension. Yes, it is true that we have extended the deadline for the second time and this has led to this situation, but the legislator, in this case the importers of the measures, had to assess these things. Most of these people have filed certificates at TELK, but things never happen to them because of the coronavirus crisis. I only took the floor and quoted the words of a woman to whom I will not mention the name, but who addressed us. She says: "The other things are obviously more important to them. I accept it so that I am not important enough, everyone like me is not important enough. " - She accuses, and for good reason perhaps, the Council of Ministers, and the National Assembly, but I do not want to be among the accused, and my colleagues too. That is why we have taken this question and to tell you that we have waited a long time for the things for which you have given a sign through the Minister of Health that they have identified themselves already on 19 July, but seeing that you are not solving it, we have submitted our proposals for a change to the Law on Measures during the emergency situation. In conclusion, I will only say that you have resolved the issue again, but viciously, between the first and second votes in the Transitional and Final Rules, notice the Law on Public Offering of Securities! This is not how it is done, Madam Minister, because this collapse and the little trust left in the National Assembly and its legislative activity. But I'm also grateful on behalf of these people for solving their problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u188	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Are you going to use a hole? No. Right. Let's move on to the next issue of the MPs Svetla Bachvarova-Piralkova and Georgi Gokov, on measures to overcome the crisis in the sector. Who's gonna bring it up? Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u189	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister! The spread of the virus has led to difficulties, even to the temporary closing of hundreds, I would even say thousands of businesses in Bulgaria, others working with minimal capacity, third expect a decrease in turnover gains, sales and so on. The worse for the economy, however, is that it is expected in the coming months when thousands of people in our country will continue to lose their jobs or will have to work with reduced salaries. There is no exception in this respect and the sector. In fact, it is one of the most affected by the crisis that applies to both state-owned forest enterprises and all employed in logging. The policy of programmes and employment schemes implemented by European Union funds in this sector and other relating to agriculture and forests is excluded. And since money is provided for them in other sectors specialized in these sectors programmes and schemes, this has also been transferred to our national legislation. In all likelihood, this is also the reason why "Agriculture and forests" are excluded from the government's support measures related to the current virus crisis. But that puts the sector on its knees. And the question is: what measures are you going to take to support the sector of Gori and the economy to overcome the consequences of the ongoing crisis? The answer to the question is becoming more and more pressing, because the expectations are that the economy will only begin its recovery at the beginning of 2022. Until then, those working in the sector of Gori and the holding sector have nothing to rely on but adequate treatment from the state to their sector. So the issue really stands on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u190	Thank you. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u191	Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, Mr. Gokov! Four months after the National Assembly's decision to declare a state of emergency in the country, it is clear that the pandemic changed the situation in the labour market. At the beginning of the pandemic there was an increasing stream of unemployed people, and the most common cause of job loss was the impact of the coronavirus infection. In June, there was a decline of 22,000 registered unemployed people compared to May 2020. Data also show that from the beginning of the crisis to June 22nd, more than 107,000 unemployed persons were employed. Data on registered unemployed people show that the bans and restrictive measures introduced to limit the coronavirus did not directly affect the Forestry and Forestry Sector. The registered unemployed show that there is no serious increase in the unemployed in the sector. Since the beginning of the crisis, a total of 1427 people who have worked in forestry activities have registered in the labour bureaus. These are mainly seasonal workers in activities such as afforestation, clearing of logging, logging, workers in nurseries and others. The Ministry, through the Employment Agency, offers different opportunities for unemployed people working in forestry activities to be employed, including in other sectors of the economy. If necessary, they can be targeted at different types of trainings to assist them in the process of looking for work. The starters of 3 August 2020 Next week, regional employment programmes will be employed by 2309 unemployed persons and therefore 6 million are provided. Three hundred and forty-four Unemployed persons will be hired to carry out a wide range of activities, such as maintenance of a road network, parks, gardens, playgrounds, children's and sports grounds, waste collection and hauling, etc. The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry is responsible for state policy in the field of forestry and, in accordance with its powers, shall monitor the development of the sector and propose measures to assist it if necessary. I would like to assure you that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy monitors the situation in the labour market, will continue to take actions aimed at mitigating the negative impact on people and businesses, as well as promoting the preservation of employment. We will also continue and are ready to take urgent measures in terms of increasing the opportunities of the unemployed in the forestry and forestry sector to take their jobs according to the programmes, which I have already mentioned above. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u192	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Would you like to use a line? Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u193	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I am not pleased with your answer, because you have not answered the question asked at all about the situation of the sector. I must inform you that this sector is one of the most important in the country and 74% of the forests are managed by state forest enterprises. There are six, 7 thousand people working, assigning activities related to forest management, forestry activities in the forest roads and being in an extremely difficult position with regard to the provision of wage funds, so your information on how unemployed they are, these are rather in timber companies, which also face difficulties. Sector's in crisis. A video conference of the Director-General of Forestry took place on 27 May. All EU member states have said that there is a reduction in revenue in forests due to measures taken in COVID. Hungary currently provides 70% of the wages of workers in the forestry sector. Poland considers that in the long term, the negative consequences will be very serious as they threaten sustainable forest management and its management. France is setting up a fund. Only Bulgaria tells you that there is absolutely no need to do anything, because, you see, we have 1,000 unemployed. We are talking about state-owned forest enterprises with employed ones who cannot afford to pay their salaries. Please pay special attention! You have your measures. We are talking about measures - 60/40, taking wages, because otherwise we will find ourselves in a crisis where there is no one to manage these forests, and we will create an extremely big problem for the country. That was my call, and you're talking in general about how you don't see a crisis in the sector. There is a crisis in the sector, but the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry is only interested in agricultural measures, the forestry sector is neglecting.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u194	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Will you take the hole? Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u195	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! What I said in the answer to the question concerned the unemployed who are registered with us and for whom there will be measures relating to regional employment. With regard to measure 60/40 for the agricultural and forestry sector, there are restrictions introduced by the European Commission which do not allow us to make this notification, which we have talked about several times. However, with regard to the future measure 60/40, the new design, which will be in the last three months of this year, we are ready to propose measures that relate specifically to the forestry sector in the field of employment. Once again, I stress that all sectoral policies are conducted by the relevant sectoral ministries. We are trying to get into the specifics of all our fellow Members, but in this particular case we have also had restrictions which stem from the requirements of the European Commission for the division of the various programmes under which projects are financed at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u196	Thank you, Mrs. Sacheva. That concludes the questions to you. Successful work at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy! The Ministry is waiting for you. The next question is to the Minister of Education and Science Mr. Krasimir Valchev. A question will be asked by the people representative Nikolay Tsonkov about working conditions in kindergartens. Mr. Tsonkov, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u197	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, my question is dictated by the importance that kindergartens have and their role in the system of preschool and school education, even more in recent weeks, the question of places in kindergartens is becoming more and more relevant. I would like to point out a few facts in this direction relating to working conditions in children's buildings, including pay, which is of no consequence, speaking of pedagogical support staff in kindergartens. The number of children should normally be 20 " 25 " per group. It turns out that in Sofia and in larger cities they reach 33 children. This means that much harder to work with so many children. You know that an individual approach is very important and working with every child, especially at such an initial age. That is why we need to think about this. This is a serious problem, also against the backdrop of the growing shortage of places. Paying the pedagogical staff is also important. I'd like to know what the Ministry sees in this matter. There are great differences with regard to kindergartens as well as in a settlement, in a large city, and between cities. This also creates a problem that should be solved with regard to motivation in kindergartens, so I would like to understand in this regard: what is the real vision of the Ministry of Education and Science in terms of pay, working conditions? How can they be improved? I await your answer, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u198	Thank you, Mr. Tsonkov. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u199	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tsonkov, where there are comprehensive and thorough international analyses for the effectiveness of the various public programs, show that with the highest rate of public return from all public programs are the costs of education and in particular the costs of pre-school education. Why is preschool education so important? Because at this age the cognitive, social-emotional, and mostly the language skills of children are formed. There is a great difference between children who have attended kindergartens and those who have not visited. That's what international research is all about. It is best seen by the primary teachers, so we proposed the amendments to the Law on pre-school and school education for the mandatory range of children of four years, because this is a strong integration measure, but it also greatly contributes to the educational and intellectual development of children at this age. From then on, the main factor in the preschool education system is the teacher. Teachers in kindergartens are under equal conditions regarding pay with those in the school education system. When we talk about raising the fees for teachers in the school education system, it also applies to teachers in the preschool education system. This year, as a country, we are giving a little over 1 billion. lv. more than in 2017 for the remuneration of pedagogical specialists. I'm talking about pedagogical specialists, because besides teachers, we have psychologists, pedagogical advisors, you know a few more groups of Pedagogicals, that's the more general term. This increase is nearly 74% in three years. With the fourth step next year, we must reach close to the double increase and the teachers' salaries to rise above 125%, perhaps more than 130% of the national average. This will allow us, in the long run, to provide the system with pedagogical specialists. We have a smaller problem with securing the preschool education system than the school education system, especially in some disciplines. In general, the admission in the professional field of Pedagogics is much better, filled, even increased in recent years. As a result of the increase in remuneration and because we made the professional direction a priority, we give second scholarships to the students and additional funding to the schools, but it seems to be falling behind the admission in the professional field of Pedagogics of the training in........ where the teachers of subjects are. That is to say, in terms of remuneration, this is the professional group with the highest wage growth. The bigger problems are related to what I said there are small and remote municipalities in which access is more difficult to provide. Therefore, additional funding was regulated for small and remote municipalities or kindergartens in small and remote municipalities. Separately for kindergartens with concentration of individuals from vulnerable groups where work is harder. These are usually children of Roma origin, but not only.. usually, mostly children with lower education of parents who lack respect for education. There this intervention of pedagogical interaction with the teacher is critical. If you'll allow me just a little bit more, I'll continue in the second part. The large number of children is a problem in large cities indeed, so investment must be made. Only in the southern districts of Sofia with nearly 300,000 people has the population increased. That is why yesterday the additional 50 million was voted only for Sofia Municipality, before that another 15 million and a comprehensive program for 210 million for the construction of kindergartens, nurseries and schools, as schools are important, but most of the funds will go to kindergartens. I'll continue with my exhibition further.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u200	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Tsonkov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u201	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, I am somewhat satisfied with the answer to the question. Firstly, in Europe, the average number of children in a group is 10, that is, we have, especially in large cities, a significantly reduced number of children, because, again, this guarantees the individual approach, working with the child, hence security, guarantees for parents and a natural guarantee of children's personal development, which is very important, as you said, at this initial age. The other problem, which I would especially like to address, are the assistant counselors. Turns out they're on minimum wage. After the deductions, they receive the small 470 BGN. Keep in mind that they do no less work than the rest of the staff. I'm talking here about cases in Sofia where working conditions are better. Then I would like to draw attention to the fact that due to the lack of funds in most of the municipalities there is a problem with children with special educational needs, i.e. the lack of resource teachers. There is also an imbalance in the upbringing of children in groups. Also material conditions, including in Sofia, between kindergartens. It should be considered how to catch these material conditions. There are many examples in which teachers work in several places so that they can compensate and receive a normal and dignified salary. In other words, the prime minister's priority since 2005 was to solve the problem of kindergartens. Then he said he would solve it when he was in the fetus, and 15 years later the problem was not solved. I'm just gonna quote you on the Batashka Watersyl road that's been made for four years. You can all see for yourselves what a serious facility is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u202	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We move on to the next question again by the National Representative Nikolay Tsonkov on financing the system of higher education. Mr. Tsonkov, come in. You have two minutes to ask questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u203	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! We have spoken to you repeatedly about the problems that continue in the system of higher education. This system has been reformed for several years, and substantial amendments to the Higher Education Act have also been made, which concern some of the funding, the management of each university and university. All this is good, we will see the changes to what results will result, but in the conditions of a pandemic it turns out that the main problem that remains and exists is the financing of the entire system and I will tell you why. On the one hand, we have some permanent expenses of universities that they need to do, whether students are present or studies that are conducted are remote, online. It is, for example, about the dorms, only with regard to the dorms, the decline is in revenue, because students do not pay rents in this period of pandemic, and in this sense universities should in some way be compensated for this hole, which is opened in their budgets. On the other hand, we have a reduction in the number of students who are in a state form of education, which also leads to a reduction in funding for universities, and here we also see that this financial hole is increasing. I would therefore like to ask you: what does the Ministry provide for as measures and actions in terms of financing the higher education system, what are your views in this direction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u204	Thank you, Mr. Tsonkov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u205	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tsonkov, at the Ministry of Education and Science, 33 state universities are under budget, with the exception of the four military universities to the Minister of Defence and the Ministry of Interior Academy at the Minister of Interior. We monitor the implementation of their budgets on a monthly basis, especially during these months of a pandemic situation under the conditions of COVID-19. In short, what is the situation compared to last year? Last year of the six-month period, higher education schools had a revenue of 165 million. BGN, and this year they have revenue for the first six months 159 million. BGN, that is, we have 6 million. lv. a reduction in revenue. These are not as semi-semistrial fees as income from using services, and from rent, what you said. A large part of the higher schools have rented out property, and separately we have unsubstantiated revenue from.Student chairs and dormitories. On the other hand, in terms of costs, we also have a reduction of 6 million. BGN, but we have an increase in staff costs by 8 million, which is normal I mean, we have missed revenue, but we also have missed expenses. In addition, the transfer from the state budget was increased by 28 million. lv. On an annual basis, we have provided for 50 million increases, one part is allocated under the support for training, but one part is additional costs that we are making from the budget of the Ministry of Education. It's very important here that I specify that I speak on average. It is very conditional when spoken on average, because there are also higher schools that are in a very good financial condition, and those that are not in such good condition, but the average picture shows that the balance of higher schools is better than last year - 6 million revenue cuts, 6 million cost reductions, but 28 million increase in transfer. Unlike economic operators, higher schools of budgetary organisations do not have a reduction in the main revenues. These are revenue from training and transfer fees. Their positive result increased compared to last year by 28 million and we have 33 million surpluses to the half-year. This does not mean that they will not make additional costs, this surplus will melt, but generally higher schools have stock on accounts of 431 million. That's eight months' worth of spending. 431 million is an impressive amount, I'd say, quite large against the backdrop of their annual budget. Last year at that time they had 379 million, that is, they continue to increase their stocks on account of the savings. At the beginning of the year it was 405. At the same time, I was beginning to tell you, we have high schools with difficulties. These difficulties are due to objective and subjective factors. The biggest difficulties are at the Industrial Academy in Svishtov. That is why an optimization and consolidation program has been approved. This programme aims to stabilize the higher school, but not only for this year to stabilize it, but also to make it an effort to enter into a sustainable financial functioning regime in the coming years. Similarly, funds from the University of Mine and Geology were approved in a smaller amount. So we follow every high school, support them through capital expenditure. Two national programmes are already ready, which we will finance additionally, and the launch of the operation is under way. [[the President signals that time has run out]] with a value of 40 million under the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" I will continue in the second part. These are all measures that are more out of the situation with COVID and the pandemic, so I will then tell you what we specifically foresee.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u206	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Tsonkov, line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u207	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! Yes, I accept what you said in your reply. In fact, the reform that is now going on in higher education requires, as you know, a strong reduction in the number of state contracts, which turns out to be, plus the pandemic situation, a big problem. Because, although we don't mention that we have a direct link between the grant for universities and the number of students, it turns out that this relationship is still very strong. At the UNWE there is a serious reduction, you know, of the students, which, however, opens a very big hole in the budget outside the circumstances that exist. On the other hand, this situation has indeed created problems for universities in terms of funding. I know that you have introduced an coefficient to compensate somewhat for the funding of universities, which covers both science and other important indicators, only that it covers about 20% of what is necessary from the reduced costs. So one of the possible solutions is the single standard of spending for one student to be increased, a question of accounts by how many, and the other one is targeted capital investments in relation to distance online learning. Because we have initial, large costs that need to be incurred, including for textbooks, which, you know, are different in structure and content from other textbooks. This is all costing money and should also be allocated funds, including science. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] It turns out that 2009 science money is 0.35% of GDP, and now 0.12, so science shouldn't go in the back. On the contrary, and this is an intervention tool in this system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u208	Thank you, Mr. Tsonkov. Mr. Minister, you have the right to the doppelganger for two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u209	As a sequel to my answer. Higher schools have permanent expenses, but they also have permanent revenues. Perhaps this gap that you touched on in the first part of your exhibition is mostly in student dormitories and chairs, and that is why we plan to change the regulation with a provision that says that whether they have read the regulations for bed and esophageal, they can absorb the subsidy and thus allow them to cover their fixed costs. A change is needed in the reduction of students. The ultimate massisation led to the rise of irrational demand for higher education, especially in social, economic and legal sciences. Private universities did not reply for a reason by offering, and many state universities. The most dramatic is the cost in the professional field of the economy with 60% of public funding and admission. We make up for it, yes, you're right, but maybe a year late, we make up for it. For this year and for the next, the biggest increase will be in the regulations for professional fields of the economy and the administration and administration, which were also with the lowest regulations for funding of one student. So we think the same way. So we set the system to work with fewer students, but with higher funding for one student, and so it is. We reduced the admission with state funding from 58 to 38 thousand a year, including a Master's degree after a Bachelor's degree, but as you can see, the state subsidy is increasing annually. That is, with more than the reduction, so as to compensate for the reduction in fees. Abbreviating numbers is a necessary goal. In many higher schools the admission in the professional field of the economy was reset, which is long-term good for the University of National and World Economy. Target funds, yes, there must be, we already have some clarity. Perhaps about 200 million will be made available to the education system, 10 million. lv. under the instrument of the European Union REACT-EU, which will be aimed precisely at supporting the creation of training conditions in an electronic environment, but this is common to the system of school and higher education. I told you about the operation that started. I don't know if there's been another year where there's more spending on science to be made. This is, on the one hand, because national programmes are running under the budget. [[the President signals that time has run out]] , objects from the national road map, but also because they started to the greatest extent. This year, the most expenditure shall be incurred under centres of excellence, centres of competence financed by the Operational Programme. Of course, there's always more to be desired. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u210	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I wish you good work by the end of the day. We are now going to ask questions to the Minister of Environment and Water Mr. Emil Dimitrov. The question is from Georgi Gokov on actions of the Ministry of Environment and Water after Decision No 9658 of 15 July 2020 of the Supreme Administrative Court of the Republic of Bulgaria. Mr. Gökov, you are our front man today. Third question in this parliamentary control, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u211	I had two more, but they canceled. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, by decision of 15 July 2020, the Supreme Administrative Court of the Republic of Bulgaria annulled a decision of 9 December 2019 of the Administrative Court of the Republic of Bulgaria. Stara Zagora, in his stead, stated: "Drop the appeal of the Association "For Earth.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Sofia. In other words, the decision of the Stara Zagora Administrative Court was annulled, which obliges it to undergo an environmental and water impact assessment of waste burning at the TPP. The decision is final. Now the plant will be able to burn 49.99 tonnes of household waste daily because EIA is mandatory at 50 tonnes of waste burning per day, and to pollute Galabovo and Radnevo, Stara Zagora District, and Bulgaria, without having to make an environmental assessment of the environmental and health of the people. This basically means the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court, called by the media, which cancels the decision of the Stara Zagora Administrative Court, requiring the Regional Environmental Inspection in Stara Zagora to reconsider its decision whether the plant should have an eco-assessment. In our society, there is a perception that the decisions of the court are not being commented, they are being implemented, but in my opinion, in a democratic state, which should be Bulgaria, the decisions of the court can not only but also must be commented, especially when the health and life of huge groups of people, such as in this case are those living around the plant in question. And especially when the court's decisions are in someone's favor, when they are of great public interest and with far-reaching consequences. But in this case this is a matter of a completely different nature, and not less important is the question I am asking you: what actions, including administrative and legislative changes, will the Ministry of Environment and Water take to protect the people of the region and to clean Bulgaria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u212	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u213	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The TPP is an active combustion plant for operation of which, according to the requirements of the Environmental Protection Act, was issued a complex permit in 2011 by the Executive Director of the Executive Environment Agency. According to the operator's current complex permit, combustion at the thermal power plant is permitted only for lignite. In 2018, the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. "Brickel " is importing to RIEW Stara Zagora, a notification of an investment proposal requesting a replacement of part of the solid fuel used with biomass, non-hazardous waste and oilists. The investment proposal was carried out in accordance with Chapter 6 by decision of 16 July 2018 of the Director of RIEW Stara Zagora, of the nature not to carry out EIA. The ruling was challenged before the Administrative Court of the City of Stara Zagora, by the Association of the Republic of Bulgaria for access to justice and the Administrative Court annulled the decision of the Director of RIEW. The Supreme Administrative Court has appealed against the decision of the Administrative Court before the Supreme Administrative Court and by decision of 15 July 2020, the Supreme Administrative Court confirmed the decision of the Director of RIEW Stara Zagora. It should be noted that the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court does not cancel the obligations of "Brickel" arising from the requirements of the Environmental Act, namely: in the case of a decision of the company to replace part of the solid fuel lignite used with biomass, non-hazardous waste and oilists "Brickel" EAD should submit information to the Executive Director of the Environment Executive Agency on the planned change in the operation of the installation. The Law and the Ordinance on the Terms and Conditions for the issuance of complex permits lay down the procedure, procedure and procedure for determining the applicable procedure, and in the event that the planned change in the operation of the installation is substantial, a procedure for issuing a new complex permit shall be initiated by the competent authority. In addition, I inform you that RIEW In conclusion, I would like to say that it is understandable that you want what we did in Bobov Dol, what we did in Pernik, to start doing it in Stara Zagora, only that a minister can one or two TPPs per year fix, can not all at once in six months. However, we will apply all legal and other applicable means to prevent further contamination in your region where you are elected as a Member of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u214	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I couldn't figure out what these other methods were other than legal, but I'm guessing you didn't mean any force methods. [[Radio.]] Mr. Gokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u215	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Mr. Minister, thank you for your answer. I have no doubt that you will do everything you can to calm people down and at least to protect their health and their lives. I would just like to mention something about these solutions because this has seriously moved society, and the issue is of great public interest in the region that the report on Bulgaria on the review of the implementation of the environmental policies for 2019 of the European Environment Agency states that Bulgaria has not taken any structural measures to address air pollution and to harmonise air quality targets with specific key sectoral policies. And this decision, I am sure that you do not think that such situations with the decision of the court... and the decision of the court has become possible thanks to the legislation that we have.......................... are somehow clearing Bulgaria's image as a country with problems of clean environment and water. Against the backdrop of increasing imports, it may no longer be increasing this way, but in 2019 there was an increasing upward import of waste and junk from other countries. Serious tensions are created in society and do not in any way correspond to trends in the modern development of energy and all other things that lead to water pollution. I don't know how it sounds to you against the backdrop of the fact that the European Commission there is talking about green energy, about the closing of coal thermal plants, and suddenly we allow a power plant to burn waste. It's probably more economical, probably waste should be burned, but when it happens in ways that bring tension, it's not admissible. My question, or as you wish, is: are you going to make any legislative initiative in this direction to improve legislation that does not allow such decisions of the Bulgarian courts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u216	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u217	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, I will respect the court's decision strictly and apply it as ordered. In parallel, I will help the National Assembly with any legislative quick initiatives. I hope in the next session you yourself are the initiator of some of them. I share the view of everyone living in the Stara Zagora region that pollution is a problem. It's been a problem since the '60s. I hope we can solve this together. I've only had six months of opportunity, you've already had several mandates. In parallel, we will continue to solve this problem in the future. I hope it works out the best.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u218	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u219	Dear Mr. Chairman, I would like to make a statement in my capacity as Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u220	The minister of clean air and clean water wants to share his pure thoughts, is that it?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u221	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u222	Share them, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u223	Dear Mr. Simeonov, Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs, distinguished Quaestors, stenographers, computer experts, honourable employees of the National Assembly, distinguished officials of the Bulgarian National Radio and Bulgarian National Television! Today is the last day of this session in the Forty-fourth National Assembly. Since autumn, Parliament's activities have moved to another building. Today, as Minister of Environment and Water, I am practically the last minister in charge of parliamentary control in this building, in this room and in this tribune. I had the honour here to be a five-year MP in two Parliaments, including Vice-President and Chair of several parliamentary committees. I would like to thank and pay my respects and respect to all those who have stood on this stand! From now on, this building remains history. Allow me for the last time to read the text of the oath of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria..................................................................................... 76, para. 2 in which all MPs, MPs in this building, prime ministers and ministers have laid down: I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria [[The Members present in the Chamber become]] to observe the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore! Dear Mr. Chairman, it is your honor to announce the date, time and place of the next parliamentary session and to close the last meeting in this building, then to become part of the Bulgarian parliamentary history, which we should all be proud of. Thanks again! It's been an honor! Long live Bulgaria! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-31.u224	Long live Bulgaria! Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. The way you started it really bothered me. I thought you were going to resign, but thank God... [[Radio.]] Due to the exhaustion of the agenda, I am adjourned. The next meeting of the National Assembly will be held in the new plenary in the National Assembly 2 - the former Party House, on 2 September 2020 at 9.00 p.m. Have a good rest. [[PHONE RINGING]]
