ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-02.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Honourable Members, I suggest that a small change in the agenda for today, point three, be point two, point two, respectively, to become point three. Please, voting mode. [[(Noise and lines:) Not heard! (Noise and lines:)]] Can't you hear it? I suggested a change of seats to point two and point three. Vote 162 MPs: 130 against 6, abstention 26. The motion is accepted. I'll introduce you to a message: On 30 June 2020, the National Assembly provided the draft and adopted by the Economic Social Council on the main priorities in the draft strategic framework of the European Union on Safety and Health at Work 2021. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the material was provided to the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Health and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds and was available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Let's start with: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR HELPING EARTH PRODUCERS. This report belongs to the Committee on Agriculture and Food. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Bellova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-02.u2	Dear Mr. Chairman, I ask for a procedure for admission in the hall of Dr. Lozana Vasileva, Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-02.u3	I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. They voted 153 MPs: 143, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-02.u4	♪ I can't believe on the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on a bill amending and supplementing the Agricultural Support Act No 054-01-58, submitted by Maria Belova and a group of MPs on 26 June 2020. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 30 June 2020, discussing the quoted bill. The Commission's work was attended by: the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry: Dr. Lozana Vasileva, Deputy Minister; Ginka Panaretova, Acting Director of the European Union Legal Activities and Law Directorate; and experts. On behalf of the importers, the draft was presented by the President of the Commission, Maria Belova, who explained that the changes relate to the adoption of Regulation (EU) 2018/872 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 June 2020 amending Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013 as regards a special measure for granting exceptional temporary support by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) in response to the outbreak of COVID-19. The said Regulation created the possibility for Member States to sign and implement a new measure for granting exceptional temporary support under the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) under the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), and the support may not exceed 2% of the total EAFRD contribution to the Rural Development Programme. The measure will allow the available funds under the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020 to be supported by both farmers and small and medium-sized enterprises engaged in processing, marketing or development of agricultural products in order to ensure continuity of their business. Member States should focus support on the beneficiaries most affected by the COVID-19 crisis and, on the basis of available evidence, lay down objective and non-discriminatory eligibility conditions and, where deemed appropriate by the Member State concerned, objective and non-discriminatory selection criteria. The aid shall take the form of a one-off payment to be paid by 30 June 2021 on the basis of support applications approved by the competent authority by 31 December 2020. A subsequent reimbursement by the Commission will be carried out in accordance with the appropriations and provided that funding is available. The amount of payment may be differentiated by categories of beneficiaries in accordance with objective and non-discriminatory criteria. The maximum amount of aid shall not exceed EUR 7000 per farmer and EUR 50,000 per small or medium-sized undertaking. In this regard, the Bill is regulated the possibility of implementing the new measure through the Integrated Administration and Control System and a legal basis for issuing a regulation for its implementation. In the subsequent discussion by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, the MPs introduced the way they plan to implement the scheme. They have stated that they are making efforts to develop the regulation, which will determine the terms and conditions for the implementation of the measure, within a short period of time, so that assistance can reach farmers as quickly as possible. From the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria (BSP), they said they would support the bill by insisting that the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry should inform the MPs in due time about the planned allocation of funds by sector. Following the debates held, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 18 votes for abstention and non-restraint proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Agricultural Support Act, No 054-01-58, submitted by Maria Belova and a group of MPs on 26 June 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-02.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Belova. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Colleagues, I don't see anyone who wants to make speeches. I am putting an end to the debate and putting to the vote the draft to be discussed. Vote 150 MPs: for 149, there is no abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Belova's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-02.u6	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Since the adoption of a first vote on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Assistance Act, No 054-01-58, no specific proposals for amendment and supplementing it were received, please on the basis of Article 054-01-58. 80, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to hold the two votes of the Draft in one sitting.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-02.u7	Thank you. I shall put the proposal to the vote. Vote 139 MPs: 138, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Belova, please proceed with the second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-02.u8	"Repair for amendment and supplement of the Agricultural Support Act'. ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9a, t. 2 the words "s 33 and 34' are replaced by § 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9b is created t. 3: "3." The integrated administration and control system under the regulation on the measure under art. 39b of Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-02.u9	Thank you. Statements, coworkers? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the name of the Import Act and the content of § 1 and § 2 by importer. Vote 138 MPs: 138, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. We continue with the next item on the agenda: PROJECT OF THE COMMISSION'S DECISION TO ACCEPT PROCEDURAL RULES OF CONDITIONS AND OF THE CANDIDATE FOR AN ANALYSIS AND ASSESSMENT OF THE FINANCIAL MARKET RISKS, COMPLETION OF THE SUPERVISION PRACTICE AND PROTECTION OF THE The Committee on Budget and Finance is the importer. You have the floor to present the draft decision, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-02.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe on a draft decision adopting Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for the proposal of a candidate for a Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission in charge of management and of a candidate for a member of the Financial Supervision Commission supporting its policy on analysis and assessment of risks on the financial markets, improvement of supervisory practice and protection of investors' interests, insured and insured persons, presentation, public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Budget and Finance Commission, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly At a meeting held on 24 June 2020, the Budget and Finance Committee discussed rules of procedure for holding a public procedure under art. 93, para. 7 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly for the election of Vice-President of the C.F.R., Head of Management, Insurance Supervision and Member of the Financial Supervision Commission, supporting its policy on analysis and assessment of risks in the financial markets, improving supervisory practice and protecting the interests of investors, insured and insured persons. The adoption of rules of procedure is necessary because of: - the end of 24.01.2020 of Ms. Iliana Hristova's term of office as Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission, head of the Management Board, who completed the earlier terminated six-year term of Ms. Ralitsa Agine-Guri; - the early termination of Mr. Vladimir Savov's term of office on 22.01.2020 due to his withdrawal as a member of the C.F.R. on 20.01.2020. Mr. Savov's six-year term expired on 24.01.2020. In accordance with art. 5, para. 2 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act, the National Assembly should elect a new Vice-President and a member of the Financial Supervision Commission. After the discussion, the Committee on Budget and Finance with 20 votes in favour, without abstention and abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to examine and adopt the following draft decision: Project! DECISION adopting Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for the proposal of a candidate for a Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission, responsible for management and of a candidate for a member of the Financial Supervision Commission, supporting its policy on the analysis and assessment of risks in the financial markets, improving supervisory practice and protecting investors' interests, insured and insured persons, presentation, public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Budget and Finance Commission, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to art. 5, para. 2 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act and art. 93, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED It shall adopt Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for the proposal of a candidate for a Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission, responsible for management and of a candidate for a member of the Financial Supervision Commission, supporting its policy on analysis and assessment of risks in the financial markets, improving supervisory practice and protecting investors' interests, insured and insured persons, presentation, public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Budget and Finance Commission, and the procedure for selection by the National Assembly. I. Proposal of a candidate for a Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission, responsible for management and of a candidate for a member of the Financial Supervision Commission, supporting its policy on analysis and assessment of risks on the financial markets, improving supervisory practice and protecting investors' interests, insured and insured persons, and presenting their documents 1. The proposals for individual candidates shall be submitted in writing by the President of the Financial Supervision Commission to the Budget and Finance Committee through the President of the National Assembly within 5 days of the adoption of these Rules of Procedure by the National Assembly. 2. The proposals shall contain written reasons that justify the good professional reputation of the applicant. The following documents shall apply to each proposal: (a) the written consent of the applicant to be proposed for the position in the template. (a) Annex 1 to the decision; (b) Declaration under art. 4, para. 1 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act on the existence of Bulgarian citizenship "Annex No 2 to the Decision; (c) written consent of the applicant under art. 27, para. 2 of the Act for Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army according to the model "Annex 3" to the Decision; (d) a detailed CV; (e) certified by the applicant a copy of a diploma for completed higher education with a minimum degree of qualification in the field of economics, finance, law, mathematics, informatics and other appropriate for the supervision and regulation of the non-banking financial sector speciality; (f) documents certifying that the proposed candidate has a good reputation, knowledge, skills and professional experience and meets the requirement for work and/or service in the speciality of not less than 5 years for the last 10 years; the work and/or service experience in the speciality must be acquired according to the requirements of art. 4, para. 2 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act. 3. The circumstances of art. 4, para. 3, p. 1 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act shall be established by the administration of the National Assembly. II. Public disclosure of documents 1. The proposals together with the documents attached to them shall be published on a specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly no later than 7 days before the hearing. The publication of the proposals and documents shall be carried out in accordance with the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act. 2. Non-profit legal entities registered for public use and professional organisations may submit opinions to the Committee on Budget and Finance not later than three days before the hearing of the candidates, including questions to be addressed to the Commission on Budget and Finance. 3. The media may send questions to the Committee on Budget and Finance to the candidates to be asked. Anonymous opinions and alerts shall not be considered. 4. Opinions and questions shall be sent by post to the following address: gr. Sofia, Pl. "Knyaz Aleksandar I" No 1, Budget and Finance Committee, or by e-mail: budget@parliament.bg. Opinions and questions shall be published on the specialized thematic website of the National Assembly, subject to the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act and the Classified Information Protection Act. III. Perform a preliminary check under the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army 1. Candidates shall be checked for belonging to the bodies referred to in art. 1 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The request for prior verification under art. 27, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army are made by the President of the Committee on Budget and Finance. 2. The results of the verification shall be published on the specialized thematic site on the website of the National Assembly. IV. Hearing of candidates 1. Before hearing the proposed candidates, the Budget and Finance Committee shall verify the documents submitted and whether the candidates meet the requirements for taking up the relevant position. 2. The hearing is held in an open meeting of the Committee on Budget and Finance, which is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. 3. Each candidate shall be submitted by the Chair of the Financial Supervision Commission "up to two minutes per candidate. The presentation also includes details of specific preparation, motivation, public reputation and public support for the applicant. 4. Each candidate shall present his or her concept of the activity of the portfolio in the Financial Supervision Commission for which he or she is proposed by the Chair of the Financial Supervision Commission within 20 minutes of a candidate. 5. The Committee on Budget and Finance shall hold debates on the proposals made. Members of the National Assembly shall place their questions separately to each of the candidates within two minutes of a Member of the National Assembly. Upon completion of the questions asked to each candidate by all Members of the National Assembly, he shall answer within 10 minutes. 6. The President of the Committee on Budget and Finance shall present in summary the opinions and questions of the persons referred to in art. 93, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, to which no reply has been received within two minutes each. 7. The applicant's reply to the submitted opinions and the questions raised within 10 minutes. 8. The Commission may request additional information from both the applicant and the relevant competent authority. 9. A full stenographic protocol is drawn up from the hearing, which is published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly. 10. The Commission on the basis of art. 93, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall draw up a report from the hearing of the candidates. The report shall be accompanied by a draft selection decision for each candidate. 11. The refusal of a candidate to participate in the hearing shall not suspend the procedure with regard to the candidate for the other position. V. Election of a candidate for Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission, Head of the Management Board and of a candidate for a member of the Financial Supervision Commission, supporting its policy on analysis and assessment of risks on the financial markets, improvement of supervisory practice and protection of investors' interests, insured and insured persons of the National Assembly 1. The sitting is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. The proposed candidates are present at the meeting by decision of the National Assembly. 2. The National Assembly shall hear in the summary the report submitted by the Committee on Budget and Finance. 3. Each candidate shall be represented by the applicant within two minutes. 4. Debate on the nominations under the Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly shall be held. 5. The vote is evident through the computerised voting system. 6. A candidate who has received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. 7. If a candidate does not receive the necessary votes or refuses to participate in the election before voting on his candidacy, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure for the position concerned. VI. Obligation to declare incompatibility under art. 35, para. 1, t. 1 and a change in the declared circumstances under art. 35, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on Countering Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property 1. Upon completion of the selection procedure under Section V, the elected Vice-President, respectively a member of the Financial Supervision Commission shall submit a declaration of incompatibility under art. 35, para. 1, t. 1 of the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property in connection with art. 4, para. 3, p. 2? 7 and para. 4 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act in accordance with Annex 4 to the Decision. 2. In the event of a change in the declared circumstances of the declaration referred to in point (a) of paragraph 1, the customs authorities of the Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the European Union of the other Member States of the European Union of the other Member States of the European Union of the European Union and of the other Member States of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union, of the one part, of the one part, of the other part, of the other part, of the European Union, of the other part, of the European Union, of the other part, of the other part, of the European Union, of the other part, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the one part, of the other part, of the other part, and of the other part, of the Republic of the other part, of the other part, of the Union, of the The report shall follow the attached Annexes 1 and 2, 2, 3, 4 and 5. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-02.u11	And they are an integral part of the Decision. Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Colleagues, you have a say in this. I don't see anyone who wants to make a statement, and we're going to move on to a vote. I put to the vote your proposals Project for a decision, together with the Annexes of 1 "5" which are part of the Decision. They voted 121 MPs: 121, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Let's continue with: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR PATIENTS AND THE REGISTERATION OF AIR MODELS. Importer suppose the Council of Ministers, 4 February 2020 You have the floor, dear Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-02.u12	Colleagues, on the basis of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I request permission in the plenary hall of Lilia Ivanova, Deputy Minister of Economy, Silvana Lyubenova, Director of the Directorate of the Ministry of Economy, Desislava Georgieva, Head of Department, and by the Patent Office of Silvia Berkova, Secretary-General.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-02.u13	Thank you. I shall put the proposal to the vote. They voted 107 MPs: for 107 against and abstentions there is no. The motion is accepted. Please invite those admitted to the courtroom. Please provide the Economic Policy and Tourism Commission Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-02.u14	♪ I can't believe under the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Patents and Registration of Useful Models, No 002-01-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 February 2020. The Commission on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting, held on 24 June 2020, examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Patents and Registration of Useful Models, No 002-01-11. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Economy: Lilia Ivanova Deputy Minister, Silvana Lyubenova Director of the Department of Technology Harmonization and Consumer Policy and Desislava Georgieva Head of the Department of Establishment and Services and by the Patent Office of the Republic of Bulgaria: Silvia Berkova-Donkova Secretary General, and Olya Dimitrova Director of the Directorate; by the Confederation of Employers and Industrialists in Bulgaria: Radka Yosifova Head of Action Legally; by the Association of Industrial Property Representatives Vasil Pavlov and Attorney Magdalena Radulova. The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Ivanova. According to the importer, the objectives of the proposed bill are: - alignment of the rules for the conduct of an industrial property representative business in accordance with Decision No 704 of the Council of Ministers; - in the interests of clarity and predictability, so that individuals who are not specialists in the field of intellectual property protection can exercise their rights under this law easily and effectively; - ensuring transparency and improving the quality and speed of provision of services by the Patent Office; - the introduction of a mechanism for the protection of the interests of consumers of services provided by persons and associations operating under an industrial property representative; - filling existing gaps in the regulations relating to industrial property representation; - the fulfilment of the obligations of the Republic of Bulgaria arising from the law of the European Union in respect of the Protocol on the Pre-execution of the Agreement on the Single Patent Court and Regulation (EU) 2019/933. In order to achieve those objectives, the Bill provides for the establishment of a new chapter of industrial property representatives, which comprehensively regulates all matters relating to the exercise of the industrial property representation activity, the special rules for the entry of those persons, companies or associations in the registers, the issuance of a certificate, suspension and termination of the activity, the discharge from the register and the revocation of the issued certificate. The proposed bill also addresses other issues related to overcoming existing legislative gaps in procedures, speeding up the process of registration and acquisition of rights, strengthening legal protection, optimizing processes and shortening some of the deadlines. A mechanism is in place to protect the interests of users of services, to be provided by lawyers and representatives of industrial property. To this end, the introduction of compulsory insurance is proposed for those persons. The insurance will ensure that liability is covered for the damage that may result from unlawful actions or inactions in or in connection with the performance of the obligations of persons representing industrial property. The minimum insurance amount per insurance cover is intended to be 20 thousand. lv. And 60,000. lv. for all insurance events for the life of the insurance. The proposed changes extend the circle of persons who can perform representation before the Patent Office with lawyers who have acquired the right to operate under the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Court of Justice. The extension of the range of persons able to represent the Patent Office will lead to competition on the market of this service, to an increase in the quality of its provision, to lower costs for consumers. New corresponding amendments to the Law on Marks and Geographical Indications, the Law on Industrial Design and the Law on Topology of Integrated Circuits are proposed. According to the importer, the bill will have no direct or indirect impact on the state budget. A partial preliminary impact assessment as well as those required under art. 76 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The bill does not create any new regulatory regimes. The changes do not alter the existing regimes and services in substance, as the regime for the acquisition of professional qualifications of industrial property representatives is maintained by the current regulation. In a written opinion, a group of industrial property representatives insist that their profession be regulated by a separate law. They strongly object to the possibility that lawyers who are not registered as representatives of industrial property perform representation in front of the Patent Office, as they place in inequalities people with different education and professional training, giving priority to one another at the expense. The opinion suggests that industrial property representatives may not be members of non-industrial property representatives. The Association of Employers' Organizations in Bulgaria believes that the proposed bill will seriously harm the economic interests of their companies and organizations and will undermine Bulgaria's image as a country with a good investment climate. The Patent Office defended the Bill with the reasons that a large part of the proposals of the representatives of industrial property are reflected in it, and that you do not need to take an examination to represent the applicants and holders of brands in front of the Patent Office. Following the conclusion of the discussion and the results vote: the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism adopted the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Patents and Registration of Useful Models, No 002-01-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 February 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-02.u15	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Who will present the First Voting Report by the Committee on Legal Affairs? Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-02.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Patents and Registration of Useful Models, No 002-01-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 February 2020. At its meeting held on 4 March 2020, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Patents and Registration of Useful Models, No 002-01-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 February 2020. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Economy: Mrs. Eliza Dilova, State Expert at the Directorate, Technical Harmonization and Consumer Policy.The Patent Office: Mrs. Sylvia Berkova-Donkova, Secretary General, and Mrs. Veronica Todorova, Director of the Directorate of Administrative and Legal Activities and International Cooperation. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mrs. Berkova-Donkova, who stated that it aims to bring the rules for carrying out business activities under the Industrial Property Representation in accordance with the Law on limitation of administrative regulation and administrative control of business. The bill overcomes the existing gaps in the regulations concerning the registration proceedings in the Register of Industrial Property Representatives and the issuance of a certificate, the suspension and termination of business, the deletion from the register and the nullification of a issued certificate. It is envisaged that the administration will collect in a professional capacity all necessary documents and information available to it or to another body, such as the registers of industrial property representatives and the companies and associations of such representatives to be maintained under the Law on the limitation of administrative regulation and administrative control of business. The Law shall specify the provisions relating to the registration of European patents and specify the conditions for carrying out a joint activity under the Industrial Property Representation through companies established under the Commercial Law or the Law on Obligations and Contracts. The circle of persons who may hold representation before the Patent Office in relation to the protection of industrial property sites shall be extended, allowing lawyers and legal associations registered in the relevant Bar Associations to hold an Industrial Property Representation without having to enter into the Register of Industrial Property Representatives. The bill provides for an obligation to enter into an insurance policy for professional liability to ensure liability for the damage that may result from unlawful actions or inactions in or in connection with the performance of the obligations of persons representing industrial property. The transitional and final provisions of the Bill provide for similar amendments to the Law on Marks and Geographical Indications, the Law on Industrial Design and the Law on Topology of Integrated Circuits. During the discussion of the bill took part the MPs Christian Mitev and Todor Bajchev. Mr. Mitev said he would support the proposed bill because the proposed amendments are useful and noted that the amendments should have been made with the adoption of the new Law on Trademarks and Geographical Indications. Mr. Baychev said he would not support the Bill because it creates conditions for reducing the quality of the offered service and added that the European Patent Office also includes lawyers, but only those who have special technical or natural knowledge. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 12 votes for the Council, with no objection, and 6 votes abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for amendment and supplement to the Law on Patents and Registration of Useful Models, No 002-01-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 February 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-02.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. I open the debate, you have the floor to speak. Colleagues, I don't see anyone who wants to make speeches. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Patents and Registration of Useful Models, No 002-01-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 February 2020. Voted 103 MPs: 103, against and abstention. The bill has been passed.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-02.u18	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-02.u19	Procedure Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-02.u20	Colleagues, procedure. On the basis of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I propose an extension of the time limit for written proposals of the first-voting Draft, No 002-01-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 February 2020, by three weeks.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-02.u21	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Any other opinions? I won't. Please agree with the proposal to extend the deadline to vote. Vote 108 MPs: 108 against and abstention no. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme, in particular of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development and Rural Development (EAFRD) and of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) and of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) and of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) of the European Agricultural Fund for Mr. Boychev, introduce the MPs to the Energy Commission Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-02.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Intergovernmental Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Hellenic Republic on Gas Interconnection, Greece, Bulgaria (Project IGB), signed in Sofia on 10 October 2019, No 002-02-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 June 2020. At its regular meeting held on 30 June 2020, the Energy Committee examined and voted on the bill referred to above. The meeting was attended by Ms. Temenuzhka Petkova, Minister of Energy. The project "Interest gas connection Greece "Bulgaria" (Project IGB) provides for the construction of a pipeline that will directly connect the national gas networks of the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Bulgaria and will also connect with the TAP (Trans Adriatic Pipeline). The project was declared a national object and a site under decisions of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria No 615 of 14 July 2009 and No 452 of 7 June 2012. ... [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-02.u23	Quiet and attention, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-02.u24	...as well as under Law 4001/2011 of the Greek Republic's legislation. It also has the status of a project of common interest under Regulation No 347/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2013 on guidelines for trans-European energy infrastructure and repealing Decision No 1364/2006/EC as well as amending Regulations (EC) No 713/2009, (EC) No The IGB pipeline will have a major strategic role and the direct effect will be in achieving a real diversification of natural gas sources for Bulgaria and for the natural gas market in Southeast Europe. The implementation of the project will open an additional route to the Southern Gas Corridor between Southeast Europe and Central Eastern Europe markets and thus provide access to alternative routes and sources of gas supply. As a result of its implementation, as part of the development of the Southern Gas Corridor, Bulgaria and its neighbouring countries will have access to alternative supplies from the Caspian region, as well as existing or future liquefied gas terminals. The project for the construction of the gas interconnection Greece "IGI Poseidon" is an investment company registered in the Hellenic Republic, with shareholders of the Greek public gas corporation DEPA S.A. .. 50%, and Edison International Holding - 50%, fully controlled by the Italian energy group Edison Spa. Taking into account the importance of the project IGB and for the needs of the economic appropriateness of the project, the signing of an Intergovernmental Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Hellenic Republic on Intersystem gas connection Greece The main reason for its signature is the attachment of the applicable tax regime and, in particular, the corporate tax levels in both countries to the rates in force at the time of the conclusion of the Agreement, which aims to establish the predictability of the cash flows for shareholders. The expected result of the introduction of such a support measure to the project is to stimulate investment and motivate shareholders in the project to move to the actual start of the construction, which results to date. Furthermore, the fixing of foreseeable tax levels will achieve cost optimization, which will directly affect the transmission price and allow the application of a competitive transmission tariff, which will make maintaining capacity in the pipeline more attractive for future gas traders. The introduction of competitive tariffs is a prerequisite for creating a more competitive environment on the Bulgarian gas market. The measure for the stabilisation of the tax-law regime of the pipeline for a period of 25 years has been adopted as compatible with art. 107, para. 3 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union pursuant to Decision C (2018) 7295 of the European Commission of 8 November 2018 as it meets the requirements of this Decision. 3.8. of the Communication from the Commission - Guidelines on State aid for environmental protection and energy for the period 2014 - 2020 (2014/C 200/01). An intergovernmental agreement also provides for ensuring a clear distribution of tax profits between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Hellenic Republic, thereby reducing the risk of disputes between investors and the State, as well as between the two participating countries. The final approach to the allocation of the project's revenue is territorial, where the total combined profit of the natural gas pipeline transmission activity under IGB is divided between the two countries in proportion to the length of its route in each of the two territories. The pipeline has a total length of approximately 182 km, of which 151 km on Bulgarian territory. By Decision No 290 of 22 May 2019 on the basis of art. 8, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 9, para. 3 of the International Contracts Act of the Republic of Bulgaria The Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria approved the draft Intergovernmental Agreement and authorised the Minister of Energy to hold the negotiations and to sign the same on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on condition of subsequent ratification. As a result of the vote, the Energy Committee with 15 votes for the Energy Committee, without the opposition and the abstention, proposed to the National Assembly that the Draft for the ratification of the Intergovernmental Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Hellenic Republic on gas interconnection Greece and Bulgaria (Project IGB), signed in Sofia on 10 October 2019, No 002-02-7, submitted on 18 June 2020 by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-02.u25	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. From the Budget and Finance Committee, who will present the report? Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-02.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Intergovernmental Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Hellenic Republic on the gas interconnection between Greece and Bulgaria (Project IGB), signed in Sofia on 10 October 2019, No 002-02-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 June 2020. At a meeting held on 24 June 2020, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law on the ratification of the Intergovernmental Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Hellenic Republic on the gas interconnection between Greece and Bulgaria (Project IGB), signed in Sofia on 10 October 2019, No 002-02-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 June 2020. The meeting was attended by: Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova Minister and Mrs. Veneta Tsvetkova Director of the Energy Projects and International Cooperation Directorate. The bill was presented by Ms. Temenuzhka Petkova, Minister of Energy. The project "Interest gas connection Greece "Bulgaria" (Project IGB) provides for the construction of a pipeline that will directly connect the national gas networks of the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Bulgaria and will also connect with the TAP (Trans Adriatic Pipeline). The project was declared as a national object and as a site under the decisions of the Council of Ministers No 615 of 2009 and No 452 of 2012, as well as under Law 4001 of 2011 of the law of the Hellenic Republic. It also has the status of a project of common interest, pursuant to Regulation No 347/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2013 and is a major priority project under the SESSEC initiative on interconnection of gas in Central and Southern Europe. The IGB pipeline will have a major strategic role and the direct effect will be in achieving a real diversification of natural gas sources for Bulgaria and for the natural gas market in Southeast Europe. [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-02.u27	Colleagues, may I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-02.u28	The main motive for the signing of an Intergovernmental Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Hellenic Republic on the gas interconnection between Greece and Bulgaria (Project IGB) is the attachment of the applicable tax regime and, in particular, the levels of corporate tax in both countries to the rates in force at the time of the conclusion of the Agreement. The intergovernmental agreement also provides for ensuring a clear distribution of tax profits between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Hellenic Republic, thereby reducing the risk of disputes between investors and the State, as well as between the two participating countries. The final approach to the allocation of the project's revenue is territorial, where the total combined profit of the natural gas pipeline transmission activity under IGB is divided between the two countries in proportion to the length of its route in each of the two territories. The pipeline has a total length of approximately 182 km, of which 151 km on Bulgarian territory. By Decision No 290 of the Council of Ministers of 22 May 2019 on the basis of art. 8, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 9, para. 3 of the International Contracts Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Council of Ministers approved the draft Intergovernmental Agreement and authorised the Minister of Energy to hold the negotiations and sign the Agreement on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on condition of subsequent ratification. On the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 5, 7 and 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria The Intergovernmental Agreement is subject to ratification by the National Assembly. Following the discussion, the members of the Budget and Finance Committee expressed their principled support for the proposed bill by concluding its discussion with the following results: with 20 votes for the Council of Ministers, without abstention and without abstention, the Committee of Budget and Finance proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote the Draft for ratification of the Intergovernmental Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Hellenic Republic concerning the gas interconnection of Greece and Bulgaria (Project IGB), signed in Sofia on 10 October 2019, No 002-02-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 June 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-02.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Mrs. Alexandrova from the Committee on Legal Affairs, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-02.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! ♪ I can't believe on the first vote on the Draft Draft Law on the ratification of the Intergovernmental Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Hellenic Republic on the gas interconnection Greece, Bulgaria (Project IGB), signed in Sofia on 10 October 2019, No 002-02-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 June 2020. At its meeting held on 24 June 2020, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law on ratification of the Intergovernmental Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Hellenic Republic on Gas Interconnection, Greece, Bulgaria (Project IGB), signed in Sofia on 10 October 2019, No 002-02-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 June 2020. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Energy: Mr. Zhecho Stankov Deputy Minister and Mrs. Veneta Tsvetkova Director of the Energy Projects and International Cooperation Directorate. The bill was presented by Mr. Stankov, who pointed out that it is intended to build a pipeline that will directly connect the national transmission networks of the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Bulgaria and will be connected to an existing pipeline. The objective is to establish the predictability of the cash flows for the shareholders of the project company by fixing the corporate tax levels in both countries to the rates in force at the time of the conclusion of the Agreement. The adoption of the Agreement will also allow the application of a competitive transmission tariff, which will increase the attractiveness of the pipeline for future gas traders. The Agreement provides for the allocation of revenue from the draft on a territorial principle, whereby the total profit from the transmission of natural gas under the pipeline is distributed between the two countries in proportion to the length of its route in each of the two territories. National Representative Aleksandar Ivanov pointed out that the political party GERB parliamentary group will support the Bill, noting the positive importance of the planned light tax regime and adding that it will reduce the price of gas production and domestic consumption. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 18 votes for the Council of Ministers, without abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for the ratification of the Intergovernmental Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Hellenic Republic on the gas interconnection Greece and Bulgaria (Project IGB), signed in Sofia on 10 October 2019, No 002-02-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 June 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-02.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. I'm opening the debate. Here you go, guys. The word will be given in the order of the recordings. I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a bill for the ratification of the Intergovernmental Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Hellenic Republic on the gas interconnection between Greece and Greece (Project IGB), signed in Sofia on 10 October 2019, No 002-02-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 June 2020. 135 MPs voted: 134, none, abstention 1. The bill has been passed. Procedure Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-02.u32	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. President, on the basis of our Rules of Procedure, please put the vote to the adoption of the newly adopted Bill at second reading. We have seen that there are no speeches, no requests for amendments to the Law. I'm asking you to put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-02.u33	I shall put the proposal to the vote. Vote 126 MPs: 125, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Mr. Boychev, you're welcome to present the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-02.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! THE LAW OF THE on ratification of the Intergovernmental Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Hellenic Republic Intersystem gas connection Greece. Bulgaria (Project IGB), signed in Sofia on 10 October 2019. A single member. Ratification of the Intergovernmental Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Hellenic Republic on the gas interconnection Greece "Bulgaria" (Project IGB), signed in Sofia on 10 October 2019
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-02.u35	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the name of the Bill and the content of a single member. Vote 131 MPs: for 131, against and abstention there is no. The bill was passed at second reading. Today's agenda is exhausted. Parliamentary Control Communication on 3 July 2020, Friday: 1. Tourism Minister Nikolina Angelkova will answer three questions from the MPs Ivan Valentinov Ivanov, Nikolay Tishev and Dora Yankova. 2. The Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov will answer two questions from the MPs Evdokiya Asenova and Lyubomir Bonev and Stoyan Bozhinov. 3. The Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will answer four questions from the MPs Evdokia Asenova and Veska Nencheva, Anna Slavova and Kristina Sidorova, and Irena Anastasova two questions. 4. Economy Minister Emil Karanikolov will answer two questions from the MPs Rumen Gechev and Dora Yankova. 5. Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will answer a question from the MPs Georgi Gokov, Manol Genov, Veska Nencheva, Dragomir Stoinev and Georgi Tarnovalyski. 6. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova will answer four questions from the MPs Devdet Chakarov and Hairi Sadakov, Boryana Georgieva, Milko Nedyalkov and Lyubomir Bonev. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev of two questions from the MPs Nadia Klisurska, Ilian Timchev and Kristina Sidorova, and two questions with written answer from the MPs Ercan Ebatin and Yavor Bozhankov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva to a question from the MPs Polina Shishkova and Kristina Sidorova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova to two questions from the MPs Dragomir Stoinev and Nikolai Ivanov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on two questions with written answer from the MPs Georgi Gokov and Rumen Gechev; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov of a question by the National Representative Yavor Bojankov. Due to the use of annual leave in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister for Youth and Sports Mr. Krasen Kralev will not participate. Due to the exhaustion of the agenda, I am adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
