ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-24.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Honourable Members, the Conference of Presidents has reached an agreement on some changes to our Programme for Work this week. I will introduce you to the Work Programme this week, as decided and proposed to the Conference of Presidents: "1." Draft decision adopting procedural rules on the terms and conditions for the proposal of candidates for Chair and members of the Commission for the protection of personal data, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, as well as the procedure for selection by the National Assembly. Importer of Internal Security and Public Order on 3 December 2019 2. Draft decision for a proposal to the President of the Republic of Bulgaria for medal awards for merit. Importer supplied by the Committee on Education and Science on 18 June 2020. 3. Parliamentary Control: Debate on asking by the MPs Iskren Veselinov and Alexander Siddi to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva on fragmented legislation in social policy. The proposal is to be the first item for Thursday, 25 June 2020. 4. Second vote on the Bill for Supplement to the Law on the Bulgarian Red Cross. The representatives of the National Assembly Alexander Nenkov and Iskren Veselinov received the first vote on 11 June 2020. Point 2 for Thursday, 25 June 2020 5. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Transport Act. The Council of Ministers received a first vote on 23 January 2020. Point 3 for Thursday, 25 June 2020 6. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2020. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 18 June 2020. Point 1 for Friday 26 June 2020 7. Parliamentary control "Friday 26 June 2020', following the conclusion of the legislative part of the Programme for the meeting, including: 7.1. Debates on a question by MPs Rumen Gechev and Georgi Svilenski to Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov concerning a new concept of taxation of gambling games, declared by Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov in March 2016; 7.2. Answers to questions and I shall put to the vote the proposed work programme of the National Assembly for that period. They voted 176 MPs: 148, none, abstention 28. The motion is accepted. There is a proposal for inclusion on the agenda in accordance with art. 53, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. National Representative Cornelia Nino proposes to be included as point 1 for Thursday, 25 June 2020, on the basis of art. 53, para. 3 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly: Hearing of Prime Minister Boyko Borisov regarding the disease of small ruminants. Mrs. Ninova, please present the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-24.u2	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I submitted a proposal on the grounds of art. 113 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly for Hearing Prime Minister Boyko Borisov on the following case. In June 2018, the government declared an outbreak of small ruminants disease in six settlements in the districts of Yambol and Burgas. They were killed, killed tens of thousands of animals. [[Noise.]] The livelihood of hundreds of families was wiped out. The area is already deserted. Last Friday, during the declaration on behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, the Minister of Agriculture replied that the Prime Minister has taken measures by changing the Minister of Agriculture, the Minister of Interior and the Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency and thus the responsibility has been incurred. No, honourable Members and Bulgarian citizens, the responsibility has not been suffered because on 17 June 2020, the Supreme Administrative Court ruled by a final decision, which is not subject to appeal, that in the case registered by one of the farmers of Bolyarovo, no evidence of a plague on small ruminants in Yambolsko and Burgas was provided. And that's not subject to appeal! Even the two animals found to be infected are still alive and well today. And then, and now we claim that there was no plague in these areas. And then, and now you're accusing us of being wrong. But here today, the one who must answer our questions is the Prime Minister, because of the model of the management of a crime, the change of a minister and the continuation of the same needs to be put to an end. We want the Prime Minister to come to a hearing...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-24.u3	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-24.u4	Dear Mr. Chairman, just to announce and publicly: I have requested the transcripts of the Conference of Presidents' talks. Then, at the time, we had a very long conversation, for many days, and I want these transcripts to be exposed if the Prime Minister does not come in today or on Thursday to answer questions. Let's know who took what positions in time. From our parliamentary group we want nothing but two things: truth and justice! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-24.u5	Thank you. I shall put the proposal to the vote. Vote 168 MPs: 54, against 93, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. I'll introduce you to a few messages. Bills and draft decisions from 16 to 23 June 2020. ... [[The National Representative Maria Belova wants the floor.]] Excuse me, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-24.u6	Dear Mr. Chairman, I'm going to ask you to look into this room when I signal the requested procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-24.u7	I apologized. It was my fault. I didn't notice.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-24.u8	I'm making a remark to you in the manner of conduct. Please do not allow such insane requests in which to request a hearing of the Prime Minister for the annulment of an administrative act and for a decision of the Supreme Administrative Court. I assume you realize that if this proposal of colleagues were supported, we would be facing a situation they would want a hearing of the Prime Minister for all rejected administrative acts, and we from GERB would want for all confirmed administrative acts. This means that the Prime Minister of the country will stand all day in plenary and we will listen to him about the rejected and confirmed administrative acts by the independent judiciary. First of all, it's not serious. Secondly, colleagues, you want a hearing of the Prime Minister on the repealed order of 10 October 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-24.u9	Exactly, Mrs. Belova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-24.u10	Mr President, if Members of the National Assembly had not voted properly, respectively whether we should not have asked the Prime Minister for the confirmed order of the Food Agency, I quote: since June 2018, when the Yambol Administrative Court, the Supreme Administrative Court has confirmed the order of the Executive Director of the Food Agency, Yambol, that there has been an outbreak of small ruminants plague. Please do not allow yourself, by violating the Rules of Procedure, by violating our principles of work, to force us to vote for proposals that will in no way lead to our productive work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-24.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Belova. [[Applause from GERB.]] It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-24.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, Mr. Chairman! My procedure is the way I conduct myself. Please really do not allow such a tone to turn to you and threaten what to afford and what not to allow. I ask you not to allow Members of the National Assembly, but also to punish them when they define the speeches of fellow Members of the National Assembly as foolish or smart, as they are not the people who will determine who will speak what, how to speak it and where to speak it. What we asked of the parliamentary group is not to comment on judicial decisions, but to tell the truth from this tribune whether there was a plague or not. Given that the court says there was no plague, Mrs. Belova, I don't know who told you or you don't understand what we want. We don't want a comment on a judgment, we want this man who is responsible and is not in this room to come and explain whether there was a plague or there was no plague on the sheep to kill so many animals? [[Heckling]] My procedure, Mr President, as colleagues ask and have not understood the procedure: when the parliamentary group of GERB becomes MPs, the Chairs of Committees, and insult the Members of Parliament, the Chairs of Parliamentary Groups, to follow the Rules and to impose the corresponding penalty, at least for the Punishment. None of this tribune affords to qualify for the speeches of fellow Members, whether clever or insane. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-24.u13	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. You know my views on this. The way you're running things? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-24.u14	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Just a reminder, colleagues, that sanitary measures are not discussed because... [[Heckling]] Yes, it's a procedure as much as it was a procedure, colleagues! Again, sanitary measures are not being discussed, because whether or not there was, whether it was an outbreak, whether there were two, three, five or half questions is that if the correct sanitary measures were not taken, the whole country would be on fire. And if those measures were taken in the bird flu, we wouldn't have had a breakdown of the entire industry. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-24.u15	Thank you for finding out before I interfered. Colleagues, we continue with the announcements: Draft Law on the ratification of the Intergovernmental Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Hellenic Republic on the gas interconnection between Greece and Bulgaria (Project IGB), signed in Sofia on 10 October 2019. The Committee on Energy is the lead. It has been allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Legal Affairs. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2020. Importer "The Council of Ministers." The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. Draft decision for a proposal to the President of the Republic of Bulgaria for medal awards for merit. Importer of the Committee on Education and Science. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Taxes and Fees. Importer? the People's Representative Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of Montenegro on International Road Transport of Passengers and Goods, signed on 17 June 2019 in Sofia. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications is the lead. A bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Hellenic Republic on the regulation of rail cross-border traffic signed on 26 February 2020 in the city of Alexandroupolis, the Hellenic Republic. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications is the lead. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Preschool and School Education Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Education and Science is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government and the Committee on Budget and Finance. Proposal for a debate on questions No 054-05-27 by the MPs Iskren Veselinov and Alexander Siddy to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy on fragmented social policy legislation. Importer is the People's Representative Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. Proposal for discussions on questions No 054-05-26 of 3 June 2020 by the MPs Rumen Gechev and Georgi Svilenski to the Minister of Finance Mr. Vladislav Goranov on a new concept of taxation of gambling games, declared by the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov in March 2016. A bill implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/125 of 16 January 2019 of the European Parliament and of the Council on trade in certain goods which could be used for the application of the death penalty, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. Importer of the Council of Ministers. There's a commission assignment. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Services Act. Importer? the People's Representative Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports and the Committee on Legal Affairs. On the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I inform the Members of the National Assembly that on 23 June 2020 a Decree No 122 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria was received under art. 101 of the Constitution, by which the Act amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior was adopted by the National Assembly on 11 June 2020. It is entrusted to the lead Committee on Internal Security and Public Order to report to the MPs the President's decree and the reasons for it. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria shall inform the National Assembly that: 1. In the implementation of the bilateral legal framework in the field of military cooperation between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Serbia between 22 June and 21 August 2020, military aircraft from the Republic of Bulgaria Air Force from the airport of Polkovnik-pilot Milenko Pavlovic will be conducted, Batajnitsa Air Base, Belgrade, to the 28000 Military Formation of Count Ignatevo, and vice versa. 2. By his order he has authorised the passage and residence of the following forces and funds from the armed forces of the Republic of Serbia on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria: - An-26 aircraft and up to three MiG-29 aircraft with their crew and armaments; - a helicopter with crew and without armaments of up to 35 servicemen with equipment, equipment and no weapons to provide technical assistance and removal of aircraft from the Air Force of the Republic of Serbia. The conduct of flights to military formations 28000 "Graff Ignatievo," and vice versa, is not related to military operations, preparatory actions to conduct upcoming or alleged military operations, as well as to carrying out activities to prevent military activities conducted by other (other country or organisation) armed forces. The notification was received on 19 June 2020. No 003-09-44 and granted to the Defence Committee. On 18 June 2020, two acts were submitted to the National Assembly, developed and adopted by the Economic and Social Council: 1. Opinion on the topic: The European Green Pact - Economic, Social and Environmental Challenges and Possible Solutions for Bulgaria. The material was submitted by letter to the President of the National Assembly of the following committees: the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy; the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism; the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds; the Committee on Environment and Water, the Committee on Energy; the Committee on Agriculture and Food; the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications; the Committee on Education and Science and the Committee on Foreign Policy. 2. Resolution of the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Central Bank, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions The material was provided by letter to the President of the National Assembly to the following committees: the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy; the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism; the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. The materials are also available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. We continue with the first point of the Work Programme. PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ACCEPT PERSONAL DATA, PRESENTATION AND PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF DOCUMENTS AND HEARING OF CANDIDATES IN THE COMMISSION FOR INTERNAL SECURITY AND SOCIETY Importer "The Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. Here you are, dear Mr. Nunev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-24.u16	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to offer your attention: ♪ I can't believe on draft decision adopting Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for the proposal of candidates for Chair and members of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order and the procedure for the selection by the National Assembly At a meeting held on 27 November 2019, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee discussed Rules of Procedure for conducting a public procedure under art. 93, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the election of President and Members of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data. The adoption of rules of procedure is necessary in relation to the expiry of their term of office. In accordance with art. 7, para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 8 of the Personal Data Protection Act (PDA) The National Assembly should elect a new composition of the Commission.. President and members on a proposal from the Council of Ministers. After the discussion, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 19 votes for........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Project! DECISION adopting Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for the submission of candidates for Chairman and Members of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order and the procedure for selection by the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to art. 7, para. 1 and para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 8, para. 1, para. 2 and para. 3 of the Personal Data Protection Act and art. 93, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED It shall adopt Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for the submission of candidates for Chairman and Members of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, as well as the procedure for selection by the National Assembly. I. Offering candidates for Chairman and Members of the Commission for Personal Data Protection and submission of documents to the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order 1. The proposal for candidates for President and Members of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data shall be submitted in writing by the Council of Ministers. 2. The proposal for candidates shall be accompanied by written reasons which justify the good professional reputation of the candidates. The following documents shall apply to the proposal: (a) the written consent of the applicant concerned to be proposed for the position in the model Annex 1 to the decision; (b) a declaration by the applicant concerned that he is a Bulgarian citizen according to Annex No 2 to the Decision; (c) written consent of the applicant concerned under art. 27, para. 2 of the Act for Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army according to the model Annex 3 to the Decision; (d) a detailed CV for each candidate; (e) a certified copy of the applicant concerned from a degree in computer education, by law, or an IT Master's degree; (f) documents certifying that the proposed candidate has a good reputation, knowledge, skills and professional experience and meets the requirement of service in the specialty of not less than 10 years; (g) a legal document certified by the applicant as Chairman of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data. 3. The circumstances of art. Paragraph 8 1, t. 3 of the Personal Data Protection Act shall be established by the proposer in a professional capacity. II. Public disclosure of documents 1. The proposals together with the documents attached to them shall be published on a specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly within 14 days of the hearing. The publication of the proposals and documents shall be carried out in accordance with the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act. 2. Non-profit legal entities registered for public use activities and professional organisations may submit opinions to the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order for applicants, including questions to be addressed to them no later than three days before the hearing of the candidates. 3. The mass media may send questions to the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order to the candidates to be asked. Anonymous opinions and alerts shall not be considered. 4. The opinions and questions are sent by mail to the city of Sofia, Knyaz Aleksandar I "No," Internal Security and Public Order Commission, or by e-mail: kvsor@parliament.bg. Opinions and questions shall be published on the specialized thematic website of the National Assembly, subject to the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act and the Classified Information Protection Act. III. Perform a preliminary check under the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army 1. Candidates shall be checked for belonging to the bodies referred to in art. 1 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The request for prior verification under art. 27, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army is made by the President of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. 2. The results of the verification shall be published on the specialized thematic site on the website of the National Assembly. IV. Hearing of candidates 1. Before hearing the proposed candidates, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee shall verify the documents submitted and whether the candidates meet the requirements for taking up the position concerned. 2. The hearing is held in an open session of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, which is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. 3. Each candidate shall be submitted by the Chairperson of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order up to two minutes per candidate. The presentation also includes details of specific preparation, motivation, public reputation and public support for the applicant. 4. Each candidate shall present his or her concept of the Commission's activities for the protection of personal data in the Internal Security and Public Order Committee within 7 minutes of a candidate. 5. The Committee on Internal Security and Public Order shall hold debates on the proposals made. Members of the National Assembly shall place their questions separately to each of the candidates within two minutes of a Member of the National Assembly. Upon completion of the questions asked to each candidate by all Members of the National Assembly, he shall answer within 5 minutes. 6. The President of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order shall present the views and questions of the persons referred to in Article in summary. 93, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to which no reply has been received within two minutes for each. 7. Reply to the applicant concerned on the opinions submitted and the questions raised within 5 minutes. 8. The Commission may request additional information from both the applicant and the relevant competent authority. 9. A full stenographic protocol is drawn up from the hearing, which is published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly. 10. The Commission on the basis of art. 93, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall draw up a report from the hearing of the candidates. The report shall be accompanied by a draft decision to select each of the candidates for the Chair and members of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data. 11. The refusal of a candidate to participate in the hearing shall not suspend the procedure with regard to other candidates. V. Election of President and Members of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data by the National Assembly 1. The sitting is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. The proposed candidates are present at the meeting by decision of the National Assembly. 2. The National Assembly shall hear in the summary the report submitted by the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order in one with the draft decisions for the selection of candidates. 3. Each candidate shall be represented by a representative of the applicant within 10 minutes. 4. Debate on the nominations under the Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly shall be held. 5. The vote is evident through the computerised voting system supposed first for President and Members in alphabetical order of their own names, unless the National Assembly decides otherwise. 6. A candidate who has received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. 7. If the applicant does not receive the necessary votes, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure for the respective position. VI. Obligation to declare incompatibility under art. 35, para. 1, t. 1 and a change in the declared circumstances under art. 35, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property and art. 8, para. 2 of the Personal Data Protection Act 1. Upon completion of the selection procedure under Section V, the elected President and members of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data shall submit declarations of incompatibility under art. 35, para. 1, t. 1 of the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property and under art. 8, para. 2 of the Law on the Protection of Personal Data pursuant to Annex 4 to the Decision. 2. In the event of a change in the declared circumstances of the declaration referred to in point (a) of paragraph 1, the customs authorities of the Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the European Union of the other Member States of the European Union of the other Member States of the European Union of the European Union and of the other Member States of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union, of the one part, of the one part, of the other part, of the other part, of the European Union, of the other part, of the European Union, of the other part, of the other part, of the European Union, of the other part, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the one part, of the other part, of the other part, and of the other part, of the Republic of the other part, of the other Annexes 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 to the Draft Decision shall follow.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-24.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Nunev. Honourable Members, you have the floor for speeches. Are there any speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the project presented to you in full, including Annexes 1 to 5, an integral part of the Decision to adopt Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for the proposal of candidates for President and Members of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and the hearing of candidates in the Internal Security and Public Order Committee, as well as the procedure for selection by the National Assembly. They voted 114 MPs: for 114, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-24.u18	Moving on to item two on the agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO PROPOSAL TO THE PRESENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA FOR CARRYING OUT THE MEDAL For the presentation of the report on this point, I give the floor to the President of the Committee on Education and Science Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-24.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I present to you: ♪ I can't believe on the examination of a proposal by the National Scientific and Technical Society on Deficitoscopy for the award of Senior Research Fellow Dr. Alexander Danailov Scordev with the Medal. No SG-013-00-5 of 30 January 2020 At its regular meeting held on 17 June 2020, the Committee on Education and Science examined a proposal from the National Scientific and Technical Society on Deficit Scopy for the award of Senior Research Fellow Dr. Alexander Danailov Scordev with the Medal of merit. In the meeting took part: from the Ministry of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev, Minister from the Initiative Committee of the National Scientific and Technical Society on Deficient Scopy, Professor Anastasia Tutzova, and Engineer Damian Damyanov, representatives of the media. The proposal of the Initiative Committee of the National Scientific and Technical Society on Deficitoscopy was presented by Professor Anastasia Tutzova. She noted that Senior Research Fellow Dr. Alexander Danailov is a distinguished engineer and scientist in the field of control without destruction in Bulgaria and Europe. He is the author of six monographs, more than 180 published articles, 25 textbooks, more than 25 published reports and 20 Bulgarian standards. Owns five copyright certificates for technical means of control without destruction. He has trained over 3,000 professional defectives, hundreds of engineers and other specialists. He represented and defended Bulgaria's interests in a number of specialized NGOs. Engineer Scordev is one of the main agents of control and testing without destruction. Lecturer and innovator, founder of the general theory of discipline...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Since 2005 engineer Skordev has been the head of the Certification Centre for Controls without destruction of the National Scientific and Technical Society on Deficit Scopy. He specialized in European technical legislation, radiation protection and audit of test laboratories and control bodies, requirements and application of control without destruction in nuclear energy and application of methods without destruction of cultural heritage. In conclusion, Professor Tutzova pointed out that Senior Research Fellow Dr. Alexander Skordev is a teacher of almost all working and working in the field of control without destruction in Bulgaria. The initiative committee of the Scientific and Technical Society on Deficitoscopy highly appreciates its selfless and dedicated scientific and teaching activities, its contribution to strengthening and developing civil society and the eradication of radiation accidents, as well as its great contribution to validating the authority of control without destruction and proposes that a Senior Research Fellow Dr. Alexander Skordev be awarded a medal for merit. The Committee on Education and Science received opinions from: Ministry of Education and Science; NPP Kozloduy. Kozloduy; Bulgarian Institute of Standardization; National Association Varna; Secretary General of the Scientific and Technical Union of Mechanical Engineering from 1982 to 2012; Research Institute for Bridges and Deficient Scopy. Russia, St Petersburg; State Electrical University. Russia, St Petersburg; Society of Undestructive Control. All opinions support the proposal for the award of Senior Fellow Doctor Engineer Scordev with the Medal "For Merit." The proposal contains a document for verification under the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian Army. The Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev presented the positive opinion of the Ministry. People's representative Stanislav Stanilov expressed his opinion that there are rare proposals for the award of scientists and he will be pleased to support the award of engineer Alexander Skordev. After a vote with a result: the Committee on Education and Science proposes to the National Assembly to accept the following: ? RESPONSIBILITY? for a proposal to the President of the Republic of Bulgaria for a Medal of Credit The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 11, para. 2 in relation to Art. 10, para. 1 of the Law on Orders and Medals of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED He proposed to the President of the Republic of Bulgaria to award Senior Research Fellow Dr. Alexander Danailov with a medal for his merit in the field of engineering sciences and practice as a scientist, lecturer, physicist in the field of control and testing without destruction and recognized public figure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-24.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Damyanova. Honourable Members, you have the floor for speeches. Anyone? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the draft decision for a proposal to the President of the Republic of Bulgaria for a Medal Award for merit. 110 MPs voted: 109, none, abstention 1. Here you go, Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-24.u21	Dear Mr. Chairman, I ask for a re-vote of the decision that has just been voted on.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-24.u22	Please, re-election mode. They voted 107 MPs: 107, with no objection and no abstention. The motion is accepted. Procedure Mrs. Stoyanova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-24.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I request a procedure for extending the period between the first and second reading of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Gambling Act, No 054-01-51, from 5 June 2020 with another six days.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-24.u24	I'm voting on the proposed procedure. Vote 96 MPs: 94, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Due to the exhaustion of the agenda, I close the meeting, and on tomorrow the meeting will be in accordance with the Program adopted by the National Assembly. [[PHONE RINGING]]
