ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u1	Good afternoon, fellow Members. There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Dear colleagues, I will introduce you to the National Assembly Work Programme for this week. This is the first Wednesday of the month and there are no proposals under art. 53, para. 8. Colleagues, at the Conference of Presidents, we decided to include as the first point: the Project of a Decision on a Change in the Composition and Management of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly in the Parliamentary Assembly of Francophones. This will be the first item on today's agenda. "2." Second vote on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Consumer Protection. It was introduced by the Council of Ministers on 6 November 2019. It was adopted in the first vote on 12 December 2019. 3. First vote on the bill amending and supplementing the Law on Climate Change. It was introduced by the Council of Ministers on 12 December 2019. 4. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Payment Services and Payment Systems. It was introduced by the Council of Ministers on 8 November 2019. It was adopted on the first vote on 27 November 2019. 5. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code. It was introduced by Krum Zarkov and a group of MPs on 15 January 2020. 6. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Enterprises of the Social and Solidar Economy. It was introduced by Alexander Siddy and Kalin Popovski on 14 January 2020. 7. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Currency Act. It was introduced by the Council of Ministers on 2 December 2019. It was adopted in the first vote on 16 January 2020. Point 1 for Thursday, 6 February 2020 8. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Animal Health Act. It was introduced by the Council of Ministers on 20 January 2020. It was adopted in the first vote on 23 January 2020. Point 2 for Thursday, 6 February 2020 9. First vote on the Agricultural Chain Management Bill. It was introduced by the Council of Ministers on 3 February 2020. Point 1 for Friday, 7 February 2020 10. Parliamentary control. Please vote on the so-read agenda. They voted 175 MPs: 152, none, abstention 23. The motion is accepted. You're welcome, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I understand that what I am about to say can also be qualified in relation to art. 53, para. 3 of our rules, but I prefer to say a few things in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u3	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u4	Since Siderov was expelled as Chairman of the Parliamentary Group of the former Union of United patriots, Ataka did not participate either in the country's governance or [[Calls and applause from OP]] in the manner of taking decisions in the National Assembly in the Coalition Council formats, as well as in the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u5	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u6	In this regard, I think that you should still think about the proposals that we, as MPs, are bringing to the National Assembly and they are extremely important and valuable for the current moment. I am referring to two acts which we have tabled and to which no one pays attention to them are not distributed either by committee or submitted to plenary as items on the agenda. The first of these is: "To impose a moratorium on real estate transactions with the so-called lost basis of the Ministry of Defence." And the second act that we have tabled is: the Moratorium for the cessation of imports of junk from abroad. An extremely current and important problem. We see on TV that...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u7	Thank you, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u8	Every day there are reports of rising like mushrooms dumps in the country.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u9	Thank you, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u10	I therefore ask you to pay attention to and submit these proposals equally with the other proposals and bills in plenary so that we can examine them.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u11	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. Just so you know, every MP has the right to a legislative initiative. As soon as this legislative initiative enters the Court of Justice, I shall allocate it within three days to the relevant committees. So your proposals and bills have moved them to the relevant committees. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u12	Madam President, I call on you, when a colleague comes out on this stand and starts speaking untruths, to immediately take his word away. A moment ago Mr. Shopov said that Mr. Ataka has left the government and is no longer involved in it, but only last week, Mr. Shopov, with the votes of Ataka that government was saved. So you are involved, and you are very actively involved in the country's governance. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u13	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov. Mrs. Stoyanova, come in. What procedure are you in, please? Just a simple procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u14	I'm here for a simple procedure, Madam President. Please, on the basis of art. 83 of the Rules of Procedure to put the vote to extend the period between first and second readings by seven days of the Bill amending and supplementing the Act on Independent Financial Audit. [[Replication by "BSP" for Bulgaria ":" To the Currency Act. "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u15	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Please, a voting regime on the proposal so made to extend the period between first and second readings. They voted 163 MPs: 158, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Bills and draft decisions for the period 29 January "4 February 2020': Draft Law on the ratification of the Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Kazakhstan on the transfer of convicted persons. Importer of the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Legal Affairs. A bill to amend and supplement the Penal Code. Importer - Manoil Manev and group of MPs. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Legal Affairs and to the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. It's an agricultural chain management bill. Importer of the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Agriculture and Food, the Committee on Health, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Environment and Water, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Defence is the lead. It is allocated to the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Commission, the Security Services Control Commission, the implementation and use of special intelligence tools and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Patents and Registration of Useful Models. Importer of the Council of Ministers. There's a distribution coming up. Draft decision to change the composition and direction of the permanent delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of Francophones. Importer Georgi Svilenski. Messages: On 30 January 2020, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 January 2020 to 25 January 2020 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 January 2020 to 25 January 2020 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 January 2020 to 25 January 2020 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 January 2020 to 25 January 2020. No 011-00-1 in the National Assembly received a letter from the representing Supreme Judicial Council, informing the Members that the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council at a meeting held on 23 January 2020 announced on the grounds of art. 27, para. 2 of the Law on the Judicial Authority resigned from Plamena Tsvetanova Apostolova a member of the Supreme Judicial Council elected from the quota of the National Assembly. Extracts from the Plenum decision of the Supreme Judicial Council on Protocol No 1 of the meeting held on 23 January 2020 and a copy of the resignation submitted on the grounds of art. 130, para. 8, p. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the materials were sent to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria shall inform the National Assembly that: 1. For the period from 10 February to 25 March 2020, a joint preparation of the Joint Command of the Special Operations of the Bulgarian Army and Forces for Special Operations of the United States will be held on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. The preparations will include soldiers from the Bulgarian country and soldiers from the US Special Forces with weapons and equipment. The preparation is not related to military operations, preparatory actions to conduct upcoming military operations, and to activities to prevent military action led by other (other country or organisation) armed forces. The provisions of the Law shall be notified to the competent authorities. 2. In the performance of art. 65, para. 1 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria has, by its order, authorised the dispatch and use of aircraft with crew soldiers from the Air Force for the implementation of special flights to provide air transport for the needs of the Ministry of Defence by route from Sofia airport to Istres airport, the Republic of France, and vice versa on 1 February 2020. The relevant competent state authorities have been notified in accordance with the provisions of the Law. 3. In the performance of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and stay on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces by its order has authorised the passage through the airspace of non-military nature and the landing of the airport of Sofia on an Il-76 plane with its crew from the Air Force of Ukraine for the transport of military production. The authorisation shall be valid for transit through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria on flights via Ukraine route and back from 6 to 13 February 2020. The notifications were received on 30 January and 3 February 2020 with entry No 003-09-13, entry 003-09-14 and entry 003-09-15 and provided to the Defence Committee. Last message: Information was received from the National Statistical Institute on the prices of a producer on the domestic and international markets in industry, December 2019. A declaration on behalf of a group, please, Mr. Markov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u16	Madam President, honourable Members! Yesterday we witnessed that the Bulgarian Head of State used his constitutional right to address the Bulgarian people to the Bulgarian nation. Unbelievable, but it is a fact that the President of Bulgaria has taken his trust from the Bulgarian government! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The big question being asked is: why did he not say which member of the Bulgarian Constitution removes this trust? [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Is it an involuntary omission...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u17	Quiet, please! Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u18	...or just doesn't have a cock like that? There is no member who gives the Bulgarian Head of State the right to take the trust of the Bulgarian government. On the contrary, there is art. 1 That Bulgaria is a parliamentary republic, that in this parliamentary republic the executive power in the face of the government receives its mandate only from the National Assembly and from the Bulgarian voters. In this House July 1990, as a result of democratic elections, voted for by over 90% of the Bulgarian voters, 400 MPs came with a vote in Bulgaria to be a parliamentary republic. The votes for presidential were small, even smaller than these: we want the king! We want our king back! Only the Bulgarian Parliament and the Bulgarian voters can take their trust away from the government. I can't believe it, but it's a fact! The Bulgarian Head of State has failed to note that just a few days ago the Bulgarian Parliament once again gave a vote of confidence to the Bulgarian government as the only authorized constitutional authority. Moreover, the Head of State did not pay any attention to the fact that only three months ago the Bulgarian voters, i.e. the voice of the people and God, gave a great vote of confidence to the ruling GERB party, which literally defeated the opposition. [[Applause from GERB.]] Dear colleagues, we should be proud. BSP is a strong party, one of the strong socialist parties in Europe. Stronger than the French, which is 5%, stronger than the German, which has gone below 15% already. You're fifth in power, and that makes our victories even sweeter. So we're even stronger, so we win from eight parliamentary votes eight to zero. [[Applause from GERB.]] And he missed the Head of State and that eight months ago there was a vote for European elections. He was on his mind, and I don't mean to offend him because I respect him, but he had a dream about revolutions. He was talking: people are on the street. There were very few, very small numbers of people on the street. There will always be people in a democracy on the street. Doesn't Mr. Macron have people against him? Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, They set the restaurant on fire, Fume, of Alain Delon. Of the yellow ones of the black ones. There's no full happiness, there's no 100 percent vote! Something to which we cannot fail to respond to the heavy sentence and the extremely false one which the Bulgarian Head of State addressed to the Bulgarian nation gave to the Bulgarian institutions. They, honourable colleagues, were paralyzed. This is what the Bulgarian Head of State says, and this is what Western ambassadors, our colleagues from the European Parliament and so on listen to. Who's paralyzed? The Constitutional Court? That he immediately formed case number 1 at the request of the Attorney General for interpretation of art. 103 of the Constitution relating to the impeachment of the Head of State when he violates the Constitution, when there is high treason, for his penal irresponsibility. What about the fact that this Constitutional Court is paralyzed, so the bassis with two thirds at our request, the shameless Istanbul Convention? Is the Bulgarian government paralyzed, which brought to Bulgaria unprecedented in the history of our country at all, 34 prime ministers from all over Europe? So have you remembered anything more than our Austrian Presidency or the Finnish European Presidency? Who, if not the Bulgarian prime minister, managed to get Vuči and Thaci to shake hands and Spanish Prime Minister Rahoy for the first time in Spain's history to sit down and have dinner at a table with the Kosovars, with the Kosovo prime minister? Is the Bulgarian Parliament paralyzed? There was an attempt to paralyze by the Bulgarian Socialist Party and the Bulgarian people of the European elections told them their opinion. Do you remember how they left like Aslans and how they came back, I won't tell because it's unconstitutional. [[Laughter at GERB.]] Is the local government paralyzed? Could Burgas be paralyzed and have such a beautiful tree to admire Mrs. Radeva? [[Laughter at GERB.]] Is the Attorney General paralyzed? That he's so pissed off! I was in Hungary the other day. I'm looking at it from Brussels in Varna after the bandits. He's not sitting in the freezer, he's not frozen. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Or don't you like it? Is the President of the Supreme Court paralyzed, Mr. Panov? He is so thawed that he went all the way to Warsaw, which is not his job, to a rally against the Polish government in defence of the Polish judiciary. In other words, democracy in Bulgaria is in order. The Head of State's statement is a problem, and the fact that once again he said that poverty was getting bigger. Well, there are economists here, they will say someday when the salaries in Bulgaria were higher. During Mr. Lukanov's time, when you made our lives scottish; during Mr. Videnov's time your government, when it was three dollars; I was a five-dollar constitutional judge; at the time of the parallel state, when you and DPS made Prime Minister Ilija Pavlov and ruled us from Bistritsa?! For those lost for Bulgaria, the Head of State is silent in the 1990s. He was not involved in the change, he may not know these things, but when you become president of a state, you will read both the Constitution and the new democratic history of Bulgaria. Nice poverty. Third in Europe on growth. Poland supposes 4.7; Hungary supplied 5.1; we are third. So when was this?! There is poverty, and in other countries there is poverty. After the lost 90s there will be poverty. And there will be natural disasters. There's no water in Pernik. And there were no fires in Athens and Tsipras couldn't control them? Is there no fires in Australia and the government is to blame? And what if the Head of State voted for a vote of mistrust of the Bulgarian government? Does it answer him the same way?! To leave the solution, and solve it, to the problem of the water of Pernik, piled up for decades, and to come here Borisov, to confront you and to say: I lower my confidence by the Bulgarian President. I'm not gonna offer him ambassadors, we're gonna ride with these guys, and so on and so forth? This is the 30th year of the first free and democratic elections. We, the parliamentary group of GERB, can, but we do not say that we are removing our trust from the Bulgarian Head of State because we respect its choice, even if it is without machine voting. They didn't pick it without a machine. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] On the same day Borisov greeted him. This requires the rule of democracy because we are a member of the European People's Party, and it is typical for socialist liberal parties not to recognise votes in Europe. Our prime minister is superior to the president in one very important thing. He's a loving man. He loves people. [[Laughter from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] He went and said he loved Merkel equally and her antipod Orbán. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And in America, he said something unheard of: he loves Republicans and the Republicans' showers, the Democrats. And here he went to the home of a DPS mayor and said: "I love all the mayors! " And he showed it, loving the mayor of Pernik and solving the issue of water. [[Applause from GERB. Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We will decide because we have enough MPs at the will of the Bulgarian voters, whether we want impeachment or not. We can enter such a procedure when we hear the Constitutional Court's ruling. What we say, however, is that it is unprecedented for a Bulgarian head of state to divide the nation and to say that it is only with those millions who did not vote for GERB and not with those millions who eight times in parliamentary elections elect the GERB party. That's the kind of division no one's ever allowed to make. He did, and he can no longer be president of our constituents. He insulted them. They were the moral ones, and those who chose the government were the immoral ones. The immoral are the majority in Sofia, the majority in Plovdiv, the majority in Varna, the majority in Burgas, the majority in Stara Zagora, the majority in Gabrovo, the majority in Kazanlak, the majority in Lovech, not to speak them all the cities. Teteven, Dupnitsa, Kyustendil, Montana [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] What I am saying on behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB is this: we are very sorry for this failure of the Bulgarian Head of State. We do not gloat, we do not rejoice for this gross mistake, but we no longer consider him the president of all Bulgarians. We remain loyal to our constituents, with which we will win in 2021 and will go forward without and despite the President. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Markov. On behalf of a group, Mr. Zarkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Yesterday, Bulgarian President Rumen Radev announced that he took his trust from the government. This act is extremely important. He's not unprecedented. Other presidents have done the same, namely President Plevneliev and President Zhelev. We may not have agreed with their assessment, but we have never questioned their right to address Bulgarian citizens and to say that the government does not think they are doing their job. Since yesterday there have been a lot of comments regarding this denial of trust, but you are missing a key phrase of the President since yesterday and it seems to me that it is even more important. President Radev said: "All this must be put to an end! What's to be ended? The pink words we heard here? Yes, the draining of public funds, yes, but also of the absolutely unacceptable inaction that brings the country into absolute timelessness; the government's inaction for three years; not only to hear any objective criticism, but also to undertake the absolutely necessary reforms that we all know about, which you are talking about. The government, like those wise men who are calmly waiting for the river to bring the corpses of their enemies, sits and looks at the river, but the river has dried up, filled with dead fish, people in 2020 are left without water, and the air they breathe brings them into hospitals. Which hospitals does he put them in? He's bringing them into the absolutely ruined municipal and state hospitals or the shiny and expensive private hospitals. For three years here every year we vote 100 more and 200 more, and 300 more and more of the budget of health care to expire, in recognition of the Health Insurance Fund, this money in the pockets of speculators, while real patients pay through the so-called supplementary payment, out of their own pocket. Do you know who pays the most? Do you know who it weighs on? The pensioners. The pensioners, who, for three years and more, have appealed to recalculate pensions because we live in a country where two people worked the same trade at the same time, took radically different pensions because they retired in different years. Every time we say that this is absolutely unacceptable from a social, economic and justice point of view, you say to us: "Do you know how much money it costs to recalculate pensions? Where do we get this money? Here are some suggestions. Firstly, by stopping the leaks, we talked about those in the Health Insurance Fund; secondly, by making such a government that does not sleep, that some gambling bosses for years did not put enough taxes into the country. That's where we can get the money. The competent government is what can provide money for people to live fairly. Speaking of gambling, you understand that while we wait for Vassil Bozhkov to return from the United Arab Emirates, the Bulgarians are increasingly traveling out of the country and fleeing from here? Why? It's not just about wages, but because they're looking for, besides good income, health care, education for their children, social justice and real justice. One word for each of them to find out why the President says: "All of this must be put to an end! " We mentioned health care. You want to talk about education? You've been deafening people's ears about raising teachers' salaries. Okay, but every teacher stays stuck in paperwork that prevents him from committing to his normal activities. In all rankings, whether international PISA or internal assessment, children are not well prepared and do not receive the necessary education. The universities are ready to give diplomas to four-year-olds as long as they promise to join this university because the money follows the student. Well, as long as the money follows the student, the student runs abroad, especially if it's good. This is happening right now. For social policy, because I see your specialists before me under the pressure of protest we made a package of laws; under the pressure of another protest we cancelled their entry into force. Meanwhile, in the luft, it turns out that thousands of people are left without an assistant, that there are thousands of people in need of any help, that the state absolutely abdicates, and you are playing tango one forward and two backwards, without even knowing what you think about this sector tomorrow for a sector where there are also billions, a sector from which billions are also leaking out. Justice. Is it a secret to anyone that the attacks on the president are because he said that something far more significant should be done in this sector? Will we continue to sit with our eyes wide open to the problems that shake us, to enjoy this or that chaotic action? The President has also asked another question from which you are fleeing the one about fair elections. Judge Markov here explains what wins and how great it is, and how the majority supports GERB. Are you sure? Are you sure it's for you, those 400,000 null and void ballots? Are you sure there is a Bulgarian out there who is convinced that what we are here really represents the Bulgarian people in its entirety? That's not the case, and you know it. You can hear it on your reception. What annoys you about the president is not so much that he's losing confidence is not so critical, it's not even the fact that he, with all his behavior, seals the role of president. What annoys you is that he's telling the truth! You know it, but you don't accept it. All of this must be put to an end! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Here you are, Mr. Tsonev, for a declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, the parliamentary group of the Parliamentary Committee on Rights and Freedoms has asked me to introduce you to our position on the occasion of yesterday's address of the Bulgarian President to the nation. We at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms very closely monitor the events that have been taking place in recent months, especially after the last elections, and we are also very closely monitoring the President's appearances. On him and this institution, the DPS has always looked with special hope, with a special expectation of the responsibilities that the person who holds this position has, towards the unity of the Bulgarian nation, at the unity of the Bulgarian nation, at all processes that flow in the country, as the President, whoever he is, is currently talking about the institution, does not have much power, but has the power to catalyze certain processes or to stop certain processes. From this point of view, we carefully observed yesterday's speech and very carefully analysed it in the parliamentary group. What did the president say yesterday? Firstly, the very act of taking confidence from the government is a continuation of the act made by the previous president in 2013. No president has previously used the formula The President has the right to address, has the right to give assessments, but we said at the time that President Plevneliev is in some fictional constitutional amplification. The president doesn't take trust or give trust! However, the President has the right to say his opinion, to address the Bulgarian people, to the nation and to send certain messages. That's how much I take my trust. I give my trust. This is not something that the Movement for Rights and Freedoms believes is appropriate for the Bulgarian Head of State. As for the specifics of this address, the President said nothing new. Dear colleagues from GERB and the majority, you know perfectly well that power is moving from crisis to crisis, that crises are literally solved only with the prime minister's ability to solve acute crisis, that there is no prevention of crises, that the cabinet, ministers and the majority are almost not involved in crisis resolution and mainly in their prevention. Secondly, no significant reforms are being carried out in the country, and there is a screaming need for them. Of course, here we always give the example of health care first, because it is the most fragile, but it is not just health care. Have you now convinced yourself that the ecology sector is in dire need of deep reform? You were convinced, only on people's backs! So this isn't new either. For three years our parliamentary group of this platform and the media has been repeating the same thing: there is a screaming need to carry out deep institutional reforms in most public sectors in the country. There is no majority that has the political will to carry out these reforms. This is not just a reproach to the majority and to you, colleagues from GERB, such reforms are carried out with broad political consent, otherwise they are either doomed to failure or the relevant cabinet falls. Therefore, we have been calling for three years: for the main political forces to sit down and outline the priorities, i.e. the sectors that will be deeply reformed so that there is no opposition to the reformer. To reforms! Anything else could be. No one can hear us. By the way, we placed these hopes on the Bulgarian President to stand and repeat this: come to me, sit down and solve this, this and this problem. What will health care look like so that no one resists reforms? What will education look like? What will ecology look like? What will the rest of the sectors look like? And now that the President finds that there is a crisis in crisis, that there are crises in many sectors, I would like to ask again on behalf of the parliamentary group: does the statement itself not deepen these crises? Didn't yesterday's statement itself deepen the crisis even further because there was a crisis? The second thing I would like to ask: does the President specify the formula for exiting the crisis? Our assessment is: no. If the formula is new choices, we are not convinced that they will bring something different. The past two choices in 2019 have shown exactly what does not mean that we should give up elections. Democracy is elections, procedures and so on, but early elections are made when it is clear that no longer can and that these elections will bear an alternative. We have no convincing evidence that these elections will give birth to an alternative, so the DPS has repeatedly said from this tribune that if we are going to do the exercise to sit down, the exercise is not worth the effort of the nation. However, if we want any change, a young colleague, we will not stand by and wait and look for change, we will look for it with dialogue. In your opinion, I ask the Bulgarian President, I ask the Bulgarian Prime Minister on behalf of the DPS, I ask all the institutions, and I ask you, colleagues: is the war between institutions a means to resolve the crises, does it strengthen statehood? We have been warning for three years that there has been a conflict between the institutions, which has become a war yesterday, that is, there will be no dialogue anymore. I'm taking my trust down means so far. How will these problems be solved without dialogue? I call on the whole nation to unite and put an end to this. " - Well, there is no one who does not call on the nation, but how, by what, by which way? The opinion of the DPS is that the road is a dialogue between the institutions, dialogue within parliament, dialogue between political parties on exiting the many crises that formulate a general crisis of statehood, something about which Mr Karadaiyi is talking here in every declaration of the crisis of democracy, a crisis of statehood and the components of this crisis. We have repeatedly outlined them, but once again we say: the formula of the DPS is dialogue. Dialogue between the institutions, to repeat or to pursue, dialogue between political parties, dialogue in parliament, outline the country's main priorities, outline the main parameters of reforms and the main sectors that will be reformed, because the country has no potential to reform all sectors, but, say, with three can start. This is the way out of the crisis. Otherwise, the President's findings in one part are correct, in another part they are not. For example, what is true about selling national sovereignty? I would particularly like to stress this.. our commitment to our partners from NATO and the European Union cannot be declared a sale of national sovereignty, because then all of us who vote and work for these priorities must be national traitors. Oh, yeah? We strongly disagree with this assessment! The words should be carefully and precisely analyzed. We of the DPS will definitely continue to fulfil our commitments to our partners from NATO and the European Union, because this is the commitment we have made to the Bulgarian voters and to the entire people. There are true things, but nothing new. In the President's address, there is no formula for exiting the crisis. We offer this formula.. dialogue. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonev. Mr. Mareshki, please come in for a statement on behalf of a group.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u24	Madam President, honourable Members! I am provoked by the events that are taking place in the last days, and by the speeches, by the declarations that we have heard today by the majority of the parliamentary powers, to make a declaration for which I am authorized by our group of the Political Party. Very nice words, well-written speeches, well-trained and well-promoted in the public domain, both yesterday by the President of the Republic, and today by much of the speeches here. But so what? We've been listening to this for 30 years! What's the truth, Mr. Zarkov? Yesterday, the president lied about his interest in electoral legislation. It is not true that he is interested in the Bulgarian legislation in its part to hold legal elections. We, for several weeks after announcing that his collections were empty speaking to a large group of people, from which nothing should follow, and that there should be individual ones in which everyone, when he said something, should know who said what and the truth to the Bulgarian society, we invited him by giving him three points with which we believe that 97% of the problems of unfair elections are solved. And these are: a video of the counting of the outcome of the elections, where every Bulgarian citizen who is interested can over the Internet, standing in his own home, see how the votes are accounted for; a ban on voting illiterate Bulgarians; we stop buying votes. We stop this every single person who has invested in his education, in his development, to himself and to our nation, his fate and the fate of all those like him, and I hope, like all of you and your relatives, who also hope that they are not without a finished third grade, to be decided by illiterate Bulgarians who go out and then ask him, "Who have you voted for?" With such ideas we wanted to meet with the President, and he told us that he was not interested in this thing and practically ignored the only people who give pragmatic solutions because empty speaking is one thing, and practically people are waiting for solutions. The call for the main political parties to gather and find solutions, to consolidate in a dialogue on finding solutions. In fact, aren't the main political parties those who create the crises from crises that you are talking about for 30 years now? Isn't that exactly the cynicism that, as noted by honourable colleague Markov, they left him on a five-dollar salary, but our parents too, and we ourselves were in the same situation. I personally supported my son with aid from the Red Cross. In 1991, if there were no Red Cross benefits, we wouldn't be able to feed our children. Well, I ask: do those people who have made the biggest crises in Bulgaria have the right to create this commotion and attempt to disorder and be a moral pillar of society right now? In fact, dear colleague Zarkov, because you are a young man and other young people from your party, from your group, in fact, the problem of Bulgaria is that there is a relatively strong Bulgarian Socialist Party. It suffocates the possibility of real alternative movements, an alternative to the whole transition, people who can predict problems and give solutions. As long as there is a Bulgarian Socialist Party.............................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u25	Ban it?!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u26	No, we don't have to forbid it. ...will always manage GERB. You're very comfortable. You see, whatever you say, they immediately say to you: "But you do it a hundred times worse than us! " - A hundred times worse, a hundred times poorer people have lived with you. A hundred times less reforms have been made. If you, when you ruled, even the last term, had done the reforms you are now talking about seeking consent, we now did not need to wait for the new government and the new majority to make these reforms. These accusations of previous governments do not allow for seeking consent and solving problems. I wonder why you are all afraid to bring some freshness into the management of Bulgaria!? What's the big deal? There is only one party that in all 30 years has not managed Bulgaria, and at the moment, according to the will of the Bulgarian people, is part of the Bulgarian Parliament. And it's 100% larger than the group of "Attack," 50% of the group of NFSB, 10% of the group of IMRO, 10% larger than the group of ABB in the previous parliament. So everyone, whoever they are, only when they are old, has the right to be in the management of Bulgaria and to do their shenanigans and to go so far as to be from crisis in crisis, but for example "VOLLA" - Bulgarian Rodolovers - we are afraid to try them out, to see what ideas they have and can realize them, because everyone over the years has gone out here, on the stands, and before society, and they have only spoken nice and beautiful things. Yesterday we are listening and the President is repeating my words from four years ago. Four years ago, when we led the battle against corruption, cartels and smuggling with respectable professionals... Guys, where was the president to join us? Why did he fall for the old one again? And in fact this is his main problem that he is the President of BSP and not all Bulgarians! And that's why he doesn't have the legitimacy to go out and criticize anyone in this country. Because it is part of the system that creates crises, not part of the solutions. Some of the decisions can be made by us from the party. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We also see the head of the health department coming out and saying things that I've been saying for 15 years. Who is this thing secret about, and who of you hasn't managed these 15 years when these things happened and drained the Health Insurance Fund?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u27	How much money did you get from the Cashier?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u28	And what, there will still be no solution, because you still want to seek agreement with each other. Call professionals, call people who know.. I am not only talking about the party.VOLIA "Bulgarian patriots". There are other people in Bulgaria who have qualities and who have knowledge in different fields. Ask them and make a decision. The money was drained into Bozhkov's schemes. And who introduced the amendment? Now from the media, years later, when everything was drained, we understand that these were MPs from BSP.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u29	That's not true! That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u30	Well, he admitted it himself, Mr. Svilensky. Given that you are part of the system, which for 30 years has not made the necessary reforms for Bulgaria to develop in the right direction, currently not having crises, not draining dams, not importing junk, you have no moral right to speak. It is really necessary to seek broad agreement. At the moment Bulgaria is in crisis And we from all sides expect pragmatic proposals for solutions, and declare that we are ready to support any formation that cares for Bulgaria to be developed a European state and the Bulgarians to be a proud, dignified, civilized European people. Thank you and I wish you every success in this obligation under the Constitution! [[Applause from the Bulgarian Rhodolists.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u31	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. You're welcome, Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u32	Madam President, before the start of the declarations, I asked you, when a colleague here speaks falsely, to take his word away. The President again criticised the political status quo for the fourth time there was a no-confidence vote last week and they saved this government for the fourth time with their vote. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] It's the truth! Keep that in mind when you speak untruths, take away the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u33	All right, Mr. Prodanov. Mr. Veselinov, come in for a statement on behalf of a group.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u34	Madam President, honourable Members! From this tribune, the word "crisis" was repeatedly spoken. In fact, there has been a major crisis from which, unfortunately, Bulgarian society has suffered for decades. And this is the crisis of the elite with the crisis of those who manage, the inability to be at the height of which our ancestors were the builders of modern Bulgaria, with their ability to master their ego, to master their own personal interest and to put national interest above all else. We of the United Patriarchs have always raised this question. It is not a coincidence that in all elections we appear with the slogan of Bulgaria above all else!..... because for us this is the beginning of the realization and beginning of the usefulness of a politician for society... to realize that the common is above the private and the nation is above everything. The Unity of the Bulgarian Nation is a constitutional principle. Also in the preamble to the Constitution it says that we MPs, realizing the unity of the Bulgarian nation... This unity must be a sacred principle for all of us. The thought of this unity, the pursuit of it, must lead the men of state when they make their political moves. It is very easy to be tempted that politics is a chessboard on which pieces move and the idea is how to mate the opponent. The truth is, however, that this chessboard has a great significance for players, but in fact, the main thing that is happening is underneath it in the popular masses, in what is an impact on society as a whole. Therefore, it is not good when the person who represents the unity of the nation actually enters into some kind of war. We, of course, cannot support this tone of voice. It is not good when institutions that are constitutional, which are anchored as a corrective to each other, as some way to guarantee democracy and the protection of national interest, declare an end to dialogue. Actually, that's the saddest thing about yesterday. I hope this is some kind of short-term emotion, and sooner or later, we're going to go back to normalization. Here many times the word "crisis" has been repeated, but no one has asked for the responsibility for the crises that we have experienced together during these three years. Because it is easy to make reforms when there is consensus. Another is the question: is this consensus achievable in this Chamber? Unfortunately, three years we have witnessed daily confrontation, the inability to reach consensus, and the examples in this regard are many. Literally last week, after many talks, bringing out, of course, currency stability as a major, fundamental priority for the development of the economy, I recognise, after misdirection of the draft decision by colleagues from GERB, we have conducted a series of consultations, we have sought this consensus, we have understood what it should be and finally the opposition has distanced itself from it. Let's take responsibility, colleagues. Then, when you have put a fair question, the majority has responded. It's come all the way to the dialogue. It is not appropriate for you to hold back at the last moment and say: "A, no, it is better not to be held responsible. " The gambling law is also an example because we heard accusations about how the stolen gambling money, of course, the court would determine whether it was stolen, could have gone for pensions. Still, the same people who criticized for this thing did not support the Law, which creates a state monopoly in gambling and possibly is a prerequisite for the collection of this money and their entry into the fissure. Let's keep going. A year ago, we raised the issue of the gypsy of the state, with the creation of entire autonomous communities which do not recognise the Bulgarian law, which live by their laws, and that the state should enter there if we do not want to provoke civil war. By the way, a policy successfully implemented over the years by the DPS, which benefited from it. We didn't hear any consensus here. And here everyone kept quiet, hid in the corner and said, "It's not a problem or better not to solve it." It is not just a matter of wishing for governance to make reforms if there is really no maturity of the political class, as we have used the media to name the management elite. There is no way these reforms will be successful. Finally, I would like to say a few words about this talk about hopelessness. I have spoken from this tribune many times and I have said that this is a big mistake of the opposition, a big trap that you have entered, I think, already serious and the President with his behaviour. We are obliged not to talk about hopelessness, but to give hope to the Bulgarians. We can't do rhetoric about how everything dies, everything fails, everything ends, if we're not in power, of course, to win elections. It proved itself. While everything was dying according to this rhetoric, Bulgaria marked a decent growth of 3 percent, wages increased by 10 percent. In other words, there were no such negative trends, but whether this growth was felt by the people who were flooded with negative speech is now another matter. And in the final of this speech, I would like to call once again: let us be conscious of the responsibility given to us by our constituents and seek the solutions, not the wars. This is the call of the United Patriarchs and not only are we ready for dialogue, we are ready to initiate any dialogue and any consensus in the name of Bulgaria. I wish everyone in this room to have the same will and the same sequence of actions.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u35	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov. We continue with the first point of our work programme. I'll introduce you to: Project! DECISION on a change in the composition and direction of the permanent delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of Francophones The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 38 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Krum Kostadinov Zarkov as a member and head of the permanent delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of Francophones. 2. He elected Georgi Georgiev Mihailov as a member and head of the permanent delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of Francophones. Please vote on the draft decision. Vote 90 MPs: vote 85, no objection, abstention 5. The offer is accepted. We continue with the next item of the Work Programme: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE CONSUMER PROTECTION LAW. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The bill was adopted in the first vote on 12 December 2019. The Economic Commission is welcome, dear Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u36	On the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of our Rules of Procedure, I ask that we vote on access to the Chamber of Dimitar Margaritov, President of the Commission for Consumer Protection.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u37	I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Please invite Mr. Margaritov to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u38	The Law on Consumer Protection is amended and supplemented by the Law on Consumer Protection. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3 by proposing in point 3. 1 The words of the law shall be deleted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u39	Statements? I won't. I shall put the following texts to the vote: the text of the importer for the name of the Law; the text of the importer for § 1; the text of the importer for § 2; the text of the importer for § 3 with the proposed editorial amendments by the Commission; and the text of the importer for § 4. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u40	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 5: .................................................................................. Chapter 9 shall be created with art. 190b - 190m: ? Chapter Nine?? Cooperation between national authorities responsible for implementing consumer protection legislation Art. 190b. The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to infringements of consumer interest law covered by Regulation (EU) 2017/2394 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2017 on cooperation between national authorities responsible for the implementation of consumer protection legislation and repealing Regulation (EC) No 2006/2004 (OJ L 345/1 of 27 December 2017.), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) 2017/2394'. Art. 190c. Any action or omission contrary to consumer interest protection legislation covered by Regulation (EU) 2017/2394 and which has damaged, damaged or likely to harm their interests shall be prohibited. Art. 190. Competent authorities within the meaning of art. 3, p. 6 of Regulation (EU) 2017/2394 are: 1. The Commission for Consumer Protection.................................................................................................................................................................. (a) Chapter two, Sections I and IV; Chapter four, Sections I, II and III; Chapter five, Sections II and III; Chapters 6 and 7 and art. 181n; (b) The Ecommerce Act; (c) The Law on the provision of financial services at a distance; (d) Chapter 7, Section II of the Tourism Act; (e) Art. 29a of the Law on Services Activities; (f) The Law on Consumer Credit; (g) chapters two, three, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, eleventh and twelfth of the Consumer Credits Act; (h) Art. 3, 4 and 6 of Regulation (EC) No 1107/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 July 2006 on the rights of disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility in air travel (OJ L 204/1 of 26 July 2006.) (i) Art. 5, 9 "11, 14 and 15' of Regulation (EU) No 181/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 on the rights of passengers in bus and coach transport and amending Regulation (EC) No 2006/2004 (OJ L 55/1 of 28 February 2011.) (k) Art. 7 s 9 and 12 of Regulation (EU) No 1177/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 November 2010 on the rights of passengers travelling by sea or inland waterways and amending Regulation (EC) No 2006/2004 (OJ L 334/1 of 17 December 2010.), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) No 117 (l) Art. 14 of Regulation (EU) No 524/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 May 2013 on online dispute resolution of consumer disputes and amending Regulation (EC) No 2006/2004 and Directive 2009/22/EC (the Consumer ODR Regulation) (OJ L 165/1 of 18 June 2013.) (m) Regulation (EU) 2017/1128 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 June 2017 on the cross-border portability of online content services within the internal market (OJ L 168/1 of 30 June 2017).), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) 2017/1128'; (n) Regulation 2018/302 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 February 2018 on combating unjustified geographical blocking and other forms of discrimination on the basis of nationality, residence or place of establishment of customers within the internal market and amending Regulations (EC) No 2006/2004 and (EU) 2017/2394 and Directive 2009/22/EC (OJ L 60/1 of 2 March 2018.) 2. As regards the application of the provisions of Chapter 11 of the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine; 3. The Communications Regulation Commission........................................................................................................ 261 of the Law on Electronic Communications; 4. The General Directorate of the Civil Aviation Administration shall, with regard to the implementation of the provisions of: (a) Regulation (EC) No 261/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 February 2004 establishing common rules for compensation and assistance to passengers in the event of denied boarding and cancellation or long delay of flights and repealing Regulation (EEC) No 295/91 (OB, L 46/1 of 17 February 2004).) (b) Regulation (EC) No 1107/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 July 2006 on the rights of disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility in air travel (OB, L 204/1 of 26 July 2006.) (c) Art. 24 of Regulation (EC) No 1008/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 September 2008 on common rules for the operation of air services in the Community (OB, L 293/3 of 31 October 2008).) 5. The Commission for Protection of Competition... with regard to the application of the provisions of art.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 32 - 34 of the Law on Protection of 6. Council Regulation (EC) No 1371/2007 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2007 on the rights and obligations of passengers using rail transport (OJ L 315/14 of 3 December 2007).) 7. The Council for Electronic Media supposes the provisions of Chapter 4 of the Radio and Television Act; 8. the implementation of the provisions of Regulation (EU) No 1177/2010; 9. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme.) 10. The Bulgarian National Bank.. with regard to the implementation of art. 13 of the Law on Real Estate Credits of Users and Art. 20 of the Law on Real Estate Credits of Users and Art. 102 "120" of the Payment Services and Payment Systems Act; 11. As regards the application of the provisions of Chapter 7 of Section III of the Tourism Act, the Ministry of Tourism. Art. 190d. (1) The Commission for Consumer Protection shall be a Unitary liaison office within the meaning of art. 3, p. 7 of Regulation (EU) 2017/2394. (2) The Commission for Consumer Protection, acting as the Single liaison office, and the competent authorities under art. 190d, t. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. (3) The Commission for Consumer Protection, acting as the Single liaison office, and the competent authorities under art. 190d, t. 2 "11 exchange information and cooperate with each other and with the competent authorities of the Member States and with the European Commission to take coordinated action to stop widespread violations and widespread violations with a Union dimension within the meaning of art. 3, p. 3 and 4 of Regulation (EU) 2017/2394 under the conditions and under Chapter IV of that Regulation. Art. 190f. (1) The competent authorities under art. 190d directly exercise the powers to investigate violations of consumer protection legislation provided for in art. 9 (3) of Regulation (EU) 2017/2394. (2) State authorities, officials, legal persons and citizens shall cooperate and cooperate with the competent authorities under art. 190d in connection with the implementation of the powers conferred on them in relation to the investigation and enforcement of consumer protection legislation under Regulation (EU) 2017/2394. Art. 190g. (1) The Commission for Consumer Protection, as a competent authority under art. 190d, t. 1 shall exercise directly the powers to implement the laws on consumer protection laid down in Article 1. Article 9 (4) of Regulation (EU) 2017/2394, and its powers under Article 9 (4) of Regulation (EU) 2017/2394, Paragraph 4 (g) of Article 9 of that Regulation shall be carried out by issuing an order of: 1. a trader to remove content or to restrict access to an online interface or to send a clear warning to users in their access to its online interface; 2. hosting service provider and undertakings providing public electronic communications networks and/or services to remove, block or restrict access to an online interface, or
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u41	"3." Domain registrars shall delete the full domain name when necessary and, after the infringement has ceased, allow the domain to be reregistered. (2) The competent authorities under art. 190d, t. 2 "11" shall exercise directly the powers to apply consumer protection legislation provided for in art. 9 (4) (c) (i) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v (v) (v) (v) (v (v) (v) (v) (v (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v (v) (v) (v (v) (v) (v) (v (v) (v) (v (v) (v (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v (v (v (v (v) (v (v) (v) (v (v) (v) (v (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (3) The competent authorities under art. 190d, t. The Commission for Consumer Protection has been asked in writing to take measures under para. 1 where the actions taken by them to implement the legislation provided for in art. In order to prevent the risk of serious harm to the collective interests of consumers, points (a) and (b) of Article 9 (4) of Regulation (EU) 2017/2394, have not resulted in the suspension or prohibition of the infringement. The request must be reasoned. (4) The President of the Commission for Consumer Protection on the basis of a written request under para. 3 issue an order order ordering the trader responsible for an infringement to remove content from an online interface or to send a clear warning to users in their access to its online interface. The order shall be published on the Commission's website on the day of its issue and the trader shall be notified without delay in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Administrative Procedure Code. The trader shall comply with the order within three days of its notification. (5) In the event of failure to comply with the order under para. 4 The Chair of the Commission shall issue an order order ordering hosting service providers and undertakings providing public electronic communications networks and/or services to remove, block or restrict access to the online interface of the trader responsible for the infringement. The order shall be published on the website of the Commission for Consumer Protection on the day of its issue. Hosting service providers shall be notified without delay by the Commission in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Administrative Procedure Code and the undertakings providing public electronic communications networks and/or services shall be deemed to have been notified of the order on the day of its publication. Hosting service providers and undertakings providing public electronic communications networks and/or services shall comply with the order within three days of their notification. (6) When the measures taken by the Commission for Consumer Protection under para. 4 and 5 have not reached an end of the infringement, the chairman of the commission shall issue an order order ordering domain registrars to delete the full name of the trader's domain responsible for the infringement. The order shall be published on the Commission's website on the day of its issue and the domain registrar shall be notified without delay, in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Administrative Procedure Code, when the name of the trader's domain falls within the field of The domain registrar shall comply with the order within three days of its notification. (7) The President of the Commission for Consumer Protection shall establish conditions for carrying out automated inspection by undertakings providing public electronic communications networks and/or services for the issued orders under para. 5. (8) Domain registrars are obliged to request consent from the Consumer Protection Commission upon receipt of a request for registration of a domain of a trader for whom a warrant under para. 6. (9) The orders under para. 4, 5 and 6 are subject to appeal under the Administrative Procedure Code. The appeal shall not suspend their execution unless the court order otherwise. (10) The Commission for Consumer Protection shall inform the competent authority making the request under para. 3 for the results of the actions taken by it. Art. 190z. (1) The competent authorities under art. 190d may initiate on their own initiative an investigation or a procedure to suspend or prohibit infringements of the legislation covered by Regulation (EU) 2017/2394. (2) The competent authorities under art. 190d may publish any final decision, any commitment made by the trader or any order adopted or issued in connection with the application of Regulation (EU) 2017/2394, including the publication of the identity of the trader responsible for breach of consumer protection legislation covered by that Regulation. Art. 190. (1) The Minister of Economy shall provide the European Commission with information on: 1. the list of competent authorities responsible for implementing consumer protection legislation covered by Regulation (EU) 2017/2394, contact details, powers and responsibilities; 2. The single liaison office.. Contact details, powers and responsibilities. (2) In the event of a change in the information under para. 1 The Minister of Economy shall immediately inform the European Commission of the changes that have taken place. Art. 190k. (1) The European Consumer Centre, representative associations of consumers and, where necessary, associations of traders, may submit signals to the competent authorities under art. 190d and to the European Commission for alleged violations of consumer protection legislation covered by Regulation (EU) 2017/2394, providing the information referred to in art. Article 26 (3) of the same Regulation as they have. The information to be provided must be correct, up-to-date and accurate and, where necessary, corrected or withdrawn. (2) The competent authorities referred to in Article 190 shall not be obliged to initiate a procedure or to take action in connection with a signal addressed to them by the authorities and organisations under para. 1. (3) The President of the Commission for Consumer Protection shall provide the European Commission with a list of the bodies and organisations under para. 1 entitled to submit alerts on alleged infringements of Regulation (EU) 2017/2394, contact details and information on authorities and organisations. Art. 190l. In carrying out its activities in implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/2394 the competent authorities referred to in art. 190d may use as evidence any document, information, finding, declaration certified by the original copies of documents provided by a competent authority of another Member State of the European Union collected under its proper legal order, irrespective of the carrier on which they are stored. Art. 190 meters. The information to be collected by the competent authorities under art. 190d and granted to them in connection with the exercise of their powers shall be used only for the purposes of Regulation (EU) 2017/2394 and may be disclosed only under the conditions of art. 33 of the same Regulation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u42	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 5. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u43	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose an amendment to § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (8) The Consumer Protection Commission shall exercise control to comply with the requirements of Regulation (EU) 2017/1128. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 7 and shall propose on the basis of art. 50, para. 1 of Decree No 883 on the application of the Law on Legislative Acts to create new paragraphs 7 .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 197 after the word "global" is added to the amount from 300 to 1000 BGN. § 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 198 after the word "global" is added to the amount from 200 to 1000 BGN. § 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 199 after the word "global" is added to the amount from 300 to 1000 BGN. § 10. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 200 after the word "global" is added to the amount from 200 to 1500 BGN. § 11. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 201 after the word "global" is added to the amount from 300 to 1000 BGN. § 12. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 202 after the word "global" is added to the amount from 500 to 3000 BGN. § 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 205 after the word "global" is added to the amount from 2000 to 10 000 § 14. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 207, para. 1 after the word "global" is added to the amount from 500 to 2000 § 15. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 208 after the word "global" is added to the amount of 500 to 2000 § 16. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 209 after the word "global" is added to the amount from 300 to 1000 BGN. § 17. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 210a after the word "global" is added to the amount from 500 to 15 000 BGN. § 18. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 210b after the word "global" is added to the amount from 1500 to 30 000 BGN. § 19. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 210c after the word "global" is added to the amount from 1500 to 30 000 BGN. § 20. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 211 after the word "global" is added to the amount from 3000 to 20 000 BGN. § 21. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 212 after the word "global" is added to the amount from 3000 to 5000 BGN. § 22. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 213 after the word "global" is added to the amount from 500 to 2000 § 23. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 214 after the word "global" is added to the amount from 500 to 2000 § 24. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 215 after the word "global" is added in amount from 3000 to 15 000 BGN. § 25. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 216 after the word "global" is added to the amount from 500 to 2000 BGN. § 26. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 218 after the word "global" is added to the amount from 2000 to 5000 § 27. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 219 after the word "global" is added to the amount from 500 to 3000 BGN. § 28. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 221 after the word "global" is added to the amount from 500 to 1000 BGN. § 29. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 222 is added after the word "global" in a amount of 500 to 2000 BGN. § 30. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 222a after the word "global" is added to the amount from 500 to 2500 BGN. § 31. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 223 after the word "global" is added in amount from 300 to 2500 BGN. § 32. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 224, para. 1 after the word "global" is added to the amount from 500 to 2500 BGN. § 33. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 225 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the word "global" is added to the amount from 500 to 2000 BGN................................................................................................................ 2. In para. 2 after the word "global" is added to the amount from 1000 to 3000 BGN. § 34. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 225e: Art. 225d. (1) An online content service provider which does not comply with the requirements of Regulation (EU) 2017/1128 shall be fined from 500 to 3000 BGN and the sole traders and legal entities shall be fined from 1000 to 5000 BGN. on a case-by-case basis. (2) In case of repeated infringement under para. 1 is imposed a fine of 1000 to 6000 BGN, respectively a penalty of 2000 to 10 000 BGN § 35. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 226, para. 1 after the word "global" is added to the amount from 5000 to 25 000 BGN. § 36. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 228 is added after the word "global" in the amount from 100 to 500 BGN. § 37. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 229 after the word "global" is added to the amount from 50 to 500 BGN. § 38. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 230 after the word "global" is added in size from 200 to 1000 BGN. § 39. A new article is being created. Art. 230a. Art. 230b, Art. 230b. Art. 230c and Art. 230c 230d: Art. 230a. For the obstruction of officials of the competent authorities under art. 190d and failure to provide the necessary assistance and cooperation in the exercise of their powers under art. 190f and 190g the persons are subject to a fine, respectively a penalty of 1000 to 3000 BGN. Art. 230b. To a sole trader or legal person who does not comply with an order under art. 190g, para. 4, a penalty of 1000 to 5000 BGN is imposed. Art. 230c. (1) For failure to comply with the obligation under art. 190g, para. 5 an undertaking providing public electronic communications networks and/or services to a hosting service provider shall be subject to a penalty of 1000 to 5000 BGN. (2) In case of repeated infringement under para. 1 a double-size penalty is imposed. Art. 230 C.E. (1) To a domain registrar who has failed to fulfil his obligation under art. 190g, para. 6 and 8, a penalty of 1000 to 5000 BGN is imposed. (2) In case of repeated infringement under para. 1 a double-size penalty is imposed. § 40. The current article. Art. 230a shall become Art. 230a. 230e and is amended as follows: Art. 230d. For obstruction of officials in the exercise of their powers under art. 192 and 192a and for failure to comply with an order under art. 192a, para. 1, t. 2 and para. 2 persons are subject to a fine, respectively a penalty of 1000 to 3000 BGN
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u44	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 6; the Commission's proposal for the creation of new paragraphs 7 - 11; and paragraph 12 - 40 with texts under the Commission Report. Vote 80 MPs: 79, against none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u45	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8, which shall become § 41. "Additional provision'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 9, which becomes § 42, by proposing that the words of Regulation (EU) 2017/1128 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 June 2017 on the cross-border portability of online content services within the internal market are deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u46	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 8, which shall become § 41; the text of the importer for the name of the division "Additional provision'; and the text of the importer for § 9, which shall become § 42 with the editorial amendments proposed by the Commission. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u47	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that the name of the subdivision be amended as follows: 'Concluding provisions'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10 which shall become § 43. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11, which shall become § 44: ..................................................... The law shall enter into force on the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union, with the exception of § 2, 3 and 4 which shall enter into force on 1 September 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u48	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I will put the following texts to the vote: the Commission's proposal to change the name of the division in "Concluding provisions'; the Commission's text on § 10, which becomes § 43; and the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 11, which becomes § 44. Vote 87 MPs: for 86, against none, abstention 1. The proposals have been adopted, and with this we have concluded the second vote of the Law. We continue with the next item of the Work Programme: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR CLIMAL CHANGE There is a report from the Environment and Water Commission. Here you are, dear Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u49	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I ask you to put to the vote a procedure for admission in Mrs. Atanaska Nikolova's Chamber of the Deputy Minister of Environment and Water.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u50	Thank you. I shall put the proposal to the vote. Vote 76 MPs: 74 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please invite Deputy Minister Nikolova to the hall. Please continue, dear Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on the Environment and Water on the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Climate Change Restriction Act, No 902-01-69, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 December 2019. At a regular meeting held on 23 January 2020, the Committee on Environment and Water examined at first reading a Draft amending and supplementing the Climate Change Reduction Act, No 902-01-69, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 December 2019. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Environment and Water: Mrs. Atanaska Nikolova, Deputy Minister, and Mrs. Boryana Kamenova, Director of the Directorate of Climate Change and Water Policy, Mrs. Nina Dimitrova, Head of the Department of Agriculture and Emissions Trading and Mrs. Iva Stoyanova, Senior Expert in the Department of Complex Prevention and Control of Pollution. On behalf of the importer, the bill and the reasons for its submission were presented by Deputy Minister Atanaska Nikolova. The submitted bill aims to enhance cost-effective reductions in emissions and low-carbon investments. The new provisions introduce the order and manner of operation of the European Emissions Trading Scheme in Bulgaria with regard to an increase in the linear coefficient for reduction of the total quantity of allowances in the European Union........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This results in a higher annual rate of reduction of the total quantity of allowances, which aims at a total reduction in emissions from all sectors in the European Emissions Trading Scheme, namely 43% by 2030. The Bill introduces the newly established Modernisation Fund, which includes the revenues of 2% of the total quantity of allowances in the European Union and in which Bulgaria has a reserved share of 5,84% of the funds. The free allocation of allowances to the industry shall be maintained. A more frequent coordination of the allocation of free allowances to the actual level of activity of installations is at stake, which will ensure that support is given to enterprises and sectors in which growth is realised. The list of sectors at risk of carbon leakage is shortened, with the most carbon-threatening of them receiving 100 per cent free allowances, while those who can transfer a significant proportion of the cost of the allowances to the product price of 30 per cent. It is envisaged for the reserve for new participants in the European Emissions Trading Scheme and for significant increases in production of installations already included in the scheme to be granted the residual amount of non-allocated free allowances from the third phase of the third phase of the allowances, as well as 250 million allowances from the Market Stability Reserve. It will be supplemented by quotas remaining unused due to the closure of installations or due to significant changes in production from 2021 onwards. In order to avoid unnecessary administrative burdens, the possibility to exclude installations which emit less than 2500 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent from the scope of the EU emissions trading scheme shall be introduced. Attitude to the submitted bill took the people's representative Jevdet Chakarov. It raised a question as to whether the reduction of the sectors that will receive free allowances and, accordingly, the percentage ratio with which they will be supported is a European or national requirement. The importers explained that this is European regulation. The European Commission's scientific department is currently setting out the indicators for which the amounts of free allowances will be determined. The indicators will be the same for each particular economic sector throughout the European Union. For this purpose, it is necessary for each undertaking to fill in an application form with information on its activity, the amount of greenhouse gas emissions and others. The importers expressed their opinion that Bulgaria is not expected to have a change in the allocation of free quotas compared to the previous period. After the discussion and the vote held, the Committee on Environment and Water with 17 votes for................................................................................................... He proposes to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Climate Change, No 902-01-69, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 December 2019 PRESENT EMIL CHRISTOV: Thank you, dear Mrs. Vasileva. We continue with the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u52	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism under a bill amending and supplementing the Climate Change Restriction Act, No 902-01-69, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 December 2019. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting held on 29 January 2020 examined and discussed the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Climate Change Reduction Act, No 902-01-69. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Environment and Waters, Atanaska Nikolova, Deputy Minister, Boryana Kamenova, Director of the Directorate of Climate Change Policy and Veneta Borikova, expert at the Directorate of Climate Change. The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Nikolova. According to the importer, the aim of the proposed bill is to introduce measures to strengthen cost-effective emission reductions and low-carbon investments. The update of time limits, requirements and dynamics in applied climate change policies and measures is the main circumstance requiring legislative changes. A number of funding mechanisms, funds, incentives that for businesses are an opportunity for development are inexhaustible and not applicable without the current changes. In order to meet the long-term decarbonisation targets of the European Union providing for a reduction in emissions by at least 80% by 2050, continuous progress towards a low-carbon economy is needed to create new opportunities for economic growth and job creation. The European Commission's main priority for the next ten years is to build a sustainable Energy Union aimed at climate policy to achieve an internal reduction in the European Union of greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40% compared to 1990. The new provisions introduce the order and manner of operation of the European Emissions Trading Scheme in Bulgaria in relation to an increase in the linear coefficient for reduction of the total quantity of allowances in the European Union. The new regulations regulate the new Modernization Fund, which includes the revenues of 2% of the total quantity of allowances in the European Union and in which Bulgaria has a reserved share of 5,84% of the funds. New opportunities for the use of auction revenues resulting from the transfer of allowances to the electricity price are included. The free allocation of allowances to the industry is maintained, but the specific emissions indicators, classification of sectors and activity levels have been revised. A more frequent coordination of the allocation of free quotas is at stake, which will ensure that support is given to businesses and growth sectors. The list of sectors at risk of carbon leakage is shortened, with the most carbon-threatening to receive 100% free allowances, while those that can transfer a significant proportion of the cost of the allowances to the product price of 30%. The current rules on free allocation of allowances for modernisation of the energy sector, which Bulgaria currently applies, are being optimised. A competitive bidding procedure will be applied for projects over 12.5 million. euros to be made public. Liquid fuel and energy suppliers for transport reduce smoothly greenhouse gas emissions per unit of life cycle energy from liquid fuels and energy supplied to the basic fuel standards in 2010 in order to reach at least 6 per cent of the total reduction on 31 December 2020. With regard to indirect costs, Member States are to grant compensation on a voluntary basis in accordance with State aid rules, and the revenue from the auctioning of allowances should be used for this purpose. In order to avoid unnecessary administrative burdens, it is possible to exclude from the scope of the ETS the European Union Emissions Trading Scheme, installations which emit less than 2500 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent. New relevant provisions of the Energy Act are proposed. According to the importer, the implementation of the Bill does not require additional funds. A partial preliminary impact assessment as well as those required under art. 76 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Following the conclusion of the discussion and the vote with results: 19 votes for the vote, without abstention and abstention, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism adopted the following opinion: He proposes to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Climate Limiting, No 902-01-69, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 December 2019
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u53	Thank you, dear Mrs. Dimitrova. We continue with the Energy Commission Report. Here you are, dear Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u54	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Climate Change Restriction Act No 902-01-69 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 December 2019 At its regular meeting held on 30 January 2020, the Energy Commission discussed and voted on the above-mentioned bill. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Environment and Water: Mrs. Atanaska Nikolova, Deputy Minister, Mrs. Boriana Kamenova, Director of the Directorate of Climate Change Policy, Mrs. Veneta Borikova, State Expert. The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Nikolova. The aim of the bill is to strengthen cost-effective reductions in emissions and low-carbon investments. The new provisions introduce the order and manner of operation of the European Emissions Trading Scheme in Bulgaria with regard to an increase in the linear coefficient for reduction of the total quantity of allowances in the European Union........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This results in a higher annual rate of reduction of the total quantity of allowances, which aims at a total reduction in emissions from all sectors in the European Emissions Trading Scheme by 43 per cent by 2030. New opportunities for the use of auction revenues have been included: financial measures to compensate for the indirect costs of the industry that arise as a result of the transfer of allowances to the price of electricity, financing climate activities in third vulnerable countries, promoting technology to switch to a low-carbon economy. The free allocation of allowances to the industry shall be maintained. However, the three main aspects that pre-determined it are revised for specific emissions, classification of sectors and activity levels. A more frequent coordination of the allocation of free allowances to the actual level of activity of installations is at stake, which will ensure that support is given to enterprises and sectors in which growth is realised. The list of sectors at risk of carbon leakage is reduced by about 50 remaining sectors, with the most carbon-threatening of them receiving 100 percent free allowances, while those who can transfer a significant proportion of the cost of the allowances to the product price of 30 percent. The implementation of the new provisions is expected to achieve the following results: implementation of the obligations of the Republic of Bulgaria under the Paris Agreement, harmonisation of domestic legislation with the requirements of Directive (EU) 2018/410 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 March 2018, optimizing the costs of reducing greenhouse gas emissions and promoting investment in projects and technologies for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, easing the administrative burden for business. Following the end of the discussion and on the basis of the vote held, the Energy Committee proposed to the National Assembly by 9 votes for the Council, without the opposition and 3 votes, to adopt by the Council of Ministers a bill of amendment and supplement to the Law on Climate Change, No 902-01-69, submitted on 12 December 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u55	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. I'm opening the debate. Honourable Members, you have the floor for speeches. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Climate Change, No 902-01-69, tabled by the Council of Ministers. Voted 126 MPs: 103, none against abstention 23. The motion is accepted. Let's continue with: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR PAID SERVICES AND PAID SYSTEMES. Importer of the Council of Ministers. You have the floor to present the Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I request a procedure on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, please be admitted to the Chamber: Mrs. Rositsa Velkova, Deputy Minister of Finance, Mrs. Tsvetanka Mihailova, Director of the Directorate of the Financial Markets Regulation, Ms. Margarita Gueva, State Expert at the Directorate of Financial Markets and Ms. Nina Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u57	I shall put the proposal to the vote. 110 MPs voted: 109 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Invite those admitted to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u58	In addition, the Council of Ministers submitted a report on the draft amending and supplementing the Law on Payment Services and Payment Systems, No 902-01-61, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 November 2019, adopted on the first vote on 27 November 2019. "The payment service and payment systems Act shall be amended and supplemented by the amendment and supplement.'. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. According to § 2 there is a proposal of the National Representative Alexander Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is A person who does not have a license to carry out a payment service activity and/or to issue electronic money may not use in his name, in his advertising or in any other activity words meaning to carry out such activity, except in the case of an advertising activity by a person entered in the register under art. 19 as a representative of a payment institution or of an electronic money company, subject to the condition of art. 30, para. 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u59	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for the name of the Law; the text of the importer for § 1; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 2; the text of the importer for paragraphs 3, 4 and 5. Vote 109 MPs: for 107, no objection, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u60	According to § 6 there is a proposal of the MP Alexander Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 14 the following amendments and additions are 1. In para. 5. (a) point 2 is amended as follows: "2." the qualification, professional experience, reliability and suitability of the managers and representatives, as well as of the members of the management and supervisory bodies, who will manage the activities of the payment institution as a result of the implementation of the acquisition requested, the requirements for which are determined by a BNB regulation; (b) A new item shall be created. 4. "4." as a result of the implementation of the claimed acquisition the requirements of art. 10, para. 4 t. 12 and 13; c) the current t. 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4. 5 and in it, the words for the performance of 2. In para. 7 words with a motivated written act shall be deleted. 3. A new para is being created. 10: The Bulgarian National Bank may temporarily deprive a shareholder of voting rights and/or a partner with qualified participation in the capital of the payment institution and/or order him/her to transfer the shares held by him/her in writing within 30 days where, with the activity or influence on decision-making, the person may damage the reliability or security of the payment institution or of the payment services it provides. 4. Previously on AMC's... The 10th and 11th become respectively. 11 and 12. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9. Proposal of the National Representative Alexander Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 18 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 8 is finally a comma and is added as art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 3 and 5 shall apply respectively. 2. A new para is being created. 9. The Bulgarian National Bank shall inform EBA of the reasons for any deletion from the register under para. 5. 3. So far, the Al. 9 becomes para. 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u61	Statements? You have the floor, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u62	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am addressing the representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Bank to clarify the following case. In what is offered in the new para. 10 of § 6, writes: The Bulgarian National Bank can temporarily deprive a shareholder and/or shareholder of voting rights. In the second part of the sentence it says:... within 30 days, when with the activity or influence on decision-making, the person can harm reliability........................................ and so on. There's ambiguity here. I think that quite at the beginning, when it comes to voting rights, it should be clearly written that it is up to 30 days, otherwise the BNB can take away the voting rights of the shareholders, it can be for years. There is ambiguity in this text! We insist on making it clear from the beginning that these 30 days concern both before and after the comma. Secondly, what happens to the case in 30 days, but purely hypothetically the bank takes away the shareholder's rights? These 30 days enter before the general meeting of the public limited liability company. By removing the main shareholder from the General Assembly, then the minority owner will make decisions or how? I ask our fellow Members to rule to make sure that the 30-day period concerns both options before the first comma and the second. Otherwise, there's ambiguity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u63	Mr. Gechev, do you make an editorial amendment and what exactly does it look like?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u64	I make a correction for these 30 days to be at the beginning: the BNB can temporarily deprive, within 30 days, of the right to vote shareholder...... and so on.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u65	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 6 and the texts of the importer for paragraphs 7, 8 and 9. They voted 124 MPs: 85, none, abstention 39. The proposals have been accepted. I put to the vote the proposal for an editorial amendment in § 6 made by the MP Rumen Gechev. They voted 118 MPs: 42, against 19, abstention 57. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 10 with a text according to the Commission report. Vote 112 MPs: 110, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u66	According to § 10, there is a proposal from the National Representative Alexander Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10, which shall become § 11: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 19 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 3, p. 1 the word "the order" is replaced by "the act." 2. The creation of para. 7. The Bulgarian National Bank shall immediately inform EBA of the information entered in the register under para. 1, being responsible for the accuracy of the information and its update. The provision of the information shall be carried out in accordance with the requirements of Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/410 of 29 November 2018 laying down implementing technical standards with regard to the elements and structure of payment service information that competent authorities are to provide to the European Banking Authority pursuant to Directive (EU) 2015/2366 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 73/20 of 15 March 2019.) (see Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009).
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u67	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 10 which shall become § 11. Vote 114 MPs: for 113, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u68	According to § 11 there is a proposal of the MP Alexander Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11, which shall become § 12: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 23 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 4 is created sentence two: "When this part is variable or not known in advance, the payment institutions shall apply the measures under para. 1 and 2 on the basis of a representative part of the funds deemed to be intended to carry out future payment transactions, provided that this representative part can reasonably be determined on the basis of historical data. 2. The creation of para. 5. The Bulgarian National Bank shall issue a regulation on the application of this Article.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u69	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 11, which shall become § 12. They voted 111 MPs: for 110, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u70	Paragraphs 12 to 26 by importer, respectively renumbering and becoming paragraphs 13 to 27.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u71	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for paragraphs 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25 and 26, respectively, which shall become paragraphs 13 to 27. Vote 112 MPs: for 109, against none, abstention 3. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u72	Under § 27, there is a proposal of the MP Alexander Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 27, which shall become § 28: ....... 28........................................... 28 In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 99 the following additions are made: 1. In para. The first sentence shall finally be a comma and shall be added by assisting in assessing the significance of the incident carried out by EBA and the ECB with regard to other competent authorities in the European Union. 2. In para. 4 after the words "licensed by BNB" a comma is placed and a branch of a payment service provider operating in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria is added. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 28, which shall become § 29. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 29, which shall become § 30.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u73	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 27, which shall become § 28, and the text of the importer for paragraphs 28 and 29, which shall become paragraphs 29 and 30 respectively. They voted 111 MPs: for 110, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u74	According to § 30, there is a proposal of the MP Alexander Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 30, which shall become § 31: ........................ 31...................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 148a: "Clearing and settlement of payment transactions in leva, Payment card related Art. 148a. (1) Clearing and settlement of payment transactions in levs related to payment cards shall be carried out by a system operator of a settlement finality system processing card-related payment transactions that carries out net settlement at a certain point in RINGS where the following conditions are met at the same time: 1. payment card issuers are payment service providers licensed by BNB or branches of payment service providers operating in the territory of the country; 2. the place of sale or terminal device ATM is located in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. (2) The place of sale under para. 1, t. 2 shall be determined according to art. 2, p. 29 of Regulation (EU) 2015/751. (3) The system operator under para. 1 lays down and makes public non-discriminatory access rules and conditions for participation in the payment system in accordance with art. 130, including with regard to indirect participants. Paragraphs 31, 32, 33, 34 shall be by importer, renumbering and becoming paragraphs 32 to 35.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u75	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 30, which shall become § 31; the texts of the importer for paragraphs 31, 32, 33 and 34, which shall become paragraphs 32, 33, 34 and 35. Vote 104 MPs: for 102, against 1, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u76	Proposal of the National Representative Alexander Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 36: ................................ 36.................................................. The following amendments and additions shall be made in paragraph 1 of the additional provisions: 1. point 2 is amended as follows: "2." The group shall be a group of undertakings within the meaning of the Accounting or Enterprise Act as defined in Articles 4, 5, 6 and 7 of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 241/2014 of 7 January 2014 supplementing Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council with regard to regulatory technical standards on own funds requirements for institutions (OJ L 74/8 of 14 March 2014.) which are connected by a link referred to in Article 10 (1) or in Article 113 (6) or (7) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 31 after the word "Payant" is added "or on his behalf." 'Concluding provisions'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision, as well as paragraphs 35 to 38 by importer, which shall be renumbered and become paragraphs 37 to 40 respectively.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u77	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I will put it to a vote: the Commission's proposal to create a new § 36 with a text according to the Commission Report; the text of the importer on the name of the division; the text of the importer for paragraphs 35, 36, 37 and 38, which become paragraphs 37, 38, 39 and 40 respectively. Vote 104 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u78	Proposal of the National Representative Alexander Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 41: ............................................................................. In the Law on the Civil Service (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 21, para. 4 t. 2 is added at the end. Proposal of the National Representative Alexander Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 42: .............................................................................. In the Labour Code (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 107a, para. 9, p. 2 is added at the end. Proposal of the National Representative Alexander Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 43: ..................................................... In the Law for the Management of Funds from the European Structural and Investment Funds (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 5 is created. 5. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u79	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 41 with a text under the Commission Report; the Commission's proposal to create a new § 42 with a text under the Commission Report; and the creation of a new § 43 with a text on the Commission Report. They voted 105 MPs: 102, against 1, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u80	Under § 39, there is a proposal of the MP Alexander Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the importer's text and proposes to reject it. Under § 40, there is a proposal of the MP Alexander Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the importer's text and proposes to reject it. Proposal of the National Representative Alexander Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 44: ..................................................... The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union, with the exception of § 31, which shall enter into force within 6 months of its promulgation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u81	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote: the Commission's proposal to reject § 39 by importer, the Commission's proposal to reject § 40 by importer and the Commission's proposal to create a new § 44 by text on the Commission Report. Vote 101 MPs: for 98, no objection, abstention 3. The proposals have been adopted, with which we have concluded the second vote. One message: Dear MPs, a photo exhibition of the photographer Evgeni Kostadinov will be opened at the Club of the National Representative, dedicated to the visit of the Sofia Opera and Ballet in the Bolshoi Theatre in Moscow. All Members of the National Assembly are invited to attend the opening. Thirty minutes off the job. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u82	Honourable Members of the National Assembly, continue with the next item of our Work Programme: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE CIVIL PROCEEDING CODEX. Importer supplier Krum Zarkov and group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u83	Here you are, Mrs. Sabeva, to read the Committee on Legal Affairs Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u84	Madam President, honourable Members! I present to your attention. ♪ I can't believe on the first vote on a bill amending and supplementing The Civil Procedure Code, No 054-01-3, submitted by Krum Kostadinov Zarkov and a group of MPs on 15 January 2020. At its meeting held on 29 January 2020, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 054-01-3, submitted by Krum Kostadinov Zarkov and a group of MPs on 15 January 2020. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Danail Kirilov, Minister, and Mrs. Daniela Belchina, State Expert at the Department of Law and by the Supreme Judicial Council: Mrs. Daniela Marcheva, Member of the Supreme Court of Cassation: Mrs. Daria Prodanova, Deputy Chairman and Head of the Chamber of Commerce; by the Sofia City Court: Mr. Alexey Trifonov, Chairman, and Mr. Stefan Kyurkchiev, Vice-President; by the Sofia District Court: Mr. Konstantin Kunchev, Judge. The bill was presented by Mr. Zarkov. He pointed out that it creates a legal mechanism to ensure the functioning of the judicial system by introducing a ban on the use of procedural actions which do not comply with good manners and which express gross disrespect for the judiciary, court and parties in the process. Add that the Bill aims at limiting procedural actions which are rude, obscene, threatening and offensive, while not limiting access to a court of citizens and organisations. Mr. Zarkov noted that the Bill complements legislative amendments to the Law on the Judiciary, which prohibit the use of threats, offensive and obscene words or qualifications in judicial proceedings. The bill proposes the establishment of a general rule applicable to each stage of the process, according to which the use of rude and obscene words, insults and threats will result in this procedural act being deemed not to have been completed and, in the case of an application of such content, it is intended to be returned to the sender. The Minister of Justice expressed his support for the Bill and noted that the proposals are a regular consequence of the changes undertaken in the Law on the Judiciary and could be considered an equivalent provision in the Administrative Procedure Code. Mr. Kirilov added that the procedural actions in open court proceedings and especially oral statements reveal a different dynamic than the written statements of the parties and should comply with that difference. Ms. Marcheva expressed her gratitude on behalf of the College of Judges of the Supreme Judicial Council for the proposed legislative changes and noted that they reflect many years of difficulties in the activities of the Bulgarian courts. Mr. Trifonov, Mr. Kyurkchiev and Mr. Kunchev said that the changes will help to impose the standard of conduct owed to the participants in the process. People's representatives Anna Alexandrova, Christian Mitev, Yavor Notev, Philip Popov and Krum Zarkov took part in the discussion. Mr. Mitev expressed his support for the Bill and added that between his first and second votes, editorials can be proposed to refine the texts. Mr. Notev supported the idea of the importers by expressing his opinion that there should be no excessive restriction of the right to protection. He noted that the intended consequences of the country's indecent and rude conduct in the process should not apply to the rights and subject matter in the dispute. In response to the questions asked, MPs Filip Popov and Krum Zarkov pointed out that the bill provides for institutional control when returning the application and added that the proposed changes guarantee the right of citizens and organizations to access to court. They clarified that, in the case of insulting and obscene statements within the framework of a process initiated, the party which used them has the opportunity to repeat the procedural act subject to due respect to the court and the parties within the time limit. Ms. Alexandrova thanked the guests for the views expressed and added that when drafting the final version of the texts all arguments and considerations will be taken into account. As a result of the discussion held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 18 votes in favour, without the votes of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, proposed to the National Assembly to support the Law amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 054-01-3, submitted by Krum Kostadinov Zarkov and a group of MPs on 15 January 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u85	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sabeva. With Mr. Zarkov's motives, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u86	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The report of the Legal Committee was precise and detailed so that in just a few words I can explain and specify the reasons which led to this bill. Many of you may not know this, but in the past few years, there has been an extremely alarming trend in procedural actions made to the court, including when filing claims, to use abusive allegations, threats, insults, cynical expressions that are directed both to the defendant and to the court itself and to the magistrates. The use of this unacceptable language does not reveal simply and simply a lack of education by the perpetrators of such actions, but its use is indecent conduct in the courtroom, which prevents the whole process from developing normally. He has largely clogged up our courtrooms and prevented the judges from doing what they are called to do, namely to bring justice to justice. With the authors of the Bill, we measured the norms very carefully so that no restriction on citizens' rights of access to court can be reached. These rights, as you know, have been proclaimed both in our Constitution and in the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights, and we in the motives, if you have met, have quoted enough practice that says when and under what conditions they can be restricted. In fact, the right can be restricted when there is an obvious abuse of it, and these expressions, you will agree, constitute a sufficiently serious indication that the person who stands trial does not seek protection of his rights, but seeks to insult, threaten or hinder justice in any way. Just two words about the political context, because it is worth noting. In the Legal Committee we reached full consensus on this bill and I express my gratitude to the MPs from GERB, who defended the idea, including the Minister of Justice, who supported it. This is actually a continuation of action that began a few weeks ago on a proposal from the DPS group, and from Mr Hamid, who I see here in the front row when we put a similar principle norm in the Judicial Law. However, this rule, in order to produce a real effect, also requires procedural laws to be brought into line with it. Today we are doing this with regard to the civil process, where, unfortunately, this phenomenon is most widespread. In the Commission, we agreed that we would continue this work with regard to other procedural laws, which are different specifics, namely the Administrative Process and the Criminal Procedure. Both the Supreme Judicial Council and the magistrates of the Supreme Court and the Sofia City Court supported us. If we take a step today to support this bill unanimously, as we did in the Legal Commission, starts and actually continues a common work, a common activity of this Parliament, in which we will together take important steps, so that the courtroom becomes that place where people seek and receive justice, and the magistrates are confident that they will have all the tools to discipline the countries that do not understand exactly where they have gone. Therefore, I hope that we will support this consensus, then with a working group and precisely at a normal pace, to complete this joint work to the end. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u87	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Colleagues, you have a say in this. I can't see. I will put to the first vote the Bill amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, importer Krum Zarkov and a group of MPs on 15 January 2020. They voted 114 MPs: for 114, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Moving on to item six on the agenda: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE ADVANTAGE OF SOCIAL AND SOLIDAR ECONOMICS. With the report of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, Mrs. Angelova will introduce us. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u88	♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Enterprises of Social and Solidar Economy, No 054-01-2, submitted by Alexander Mairov Siddi and Kalin Nikolov Popovski on 14 January 2020. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a regular meeting held on 22 January 2020 discussed and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Enterprises of the Social and Solidar Economy. The meeting was attended by Sultanka Petrova, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy. The bill was presented by the MP Alexander Siddy. The proposal for a change is made in relation to the government's priorities for reducing the administrative burden. The aim of the bill is to reduce the number of required documents to be entered in the Register of Social Enterprises. This register was created in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and is kept and maintained by it. With the entry into force of the new paragraph of the Bill, it will help to use the information already collected by the state administration for natural and legal persons without the need to collect the same information from several institutions for different purposes. RegiX will verify the necessary information submitted by applicants for registration in the Register of Social Enterprises through the transport scheme of between registration exchanges (RegiX). A preliminary assessment of the impact of the bill has been applied to the Bill. The Commission received the opinions of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the Ministry of Finance. Both opinions shall be supported and the Ministry of Finance shall propose an editorial amendment to the wording of paragraph 1. The discussion was attended by the MPs Nadia Klisurska, Georgi Gokov and Hasan Ademov. It commented on the environment for inter-registered exchange, which provides an opportunity to implement an interface for automated submission and service of standardized requests for administrative services by electronic means. At the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: 18 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Enterprises of Social and Solidar Economy, No 054-01-2, submitted by Alexander Siddy and Kalin Popovski on 14 January 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u89	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. Will we have an importer's opinion? Here you go, Mr. Popovski.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u90	Madam President, honourable Members! The report by the Social Committee that you have heard makes it pretty much clear the essence of this draft law. This is a small, but very important correction for the work of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy in the registration of social enterprises to have the right to use the RegiX system, which is extremely important for reducing the administrative burden and facilitating the work in this registration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u91	Thank you, dear Mr. Popovski. Statements, coworkers? Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u92	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We, from the parliamentary group of GERB, will support the bill of colleagues Popovski and Siddi regarding changes in the Law on Enterprises of the Social and Solidar Economy. This change gives the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy as an applicant reason to require access to the information collected and known by the National Revenue Agency available in the relevant registers administered by the NRA in the inter-registered exchange environment. Under the Law on Enterprises of Social and Solidar Economy, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy leads the Register of Social Enterprises. This change will lead to a reduction in the number of documents required for registration in the Register, a reduction in the time limits for the provision of the administrative service issuing a certificate for registration of a social enterprise, an extension of the possibilities for submitting documents electronically and, above all, a reduction in the administrative burden for natural and legal persons who are subject to the Law on Enterprises of the Social and Solidar Economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-05.u93	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote, fellow Members. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Enterprises of Social and Solidar Economy, No 054-01-2, submitted by Alexander Siddy and Kalin Popovski on 14 January 2020. They voted 112 MPs: 112, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, we've run out of agendas with this. Regular plenary sittings tomorrow, 6 February 2020, at 9.00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
