ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u1	Good afternoon, Members of the House! There's a quorum, I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Honourable Members of the National Assembly with regard to the requirements of art. 5, para. 4 in connection with para. 1, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for voting on a proposal for early release of the President of the National Assembly at the first meeting after the day of his entry and his inclusion in the weekly Programme for the work of the National Assembly and on the grounds of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the following additional points be included in the Programme: Draft Decision for early release of Tsveta Valcheva Karayancheva from the position of President of the National Assembly. Importer "Cornelia Nino" and a group of MPs on 14 October 2020, and I propose to become the first item in the Program for today's meeting "October 15th 2020. And Report on the activities of the Prosecutor's Office on the implementation of the law in the period January "August 2020" according to the decision of the National Assembly of 23 July 2020. Importer Please, voting mode. Vote 149 MPs: for 145, against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u2	Dear Members of Parliament, we begin today with the first point of our program for the day: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO PRE-FLOW-FLOW-FLOWER CARAYANCHEVA BY AN ENTIRE PRESENT OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. Importer (s) Cornellia Ninova and group of MPs on 14 October 2020 Dear Mrs. Ninova, you have the floor to present the reason for the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u3	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As we announced yesterday, we are submitting a request for Mrs Karayancheva's resignation for at least five reasons. The first, ignorance of the Constitution and non-compliance with the laws of the Republic of Bulgaria, as is the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. With her first speech before the National Assembly Mrs. Karayancheva gave evidence of this by saying that the MPs here are representatives only of the regions from which they were elected. As we know, under the Constitution each elected MP represents the entire Bulgarian people. The second reason we want the resignation is to violate the principle of separation of powers and control of the legislative over the executive power. For one year, the Prime Minister has not come to Parliament for parliamentary control. His last participation was in November 2019. Despite our repeated requests for a hearing by Prime Minister Mrs. Karayancheva always found a way not to normally happen with the justification that the Prime Minister is busy. And very often on the same day on which the National Assembly called on him, we have seen what his employment is expressing around the country with the jeep and handout, absolutely outside the rules, the budget procedure of funds collected by all taxpayers, for party, political or election campaign purposes. Parliamentary control carried out by the MPs of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria is repeatedly underestimated, the questions are rejected, postponed and not only answered by the Prime Minister, but also by the ministers of the cabinet. Next, a gross violation of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, which, as I said, is a law by decision of the Constitutional Court. Since 2017, legislations submitted by the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria are unvisited, unvoked in the Chamber, including bills that are extremely important, such as the Old People's Law or multiannual savings deposits, which affects a large number of Bulgarians, or our repeated request for changes to the Criminal and Criminal Procedure Code, which would contribute to greater transparency and an effective fight against corruption. I will not list all 22 bills that stand somewhere on logs in Mrs. Karayancheva's office and are not considered by the Chamber. On the other hand, bills are regularly introduced 24 hours before the Parliament meeting and are urgently seen in the Chamber or because there is lobbying interest behind them and someone eagerly wants to pass the amendment quickly, or because within 24 hours you are in a hurry to correct the mistakes you make in the legislative process, despite our warnings, arguments and demands that you do not do so. You have imposed an extremely harmful practice between first and second reading of lawmakers to submit amendments that have nothing to do with the spirit of the law. And even more harmful in the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Bills to amend other laws that have nothing to do with it, including yesterday's case, which we set as an example in the Marks Act, to amend the Emergency Act, and to reverse it. It is no coincidence that the complaints submitted by us to the Constitutional Court for the unconstitutional nature of these actions, these texts, are often respected and the texts are declared unconstitutional. Of course, not least, we believe that with words, with conduct, with self-assessment Ms Karayancheva puts a stain on the authority of the National Assembly. It is absolutely unacceptable when you do not like the highways or do not like the construction of Boyko Borisov, I quote: "Hodie on foot, was it. "This is an insult to the Bulgarian people regardless of the absolutely unacceptable explanation that it was made at a party meeting of GERB in Lom. And you saw the reaction of the Bulgarian people. This is an insult to all Bulgarian citizens, whose funds are used to build these highways, and allow us to assume from whom funds are stolen from these highways. [[Noise and lines from GERB: "Eee! "]] Even more unacceptable is the behavior of Mrs. Karayancheva at the moment when she received an ugly, cynical and unacceptable assessment from her own leader. I am talking about that conversation in which she is defined as a Kardzhali woman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u4	Let's not go into yellow, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u5	No, I will not quote, although it would be an accurate quote from the words of the Prime Minister and Mrs Karayancheva's own leader.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u6	It hasn't been proven.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u7	In this regard, the most normal behavior then was to resign to defend the honour of parliament and the dignity of Bulgarian women. Instead, she wrote on her Facebook wall: I believe Boyko Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u8	What kind of violation is that?!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u9	She can trust him with that assessment. This is her choice, her own self-destruction, but we do not want with our presence any more, at this place the President of the National Assembly, to humiliate the institution and not to think at all about the dignity of Bulgarian women. For these and other reasons that you see in the reasons that I assume that the colleagues of the DPS will present after me, we strongly insist that Ms Karayancheva release the position in the name of two things: the authority of the institution National Assembly, which, thanks to you in recent years and to her personally, is at the lowest level; restoring trust in the institution, strengthening the legislative process, making it a serious, consistent and effective work. Last but not least, which I personally hold as a woman, in the name of the protection of dignity and the honour of Bulgarian women, we demand resignation. [[Noise and lines from GERB and applause from BSP for Bulgaria and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u10	Thank you. Let's get back to work, guys. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Mr. Karadayi.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u11	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We demand the early release of Ms Karayancheva due to systematic failure to comply with her duties as President of the National Assembly, violation of the Constitution, undermining the prestige of the National Assembly and undermining the foundations of parliamentaryism and democracy. Of course, in 10 years we have understood that GERB are unrivalled in their arrogance and therefore will hardly be corrected. Leaning on the mantra we are very strong, GERB will wait for the vote to pass and the self-forget will continue on the way, but will miss the opportunity to show that it can be corrected and precisely GERB, who are so afraid of a service cabinet, to make it inevitable. All this will lead to instability in the country and every next government must have, firstly, a rescue plan under conditions unknown to the country for 20 years or more. Tsveta Karayancheva is a vivid personification of GERB and with her last appearances proves it. Aggressive speech, arrogant behavior and sharp tone will remain the main characteristics of GERB in recent years. Hate and aggression, division and opposition are in power and rule over recent years. [[GERB lines]] When you have no capacity, expertise, vision, aggression, hatred and arrogance remain, honourable colleagues from GERB. Of course, your populism is included. [[Heckling]] This will not help Ms. Karayancheva and GERB to remain in power, because Bulgarian citizens do not want anyone else to instruct them and to call them. [[Heckling]] In any case GERB will remain misunderstood and dissatisfied. The lady herself either doesn't understand what this is about or she's taken herself too seriously and completely forgotten herself. The criticism of citizens answers that she had arguments. She still thinks today that the request for her resignation is just an act of opposition and will pass. Moreover, Karayancheva is trying to duplicate the behaviour of the strongly advocated prime minister and president on the political stage in an attempt to stand out and win dividends. That's not what she's given, and the result is a blunder after a blunder. Forgetting or ignoring that you are president of parliament in a parliamentary republic and pretending to be a neighborhood party functionary means committing a political crime against the republic. This story won't forgive! [[Noise and lines.]] The truth hurts, doesn't it? [[Noise and lines.]] The next National Assembly, honourable Members of the National Assembly, and the next cabinet will not be the same for those like Ms. Karayancheva. [[Relations from the National Representative Vejdi Rashidov.]] It would be good, regardless of the outcome, Mr. Rashidov, for the vote on our request, for Karayancheva's personality and behavior to be taught by all of us, and by you, Mr. Rashidov, and by you, honourable colleagues from GERB. We DPS believe that. [[Heckling]] We believe in the precise assessment of the Bulgarian voters. We believe that persons such as Ms. Karayancheva and Karayanchevtina have no place in the Bulgarian Parliament and in Bulgarian politics. [[noise and lines]] In the name of parliamentaryism, in the name of statehood, in the name of the future of Bulgaria, we from DPS will vote confidently for the release of Ms. Karayancheva as President of the National Assembly. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u12	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. - What's the line? We are continuing with the speeches by Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u13	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I listened very carefully to the statements of the leaders of the BSP and the DPS. And yesterday and that night... [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u14	Colleagues, please! Mr. Tanner Ali! [[Loud noise and lines.]] Please, guys! [[Noise and lines.]] Yes, I understand that, but show respect for yourself and your colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u15	I'm running out of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u16	I'll keep that in mind. Please continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u17	My fellow Members, I listened very carefully to Mrs. Ninova and Mr. Karadayi. Since I expected such statements, I will tell you why, I have bothered these days to check the resignations of all MPs in the years of the transition of the late Stefan Savov, and Sokolov was once asked for his resignation, and of whomever. A simple resignation of the President of the National Assembly, firstly, I noticed that it is always required a few months before the elections. That's mandatory. Secondly, I noticed that the speeches.. so I listened very carefully to them, who spoke the leaders of the two parties, are a copy-play of what they were saying 10 years ago, other MPs who wanted the resignation of some President of the National Assembly. Absolute Copi-Pest doesn't understand legislation, can't control parliament, doesn't know the laws, I also add to the Constitution the basic Law doesn't know, arrogant or arrogant, treats the opposition badly. The exact same motives in all these 30 years when the resignation of the President of the National Assembly is requested. Now it's personal. I do not want to make my speech as a political statement, I want it to sound human and sincere. I've always been honest, I'll tell you at least I can be accused by colleagues from BSP and DPS in some great sympathization specifically to the Plovdiv organization of GERB, but Karayancheva case is quite different. I repeat, the Karayancheva case is completely different. Firstly, for this man, for this politician, whom I am extremely fond of in politics after 28 years, for this politician, I say because Bulgaria is a small country and everything knows that since being a politician she has not stolen a single penny from the state. That's what I'm saying! [[Noise and lines.]] Unlike other leaders of other parties from the village of Krushovica, who became privatists when they were 28 years old. [[Applause from GERB and "United Patriarchs."]] Now go to Kardzhali and ask for it. Part of my family is from Kardzhali. Go to Kardzhali and ask for it. Mr. Karadayi's statement has provoked me quite a bit. We consider the DPS an experienced party, although they are our main opponent, you know, about the Patriots. You didn't realize how you were walking into a trap, both you and BSP, and you are turning the President of the National Assembly into a martyr right now. [[Laughter and lines from BSP for Bulgaria and DPS.]] Yeah, that's what I'm telling you, and there's nothing more frightening about making a politician a martyr, and you'll understand that. Nothing scarier in politics has made me a Plovdiv martyr and 10 years can't handle it. It's the truth! So, first of all, Ms. Karayancheva is not a corrupt politician, which is most important to me, unlike many here in this room! [[Applause from GERB and "United Patriarchs."]] Secondly, all this ridiculousness that she was rude, that she was rude to the MPs is absolutely fiction. On the contrary, colleagues! [[Relations from the National Representative Philip Popov.]] Take the word and disprove me, but it's not nice to interrupt me, it's not polite. On the contrary, colleagues, I will tell you that at times it is too soft and that is why some of you are getting on her head. I will not push it too softly at times as President of the National Assembly. Finally, why are DPS colleagues so aggressively attacking her? It's very simple, I told you, my family is from Kardzhali and I've talked to many of my relatives...................the DPS had a full monopoly in Kardzhali.. their fortress, full mandates of the DPS. Isn't that right, colleagues from the DPS? [[DPS lines.]] That's right! She showed up in 2009, and what happened? One more young girl and now a good-looking one became a member of parliament from Kardzhali! And since 2009! [[Applause.]] You understand, colleagues from the DPS, it hurts you very much that your fortress broke through. You're in a lot of pain! I wonder at Mr. Karadaye....so experienced politician....he lost his temper....and started insulting her like a woman. And this story about the famous things with which women were offended and so on see, colleagues, let us know which geographical widths we live on. [[Noise and lines.]] Listen, we're not... [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] All right, get it over with, and I'll move on. [[Heckling]] We are neither England with 400 years of democratic institutions, nor France. I'll just tell you that from this sacred tribune, unfortunately, much, much harsher things have been said, and not personally to a politician. I've been called so many times! Take a Plovdiv press and you will see in articles, especially before elections! But I will tell you one thing, of this tribune, the Patriarch of Bulgarian Literature, together with Ivan Vazov, also considers Pencho Slaveykov, says: "Not a people, but a carrion! " He's still great! [[Noise and lines.]] From this tribune, he says! He's still great! Everyone makes mistakes, are you infallible, colleagues?! Are you infallible? I can name 50 people who have said much harsher things! What about a professor I have great respect for, what did he say? The Bulgarians are retarded, and the Bulgarians are decomposed. [[Noise and lines.]] Is that right?! That's right. Then why didn't you resign?! Why?! Why didn't you ask for his resignation?! [[Noise and lines.]] What about DPS colleagues?! Mostly, I'm asking you. You're supposed to be the fates of parliament, aren't you?! Why didn't you ask this person who said that:.80% of the Bulgarian people were retarded?! [[Heckling]] Then, just a week ago, he said they were infidels. Just a week ago! Colleagues, my parliamentary group will strongly support Karayancheva. Last, I will tell you: do not fall for these Parliament's rates. The parliament has had much lower rates. During the time of Jean Videnov, 6%; during the end of Ivan Kostov, 6% again. It's the truth! I've been in this profession for many years because a politician is a profession and I know a lot of things. Parliament has always been attacked in every country! Always! It's no coincidence that an Italian parliament means a spokesperson! Parlare, talk! [[Heckling]] None of the Bulgarian people, I repeat, do not like spoken ones, only that is not the fault of the President of the National Assembly. It is the first between equals, it cannot stop the nonsense of some of us when we are going to speak and when we are going to fight. What should the chairman do?! Arrest you?! [[Heckling]] First between equals! It is not up to the President that we really embarrass ourselves in front of the whole people at some point. Colleagues, more carefully and I think that you have made a gross mistake by asking for the resignation of this President in particular, you have simply entered into a political trap. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u18	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. - What's the line? Three lines. Here you go, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u19	Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Atanasov! This tribune, which we often call with the cliche this tall tribune, is one of those places where words become reality, or they don't become reality, they become good reality or bad, and that's why it's important what we say. When we talk about the President of the National Assembly, whoever he is, I have said it several times, but I would like to stress it, we do not compare the President with you or me. Each President of the National Assembly compares himself with a long list of those among whom they are, not as you believe Pencho Slaveykov, but Petko Slaveykov, but together with him are Stefan Stambolov, Ivan Evstatiev Gesov, Petko Karavelov and a bunch of others. And by the way, Pancho Slaveykov didn't say that in this room, he wrote it. There was another Slaveykov in the hall, but not this one. Those are some of the words we say, we need to have more information when we talk. And that is why I took your cue, because the ideas you said, but you say: "They very much like it in Kardzhali. " - Well, yes, she is the President of the National Assembly, not the Deputy Mayor of Kardzhali. Yes, I don't mind her being a good woman. The question is to what extent political ideas, democracy and parliamentaryism become those words that change deeds for good. Because my concern is that you, under the wise leadership of Mrs Karayancheva, have turned the political elite into a political swamp, this swamp that is currently dragging you down. You're responsible for what you say, you can't just say, "Well, good woman!" She's good, but we're not marrying her! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u20	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Atanasov, several times you mentioned Kardzhali and explicitly pointed out that you have roots in Kardzhali. Unlike you, Mrs. Karayancheva has no Kardzhali roots. And in that recording, whose voice resembled the prime minister's, there's one technical error, the word is "Kurdzhaliyska."
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u22	We're going in yellow again, Mr. Mehmet.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u23	And never in the last 30 years...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u24	Don't go in there.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u25	...no Prime Minister of Bulgaria has allowed himself to insult Kardzhali. During all these years many candidates for MPs have passed from Kardzhali, they have been elected worthy people for MPs, but Kardzhali has never been ashamed of these elected MPs. [[Laughter]] Ms. Karayancheva is represented with GERB, but not with Kardzhali. I can say it with conviction, because with confidence I can say that I represent 75% of Kardzhali's people. [[(Applause by DPS and cheering by GERB:]] I'm sorry, Mr. Atanasov. As our chairman says, sometimes the truth hurts, but when one has the courage to speak certain truths...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u26	Thank you, Mr. Mehmet. Your time is over. Please complete the statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u27	My last sentence, Mr. Chairman, is to Mrs. Karayancheva: sorry, Mrs. Karayancheva, you are not at the height of this position. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u28	Third line, Mr. Rashidov. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I thought he wanted a line. Third line. Colleagues, we're all tense, I understand.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mrs Karayancheva! Mr. Chairman, we really need to calm down, there is nothing dramatic about half the parliamentary groups wanting the President's resignation. I came out here to make a line for Mr. Atanasov. Mr. Atanasov, you have reached the bottom today with this statement. I didn't see that coming. I have respected you very much as a parliamentarians. Now I'm going to start with your speech in order, motive on motive, to see why I'm saying these words. You say that you have analyzed all the requests of votes over the last 30 years and that the reasons were the same, that the statements were the same. Mr. Atanasov, he and the Rules of the National Assembly are the same, she and the Constitution are the same, she and the work of the President of the National Assembly in the 1930s is the same and it is: to give equality to the Members of the National Assembly, to respect the laws of the State, to comply with the Rules of the National Assembly, where it is clearly written how laws are tabled, how laws are passed, how laws are tabled between first and second readings, which laws are admissible and which are not admissible. There, in the Rules, it is written, and it is thirty years old, and when it is violated, the MPs protest. It has been written for 30 years that the prime minister of parliamentary control should come to parliament and that it should not be hidden from the President of Parliament, but that prime minister has been missing for a year now. That's why the motives are the same. They can't be different. The only thing the President has to do is respect the Constitution and the Rules of the National Assembly. Then no one will have any arguments to ask for the resignation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u30	Mr. Svilensky, you're running out of time. Please finish your thought!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u31	Mr. Atanasov, the second charge...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u32	Thank you. Your time is over, Mr. Svilensky, and that concludes your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u33	I'll continue in my speech. I'm sorry, Mr. Atanasov, you're gonna have to give me a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u34	Mr. Atanasov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u35	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! My dear opponents, I will not go into detail of all that you have said. First of all, because I don't have enough time. Second... I'll tell you about some things. First of all, I was not impressed by the speeches for several reasons: the classic cliches of experienced politicians the first. Secondly, petko Rachov Slaveykov and so on. [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria]] Well, yeah. Yes, colleagues! Yes, colleagues, it's human to be wrong. It's human to be wrong! Pencho and... It's just, yeah, it's human to be wrong. Only God is sinless. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Are you infallible?! So these are petty pickles. Colleagues, understand, the essence is different, and this is the essence I'm going to tell you with one Roman expression and I'm going to end it, as I said four days ago. Colleagues, you have walked into a trap: "Sic transit glaria mundi" translated means: "This is how your world glory will pass." [[Single applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u36	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Mr. Rashidov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u37	Dear Mr. Chairman! Today is another farce with which, rest assured, you have not only ruined the authority of the Bulgarian Parliament, but you have almost closed it. Shame! An unworthy debate. To the DPS colleagues. 2009 I was the leader of the list and majority, so don't blame Ms. Karayancheva. The title of Bastion was mine, and to let you know, I spent all my youth in all the elections to the DPS until I was in one way or another slightly betrayed. I've been extremely helpful to your honorary chairman as well. And when Mr. Karadaye wasn't Kevin Costner yet, I was at the DPS. I notice that when you buy more expensive glasses than the leader, you always fall out of power, so he changed his glasses like Lutvi Mestan. [[Laughter and applause from GERB and OP.]] Mrs. Ninova, enough with the love for Boyko Borisov. Every day you want Boyko Borisov to come to you. If he wants to come, he'll come if he doesn't want to, not if you don't like it. What's this spark between you two?! Invite him to a restaurant and talk man to man. Secondly, the debate today is not whether Tsveta Karayancheva has offended parliament, the debate today should be that Elena Yoncheva insulted the entire Bulgarian state. Today's debate is to be recalled. [[Applause from GERB.]] These things elude you and we deal with internal affairs because the street was yours. It is neither yours nor it is ours, it is the Bulgarian state, and whoever defiled it this street, it is responsible for this debate. What are you debating?! Let's shut down this parliament. Everything that can be respectful to parliament has fallen anyway. Let's all be ashamed, that's what you've brought him to! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u38	Thank you, Mr. Rashidov. - What's the line?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Rashidov, my respects to you, you know that I respect you, but your speech had nothing to do with this. You did not say a word on the reasons of the importers for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the law not applied, the insult to the Bulgarian citizens. You said that the Prime Minister, if he wants to meet with the parliamentary group, should do it in a pub. Do you want us to move parliament to a pub?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u40	It was with Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u41	Mr. Rashidov, the Prime Minister's job is to be here. Here, they've given him special seats. He has not come to this parliament for a year and you keep saying that we should invite him to pubs, restaurants or anywhere. No, here he must come and speak to the Bulgarian citizens, and speak to you, and speak to us, and say what he is doing with this country that has been ruining it for 10 years, and people are on the street, and protesting and demanding his resignation. But you don't understand that, Mr. Rashidov. This meeting in a restaurant will not be decided, will be decided here in this hall, carrying the resignation, dismissing the post and then we can meet at any restaurant and any restaurant in which he wishes. I guess that's the Prime Minister's mentality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u42	Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u43	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Sir Rashidov! When we talk about resigning, and when at least five arguments are made out of this tribune about why this resignation is required, it is absolutely baseless to talk about something that is normally irrelevant to the motives. I expect from you, by the way, I also address everyone else who will speak in favour of not resigning from Ms. Karayancheva, focusing on the motives and trying to disprove them. I understand it's hard, I understand it's impossible. I understand that you won't be able to do this, but at least try a little bit on the grounds that we can respect parliamentaryism. Everything else you say has nothing to do with either these motives or whether Mrs Karayancheva is doing her job right. You talk to each other in general, you say things you've memorized, you say things that aren't true. Moreover, Mr. Rashidov, we did not depose the authority of parliament today. The behaviour of the President of the Parliament, his low self-esteem, that he cannot manage the legislative process, that brings down the credibility of parliament. Otherwise, your statement reminds me of the fact that the food is spoiled because they haven't eaten it, and maybe we don't eat it because it's broken. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u44	Mr. Rashidov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u45	Dear Mr. Chairman! I will try to tell you as if you didn't understand me, but you also have no desire to understand that when you should have, and when there is a need, the Prime Minister always comes. The Bulgarian Prime Minister is not on call. He's not part of the ring road. You want every call to appear to the Prime Minister. When he needed to, he appeared. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] What's your problem? What I did to Mrs. Ninova is that she keeps repeating about the Prime Minister, and if there are so many passions between them, explain themselves somewhere like men. That's what I said. [[Reply from MP Philip Popov.]] As for corruption, you did not point to a single corruption. Edna! Just a mantra who? Tell me, who's the corrupt one here? Put your finger on it! You're doing the same thing. The street doesn't belong to you, don't use it, don't privatize it! It's not yours! It's not ours either, and that's why we're not there. Don't use it. Second of all, what hasn't been done? I'll tell you from this tribune and remember I was going to read it to you. From Georgi Yordanov you have been in power many times. Can you point one thing out to me at the time of anyone? One. I can tell you what's done, but I won't have half a day's time. Saying that nothing has been done does you no honor. I'd rather ask you, what did you do? Show me one thing you've done, except you talk all day. It's a job to lacrosse. It's a more constructive profession, though, to create. Some people learned to talk, but they didn't invent an ice cream in their lives. What's not done? What are you accusing me of? What do you want to do? Theatres ten, repaired; archaeology from morning to evening. Why don't you take the pope somewhere else and take him to Largo? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Museums New 6, haven't been done in 60 years. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] What do you want to do for you?! Thank you. Talk a lot when you have a lot done. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u46	Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Please extend the group time. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Mrs. Kardzhali martyr!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u48	Excuse me?! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Look at this as a colleague, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u49	Torture! I quote my colleague, Mr. Chairman. Don't interrupt me another time!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u50	I'll cut you off! Be tolerant, be polite to your colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u51	What's wrong with using the gentleman's quote? [[Reply from MP Slavcho Atanasov.]] Colleagues, here's some facts. You wanted concrete facts. According to the provision of art. 46, para. 4 of the Election Code: The President, Vice-Presidents and Secretary of the Central Election Commission shall be elected by the National Assembly on the basis of a proposal under art. 47, para. 2, p. 1.................................................................................. The National Assembly shall be a body of election and appointment within the meaning of this text, colleagues, and within the meaning of art. 35, para. 2 of the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. An incompatibility declaration for the post held shall be submitted to the appointing authority and, following their submission, the appointing authority shall verify the existence or absence of such information. When the body, colleagues, is collective, it has its representation. As we all know, the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria clearly states in art. 77, para. 1 who represents the National Assembly. As we will see below, as regards one Vice-President of the Central Election Commission, such an examination has not been carried out within the statutory deadline. Colleagues, no such inspection has been carried out after this period to this day. This rude violation of the law by the representing body of election or appointment, not carrying out an inspection, constitutes an independent basis for the early release of Ms. Karayancheva as Chairman of the National Assembly. Next, on 11 June 2019 a signal was received in the Ministry of Justice of the National Assembly, addressed to the President of the National Assembly, to the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria and to the Anti-Corruption Commission, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics at the National Assembly. The signal shows information about the employment relationship as Head of Department of one of the Bulgarian universities of a person elected Vice-President of the Central Election Commission and which, colleagues, leads to incompatibility with the position held in the CEC. To this day, the appointing authority has not pronounced whether or not there is an incompatibility. The choice body is this room, colleagues. He's not any expert, he's not... [[Noise and lines from OP.]] Mr. Chairman, ask them: if they don't have a flock of sheep, buy them a flock of sheep for these shepherds.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u52	I'm listening carefully. Don't get carried away, Mr. Hamid. I'm waiting for you with the introduction.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u53	Next, on 8 November 2019 a second signal from the same citizen, addressed to the President of the National Assembly and to the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, was received in the National Assembly. The alert shall indicate information on the same Vice-President of the Central Election Commission, which shall be based on facts established in an undisputed manner by the Commission to counter corruption and the seizure of illegally acquired property. As a result of this verification, the Commission has found that there is a second employment relationship which proves that there is incompatibility. Again, however, the authority has not pronounced whether or not there is one. Instead, experts in one of the subsidiary committees of the same body conclude that there is no incompatibility, and the chair of that committee deliberately misleads the members of the Commission that it is about teaching work which is undoubtedly authorised by law. However, the President in question's actions are subject to another alert and other proceedings. By its inaction on this signal, the representing authority of choice calls into question all decisions, votes and adopted acts of a collective body such as the Central Election Commission and, hence, all those bodies declared elected by the Central Election Commission with a member having reasonable doubts of incompatibility. Last but not least, in Mrs Karajancheva's letter to all parliamentary groups, she once again declared that she would not fulfil her statutory obligations and would not raise the issue of consideration in plenary because, notice, there was no text to oblige her. Unfortunately, we can note that this arrogance and gross violation of the laws of the Republic of Bulgaria is not only characteristic of Ms. Karayancheva, but for the entire management of GERB all these years. If Ms. Karayancheva remembers anything at all, it will be with the brief but strong assessment of her party president, which became known to all Bulgarian citizens. However, we do not agree with him on the word that my colleague just said. There is no place for the word "Kurdzhali" in the definition.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u54	Your favorite became everyone's...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u55	That's where our disagreement with the Prime Minister ends.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u56	...to use yellows from the stands. Please, Mr. Hamid!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u57	The rest we all agree on. As a complete self-assessment sound the ancient words of Mrs. Karayancheva: Of course, according to her and her explanations, she is there only as a party worker and not as President of the National Assembly. Missing, of course, to say that she got there on the passenger train, not the NTAC cars and escort guards. The President of the National Assembly shall, in addition to his duties as ordinary MP under art. 155, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly also has institutional obligations towards the parliamentary institution to establish the institutional and political authority of the National Assembly as a legislative body. As we can see from Lom, Mrs Karayancheva is brilliantly handling this task and lowers the authority of the National Assembly lower than a workshop for the production of garden metal products. Although very late, proposing Ms. Karayancheva as President of the National Assembly, the management of GERB had to explain to Ms. Karayancheva that the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and the laws should be respected every day, both on Saturday and in Lom. That's the way it is, guys. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u58	- What's the line? Mr. Tzipov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u59	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Today from this tribune I want to address Mrs. Karayancheva and tell her: Mrs. Karayancheva, you have not lost the confidence of the majority that has chosen you! [[Private applause from GERB.]] Today we will quite confidently vote against the draft decision on your early release. In this way we will give our support to you because we appreciate your qualities, Mrs Karayancheva, which you possess, and the ability to lead this Parliament. Very often you show these qualities in a way that does not even go to a President of the National Assembly. I am sure that you will also receive the support of other parliamentary groups that have not submitted this draft decision, perhaps to non-member MPs in parliamentary groups. More importantly, Ms. Karayancheva, that you receive the support of many Bulgarian citizens. And this support is not from citizens who sympathise with the ruling majority. This is true, Ms. Karayancheva, because from the first moment of your election as MP and subsequently as President of the National Assembly, you visit both small and large settlements to talk to people to hear their problems in order to propose a solution to these problems. Dear Members of the National Assembly, we have often exchanged different lines in this Chamber, presented arguments where correct, where not quite. Of course, this is what we are actually seeing today in this Chamber. However, I do not expect anything else after we have heard the reasons for this draft decision. For example, as an argument there is a obstruction of normal legislative activity because you, Mrs. Karayancheva, as President, did not allow or delay the examination of the legislation submitted by the opposition in the face of the Bulgarian BSP. However, it has not become clear to us which of the above-mentioned powers in the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly corresponds to the so-called motives? That's one side. The other side, however, is to see, or to make any reference to how many of these bills, which are listed in the reasoning, are proposed to be examined in accordance with the Rules of Procedure? And there is one in art. 53. The answer here is clear for all of us: there is no way to accept such motives, honourable Members of the National Assembly. Colleagues, try to formulate really serious motives in order to debate and deal with them. With these motives, you actually admit that you may have decided until the regular elections at the end of March next year to look at similar solutions each week. I've got some bad news for you. It's not gonna happen. Tsveta Karajancheva will be chairman of the 44th National Assembly by the end of March next year! [[Extreme applause from GERB.]] To conclude, honourable Members, I call on you to vote against the early release of the President of the National Assembly, as there is no clear and motivated motive in this draft decision. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u60	Thank you, Mr. Tzipov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Simov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u61	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm not from Kardzhali, but fate has linked me to this city very permanently. And that is why I think that Mrs. Tsveta Karayancheva should immediately resign if she wants to be in harmony with everything that is said in this room and as motives, because not one person from Kardzhali, not a single citizen of this beautiful city, deserves to be stuck with such a stain. [[Reply from GERB: "Parachutist!"]] [[GERB noise and lines]] I say this in the name of all those dozens of people in Kardzhali who have called me in recent months to tell me that they feel uncomfortable because instead of saying: [[GERB noise and lines]] It's not just one thing. Here every one of these things has already become urban legends was recalled not only for the definition of Ms. Karayancheva, not only for her behavior in Lom and for her line. What about the ridiculous announcement of six old carpets of some supreme donation action that has outraged all the cultural figures in this country because the director of the Kardzhali theatre feels obliged to announce this as some sort of ancient donation?! Because that's Mrs Karayancheva's style in Kardzhali. Because we have heard many things here about how in her name... and what her authority in Kardzhali was. Well, go to Kardjali and see what he's like. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Go and see what its authority is - endless construction, endless handling of only personnel matters and no work for the city itself. This is not what the people of Kardzhali deserve! They don't deserve to be represented like this! They don't deserve it when they say, "Kardzhali, let people think of Tsveta Karayancheva!" They deserve something different!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u62	People decide, not you!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u63	Many other motives have been said here, but I will tell you only one thing about what happened to the journalists and Mrs Karayancheva's explanation why the journalists are stuck in the basement. Do you remember what she said? The project of the hall from the time of Georgi Pirinski was such. The very next day, she was found lying. The very next day it turned out that the project was different and when a speaker of parliament lied, he allowed himself to lie and was caught lying. Instead, here we listen to some moral essays, long statements about what a good person she was. I don't know what kind of person Ms. Karayancheva is, but as Parliament Speaker, she is an undisputed failure, so she must leave. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB. Partial applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u64	- What's the line? Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u65	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Simov, with all due respect, I don't understand what you understand about the concept of Kardzhali and especially the town of Kardzhali. I'm from Kardjali. In the center of Kardzhali until today sits the monument of my mother [[noise and lines]] Kadriye Letifova and Dimitar Dimov, honourable colleague.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u66	What's the name of the theater? What's the theater called?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u67	Kadriye Letifova. You're also Letifov [[turns to Halil Letifov]] Yeah, maybe he's named after you, maybe if you have great credit, it's probably you. Kardzhali is a very nice town and it's still a nice town. There are extremely clean and honest people living in Kardzhali. I grew up in this town, I walked barefoot on the streets, I sang songs, we created a theater, there was no Dimitar Dimov, the estrad came from Haskovo, and my mother personally made a state estrada and then became a theater. I also heard about the carpets. These carpets don't spin, you don't seem to know much about carpeting. A tissue carpet is measured as a value of an inch, and a carpet, the older it gets and walks, the more valuable it becomes. Go to Turkey a little bit, eat a Bosporus fish, see how new a carpet is and how much an old carpet costs. And a carpet, where apparently the MPs do not wash their shoes instead of getting dirty, better to go to the beautiful theatre of Kardzhali, where I, as minister, repaired the theatre and now indeed these carpets are a good gift to these people.. work as bees, this people must have their own spiritual life and wonderful to walk on nice and valuable carpets. Nothing bad has been done. They donated computers to the city. I've made free monuments in the city. [[Reply from DPS: "Bravo! "]] What should happen more in Kardzhali that you speak about Kardzhali? Now let's denigrate Karayancheva for working in Kardzhali. Well, it's a woman's job! What about the DPS? My friends...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u68	Your time is running out, Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u69	While she was co-ordinator at Kardzhali, the companies bloomed, everyone worked, there was steam. From the market to the canal, everything was done then. Thank you. [[(Reply from BSP for Bulgaria]] Don't go with Kardzhali, leave Kardzhali alone.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u70	Thank you, Mr. Rashidov. Mr. Mareshki, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u71	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Simov, maybe I wasn't going to say what I'm going to say, and I'm going to try to refrain from saying it the way it's written in some media. I'll be much more laconic, but you just dig the bottom, and the deeper you dig, the more your deeds come out of the time and the worst things for Bulgaria have happened in your time. Another is my line about donation. Six carpets or a church or a hospital doesn't matter. It's the fact of donation that matters. I looked into seeing, for example, one of the most prominent BSP leaders what he has donated in his life. I'll mention only one of them, but we can look into all of what they've donated in their lives, beyond the robberies that have been made over the years. So, the low pensions, the lack of what you're guilty of. I'm gonna go with one person, like my colleague Christian Vigenin. I have read, searched very long and see that the only thing he has given in his life is his love, purely comradely, purely political to the leader Sergey Stanishev. [[Laughter at GERB. Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Don't misunderstand me. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] But if that's the only thing you've ever done in your life, if that's the only thing you can brag about and only owe your career, what right do you have to criticize other people who have given something of themselves, helped someone to live a little better? Thank you. [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u72	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. Is there a third line? Mr. Simov, the dodger.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u73	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Rashidov, I don't know what to say to your line, except for an essay on the topic: The contribution of Vezdi Rashidov in world history and Bulgarian politics! Yes, I'm not from Kardzhali, I'm proud that the people of this town have welcomed me as theirs and continue to welcome me as theirs. [[Noise, lines and partial applause by GERB.]] Come to see how many people come to share some of the things Mrs Karayancheva has done for the city itself. This is a subject of a separate debate. We can talk about what and how, and what exactly is Ms Karayancheva famous for in the city? As for Mr. Mareshki seriously, I feel sorry for you, they put the software on you to speak against BSP. One of the reasons, by the way, that you have no place on this stage. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u74	Thank you. Mrs. Atanasova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u75	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Karayancheva! Dear fellow importers of the request for the resignation of the President of the Bulgarian Parliament, I have read carefully the reasons and I am quite surprised by their incomplete and lack of arguments. There was too much talk today about Mrs. Karayancheva in her personal capacity. In any case, we are all chosen by the will of the Bulgarian people to represent them in the Bulgarian Parliament and it seems to me that it would be far better to put aside personal attacks and insults, so that it is not difficult for you, and to speak on the substance of the submitted draft decision by BSP and DPS colleagues. First, as a political act, it once again shows the synchronization between the two parties involved.. There is nothing wrong with that. For ten years now you are in sync preparing your draft laws, and draft decisions, and declarations, and general opposition actions, including not registering for a quorum every morning in the National Assembly, and this is the right of any opposition force. The Project of Solutions. At the first point you recorded that the President of the National Assembly prevented normal legislative activity and effective parliamentary control. I am infinitely surprised that the first and second, signed under this draft decision, are Mrs. Ninova and Mr. Karadayi................................. just under point 1 of the Project Decision. Why? The last date on which Mrs. Ninova listened to Prime Minister Borisov after asking him in the Bulgarian Parliament was a year ago. From now on Mrs. Ninova has not signed a question to Prime Minister Borisov because according to art. 99 of our Rules of Procedure, first of all, that it is registered compulsory in the Chamber of Justice of the National Assembly and, secondly, it must be answered within 14 days. Many 14 days have expired since 22 November 2019 and I cannot understand why Mrs. Ninova maintains point one of the draft decision. Mr. Karadayi, and a large part of the colleagues from the DPS until now at this moment at the beginning of the formation of this National Assembly and this Council of Ministers, have not asked the Prime Minister, that is to say, the very first point of the draft decision does not correspond to the formal arguments of the colleagues. Furthermore, claiming that normal legislative activity is being hindered and showing examples that the Old People's Law is not under consideration is truly surprising. The law on elderly people was introduced by the BSP on 26 July 2017, rejected in the first vote in 2018 and 2019. Every MP who met the Rules at least once knows that a rejected first vote draft can be tabled again at the earliest six months, if its content is substantially changed, all the more so that the Chairman of the Labour and Social Policy Committee is a colleague of the Parliamentary Group of Rights and Freedoms. [[Reply by National Representative Hasan Ademov.]] Yes, and he's been rejected, Mr. Ademov, in the courtroom. I therefore clarified the order for a new bill of similar content to be submitted. [[Reply by National Representative Hasan Ademov: Two times it has been imported, you are not familiar.]] According to point two of the draft decision concerning the Election Code and the Vice-President of the CEC, Mr Hamid said that other bodies will be referred to, so in such a pending dispute and process, I believe that I should not interfere with a specific opinion and opinion. According to point three of the Draft Decision, a breach of the principle of publicity and transparency. The example is the access of journalists and media to the building of the National Assembly. I do not wish to go back to the years, because there are examples in this direction - Mr. Mikov, Mr. Pirinski and the limit that was imposed during their reign as Presidents of the National Assembly. I would like to say that as far as we have information, perhaps Mrs Karayancheva will later complement when discussing the way of work in the new building of the National Assembly, all parliamentary groups have stated a position and were aware that because of the measures related to the pandemic of COVID and the location of the hall, journalists will have other access and another place of work. As far as I know, there are also transcripts of these discussions at the Presidential Council. So on point three of the draft decision, I think that you cannot categorically claim that there is a breach of the principle of publicity and transparency. And the final point four is the public behaviour that undermines the prestige of the National Assembly. Madam President of the National Assembly is first among equals. We are all chosen in the same way by direct democratic choice of the Bulgarian people. Madam President of the National Assembly is elected by the groups supporting the government, which are the majority, precisely and again under the vote of the Bulgarian citizens. And since it is very important not to have a double archin and a double standard, what amazes me most about the draft decision and its fourth point is: how irreconcilable you behaved when from this tribune we were called killers, from this tribune it was said that the national court was necessary and inevitable justice. Then the DPS did not vote in the resignation of Mr. Zablyanov, and the BSP voted against it, when the Bulgarian people said on television that they were............................. the Bulgarian people were.............................................................................................................................................................................................................. Ladies and gentlemen! The power of the words you use also leads to the result they produce. I think you know what the end result of the words you use will be. Be careful in what, how and where you pronounce. It's about everyone! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. - What's the line? Mr. Ivanov. [[Replicate from the National Representative Ivan Chenchev.]] Mr. Chenchev, I'll give you the floor after that for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u77	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Atanasova, I am surprised by this unsuccessful attempt on your part to refute the motives that are set out here in this Chamber, which we are discussing today. One thing you're right about is that these motives aren't complete. Believe me, today you will hear a bunch of arguments that will complete them and still will not be enough, because the depraved prestige of this institution cannot be washed away with anything. Today, even if you rub it off this platform, you cannot delete it, because we are not talking about personal qualities here, we are talking about a targeted policy that has been undermining the foundations of statehood and parliamentaryism for the last four years. That's the truth. Because Ms. Karayancheva did not learn from what happened to her predecessor, but continued the same practice to date. Unfortunately, this is the policy of a ruling majority, which is translated into the actions of the President of the National Assembly, Mrs. Atanasova. The best way to get out of this situation today is for Mrs. Karayancheva to understand what is happening and to resign herself and to be an attempt to sanitize this blow that is being struck on parliamentaryism. Because all that is written in these motives is a small part of the entire ruin of the prestige of this institution, because this high tribune deserves far greater respect. Believe me, these 7%, which are the ratings of this parliament, cannot be disguised as a fig leaf with one carpet or anything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u78	Thank you. Mr. Chenchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u79	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My line will be brief. You said, Mrs. Atanasova, that for one year we have not had a registered question regarding the Prime Minister. Tell me: where did you register 22 BSP bills that do not see the light and are on logs? Where did you register them?! Tell me with regard to journalists what we all know and it is a fact why, if you claim that it is false and that everything is correct, Europe tells you that there is a danger for freedom of speech in Bulgaria because of the attitude towards journalists in parliament. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB. Communicating: "Eee! "]] Is that right? That's right, they tell you! So be correct. There have been many discrepancies in your speech, and these have not been any arguments, excuse me very much. The arguments are gay and they are in our parliamentary group, which quite objectively says because it has the right to ask for the resignation and release of Ms. Karayancheva. Nothing more, but nothing less, but be correct!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u80	Thank you. A hole, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chenchev, the bills are registered in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In addition to registration, the bills shall be dealt with in plenary at the request of the parliamentary group that proposed them. There is such a order in art. Art. 50, art. 53 and further... you can meet in detail, Mr. Chenchev. Mr. Ivanov, your comment on Mrs. Karayancheva's predecessor is not relevant to the current situation. And then, and now, no BSP has a leading influence on the opinion of the House and determining the vote. And then, despite Ms. Ninova and your parliamentary group's insistence on Mr. Glauchev's resignation, it was not caused by your vote, but by his desire to resign, as resigning is a personal act. Your efforts will again be unsuccessful today. We will vote and Mrs Karayancheva will continue to be President of the Bulgarian Parliament! [[Applause from GERB.]] Mr. Ivanov, you're not worth answering.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Personal explanation Mr. Jablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u83	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mrs. Atanasova, I would like to make an explanation. Of course, I'll start with Bismarck's wing thought that the most lie is before war, after hunting and before elections. Elections are coming up. From this tribune, personally, I have never uttered the words: "Inevitable and necessary military justice, that is the full phrase. It's a party document. I am dismissed by a decision of the National Assembly from the position of Vice-President with three arguments, i.e. three reasons in your Draft Decision. This one doesn't count. The main reason for my release is the second of those listed in the draft decision, and it is because I called the treaty between Bulgaria and then the Republic of Macedonia, then Northern Macedonia, which does not guarantee the Bulgarian national interests. And so far, I stand by my words. You set me free, so one of the reasons is this. Open your decision and read it. The other two reasons are for my alleged participation in the authorship of a party document which is irrelevant to the work of the National Assembly. In a word, the Constitutional Court of Constitutional Case No 4, registered at the request of the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Socialist Party, resulted in seven to five judges voting. Five judges have signed it with a special opinion and I advise you to open up the motives of the judges who have signed with a special opinion. I don't want to insult the constitutional majority in this case.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u84	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u85	Mr. Vice-President...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u86	Time's up.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u87	...from collegiate solidarity, I'm asking you for 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u88	Okay, I'll give you 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u89	Thank you. Since the election of the President of the National Assembly is under discussion, I will allow myself to say a few sentences regarding the authority of the institution. Then in my speech on my release, I advised you to dismiss the Presidents of the National Assembly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u90	Finish it now, Mr. Jablyanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u91	I'm graduating. And the dots that are recorded there.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u92	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u93	You acted on the principle of majority and political appropriateness... [[National Representative Valeri Zablyanov speaks in off microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u94	Thank you. Finish it! Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u95	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Atanasova, when you speak from this tribune regarding the Old People's Law, you must deal with the factual situation of this bill. First of all, it's not about Law, it's about Law. You make that difference well. I'll tell you what the facts are. On 26 July 2017, the Old People's Bill under heading 754-01-47 was submitted, was reviewed in the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee, was also examined in several other committees, discussed, examined and rejected in the plenary. On 18 September 2019 a bill for elderly people was re-submitted. Once he from the National Assembly's leadership is assigned to the relevant committees, including the leading Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, this means that he meets the requirements of the National Assembly's Rules of Procedure and Procedure. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy delivered an opinion on 13 November 2019. Within the time limit laid down in the Rules of Procedure. From then on, this bill is not moved in plenary, so when you talk about the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, consider...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u96	For you personally, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u97	...with the facts as they are, not improvise and make up facts that don't exist.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u98	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u99	You may have an opinion of your own, but you have no right to your own facts! [[Single applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u100	Mr. Mareshki, you have the floor. You will all be able to speak, Mr. Chenchev. There is a line in which I follow the speeches.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u101	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Simov, I'm going to start there first because I didn't have the right to use the case most strongly to say that I had no intention of becoming a homosexual so I could start liking my BSP colleagues. Not only that... [[Laughter from GERB, lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I was sure there would be, but what, I don't have the right to choose my sexuality? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Not only that, I think... By the way, I was prepared for the vulgar behavior that you will begin to express, the fruit of abstinence, of rudeness or simply of 80% retardity. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I don't know on the basis of what you're doing right now, but I wasn't interrupting you!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u102	Intellectual ignorance!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u103	But intellectually, you're very ignorant and I'm going to ask you not to interrupt me! [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And in a moment there will be a request for you, too, don't worry. Not only that, I use the case to declare, because we, in the party, willia, will not accept that while I am the chairman of the party, I will not allow career growth only on this principle.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u104	What does this have to do with the Solution Project?!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u105	I'm waiting for him. I'm waiting for Mr. Mareshki just as I'm waiting for you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u106	If you want me to repeat to you about the vulgar behavior, the fruit of abstinence, rudeness...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u107	Go on, go on, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u108	...or something else, keep it up. If not, I'll wait and speak when you calm down.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u109	Go on, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u110	I know that the next prop will be: but from where, Mareshki, he is accused that even a convicted second instance, he will teach us here morale and so on. That's the point. We from the Bulgarian Rhodolists will not become lawyers of Ms Karayancheva, and she, like each of us, each Bulgarian has his sins. But let's see who the moral judges are, let's see who are the ones who put the subject to what this or that MP was doing? And since, again, the claim to me is that I have no right to be such a judge, I will quote your party comrades. I'm going to quote the freshest example first and then I'm going to go back a little bit further in history. Quite from those days, Mrs. Dureva: During the so-called direct choice, slogans were constantly walking: "Let's scrape out the germination, "Let's get rid of the gozanovishtina, "Van Kiro Dobrev", "Dulu Rumen Ovcharov" and a person, looking at what the National Council looks like, well all these people are on the National Council. Nothing happened to them, they're still there. No one's ever gone.................. or [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u111	I'm waiting. I'm waiting for him, calm down!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u112	No one's head has been cut off. Ninova was going to cut Gutsanov's head off in the middle of the square in Varna, but he is now, as you can see, in the Executive Bureau. But look, almost a year BSP has been doing nothing but the so-called direct choice. The party was hypnotized, brought to full...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u113	I'm gonna have to ask you again, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u114	Yeah, it's about the pumping and who wants the resignation! The thinker critically, anyone who is in a different position from the leader, from the leadership and so on, if everyone is called the enemy, traitor, traitor, collaborator with GERB for example, this is one of the mantras that all critics are hardly bought by GERB, which, of course, is an ugly, frankly, lie. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We're gonna go back in time, because obviously that's not enough for you...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u115	On the subject, right?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u116	On the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u117	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u118	What is the morality of those who want the resignation of Tsveta Karayancheva? Your very high-ranking companion and indeed, in my opinion, a respected person, Mr. Mladen Chervenyakov, as a spokesperson of the BSP at the time, on June 11th, the High Council of BSP solemnly handed over to journalists its book "Corruption" a major element in the management of the SDS "June 1997" 2001. It is dedicated to blue privatization during the management of the ODS and then to this presentation Mr. Mladen Chervenyakov explains that at least half of the blue privatisation deals are questionable. The Socialist Party claims that RMD privatisation is controlling businesses through majority participation of party parachutists and cousins. By the way, here you have our full support, that's why we're in Parliament, we're fighting these things. However, the first, brightest example of this shrubadjanashtina, of paratroopers and cousins in questionable privatisation deals, is the deal under No. 7 in the sheet "Technoimpex" EAD related to your leader. I ask: yes, Mrs. Karayancheva must have made some mistake, we heard, by the way, one of the few specifics about some person who had to be replaced in the CEC has not taken appropriate measures. Well, if these are her transgressions for the four-year term, yeah, let's really reprimand her, but here we're playing the same scene. A few months ago, your bills, our bills, weren't they delayed? That is, the circus that we are currently playing out, only, as mentioned by the previous one, is because of the upcoming elections, that at the moment we must constantly bring out problems from the present, but we, all those people and the protest, they are not just talking about the present, they are talking about both the past and the three dollars pensions, and about the problems and corruption during your governments. That's why it's my speech and pleading for a little more humility, a little bit more appreciation for your mistakes, to see who's blacker. Because if we have to take down Tsveta Karayancheva to put Cornelia Ninova in her place, we are definitely against it. Give me an alternative! If GERB must fall in order for BSP to come, should we put the Bulgarian people to that? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Dear colleagues, really think about it, think about where you're taking the country, not to mention that two big generals and men are now gone, here women are left talking to each other, but where are you going with the state? What are you after? To rob, to lubricate? Give me alternatives! Let us unite on specific bills, not on this charade, that we have not spent so much energy for example in the topic of free medicines for pensioners! Has anyone said anything about free meds for seniors or kids until fourth grade, eighth grade, and let's say 12th grade? Does anyone talk about these things? How much energy do you have to waste in such chaos? Shame on you! Is that why you were sent here to change this one or that one?! Darryl 6 carpets, how much did you donate? What did the others do? And in the end, and most importantly, what are the laws and what we help people with? Personally, I'd be ashamed of those two hours when we're wasting valuable time just to have party PR events. I call you to common sense, to unite to solve the main problems facing the country, the crisis is deepening widely with COVID, and we are talking here: stand up to sit down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u119	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. - What's the line? Mrs. Yotova, if it's a line, please come in. [[Reply of the People's Representative Nona Yotova.]] No. We continue with the speeches.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u120	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u121	Mr. Tsonev, in the manner of conduct. [[Reply of National Representative Anton Kutev.]] Mr. Kutev, I'll give you the floor after Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u122	Dear Mr. Chairman, my procedure is in the manner of conduct and refers to the entire debate today in the Chamber which you are leading. It also applies, of course, to the President whose resignation we want today when he leads. Mr. Chairman, you should take the role of stopping words that are not for this tribune a little more seriously. Because this tribune and this hall is the temple of democracy. On a parliamentary democracy, the temple is the parliament and the words you leave to pronounce freely, free to flow from here as part of the speech of colleague Mareshki, I unwittingly think of an expression from the Old Testament, more precisely from the book of St. George. The prophet Daniel: The abomination of desolation. The abomination of desolation refers to the Jewish temple in Jerusalem. However, these words refer to the temple of Bulgarian democracy. That's the analogy I'm gonna make. This temple of Bulgarian democracy is increasingly becoming the abomination of desolation. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u123	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. I listened carefully to Mr. Mareshki and everyone before him. And not just this time! [[Replication of the National Representative Ivan Chenchev.]] I have the right to answer, Mr. Chenchev! [[Reply.]] You have every reason, but every MP decides for himself what words to use, what to talk about and how to speak. [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The People's Representative is therefore here to express his thoughts and to give some direction in what he has been sent for. Much heavier words have been said from the stands than from Mr. Mareshki. Yes, although with too long an introduction, he managed to achieve what he wanted to say. I wouldn't try to interrupt anyone unless the rules are really rude, and I have, and I will. So I do not accept to be put in the line of duty almost to be the one to limit the people's representatives in expressing their will from the parliamentary tribune. Let what they say be in line with their understanding. [[Heckling]] No, Mr. Chenchev, and Mr. Kutev was presented to me a line of speech, Mr. Chenchev, from your parliamentary group. If you have a note in the order of speech, please contact the group's management. [[Relations from the National Representative Ivan Chenchev.]] I understand, but you have seen for yourself that order has been presented here, with me, by a representative of your group's leadership.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u124	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Let me start with the reason or rather with the occasion on which the resignation of the President of the National Assembly was requested a week or ten days ago. The occasion at the time was to prevent some citizens from entering the National Assembly building. This was a specific declaration on a specific occasion. By the way, why do we still want the resignation? Well, because the same citizens were not allowed into the National Assembly building today. The same mothers of disabled children! I'll allow myself to give you one of their jerseys to remind you that this is the reason we want your resignation, or at least the specific occasion. [[Shows a black T-shirt with the inscription: "The system is killing us! "]] Once again, they are not here - whether it is a horse or the Presidency of the National Assembly - it is a question to understand yet. Sooner or later, the chairman will be replaced. I hope that in the next chair, citizens will have access to the National Assembly regardless of the epidemic situation. Because the National Assembly is not for the MPs, it is for the people, for the citizens who are not here again. They tried to get in, they couldn't. That's why I wear them at their request. [[tires screeching]] Otherwise, let's go back to the arguments why I think Ms. Karayancheva should resign and why this resignation should be voted on. It was mentioned the systematic failure of bills. But I want to turn this thing into pure arguments. I do not care at all, honestly, what Boyko Borisov said about Karayancheva and whether he said it. I don't care if it's their personal relationship, and what they put up with is their problem. But when it comes to the Bill, for example, for the people with housing savings deposits, that is to say, the interest-bearing ones, roughly speaking, which he stood for for years until all the deadlines passed so that it could be permanently closed, which led to the fact that some 180 million. lv. the state didn't pay the citizens. And that is, I am definitely saying, at the fault of the President of the National Assembly, because the bill never entered into for discussion. Another came in, not the one we brought in, who wasn't the same, and the other didn't go to second reading. Until all deadlines passed, and until the citizens lost 180 million. lv. at the expense of the state. Their state stole them, that's what happened! With the clear cooperation of the majority in this hall and of Tsveta Karayancheva. She knew what she was doing. I've done at least 10 procedures on this subject and she knew very well what she was doing. And you knew what you were doing. You did it on purpose. This is stolen money from the citizens! Another bill that stands for already, I think a year is the Law on Radio and Television. It offers another way of financing public media, another form of control over public media is offered. It is something that I think is absolutely necessary. When citizens are out there right now going and yelling at Koshlukov against the General Director of Television, perhaps this bill would have brought more independence to the National Television, not perhaps........................... However, you know very well why you do not want to see it in the Chamber, because you know that you and the people are of a different opinion and you were ashamed to bring it into the Chamber? went through the Committee on Culture, where Mr Rashidov and I had a terrible fight, because during the same bill I was concerned with my mother and explained how many songs she was singing.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u125	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u126	This bill didn't come in because you were ashamed to bring it in and because you knew very well that the people outside wouldn't accept your arguments. You know that now. And this is again the fault of Tsveta Karayancheva. The battle, so to speak, is currently not that BSP or DPS wants the resignation of Tsveta Karayancheva, this is another process. And it's not the people against Tsveta Karayancheva, it's the other way around. [[Shouts from GERB: "Eee! "]] This is the process right now. It's about trying with all your might and means to stop what you swore by coming here to serve the people. On the contrary! The third bill that we put in months ago, he, for example, concerns judicial control over the acts of the Prosecutor General, has not seen the light of day, has not entered! The people outside want control of the D.A.'s acts. Now we will be listening to the work of the Attorney General, only the bill with which this must be regulated does not enter! The bills are 22. I can talk about others, but I think I'll stop there. What we are seeing right now is the fall of political elites to political mud. You made one of the dirtiest political houses in our history. That's why we're at 7%! I mean, people, we don't just want Tsveta Karayancheva's resignation, you're all meaningless and you have to leave now! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u127	Mr. Kutev, that was a serious insult to your colleagues. I don't know any senseless MPs. Well, I do! - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Rashidov, you're supposed to have a personal explanation. Here's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u128	Mr. Chairman, because they mentioned my name. First of all, I have to tell you that my mother actually has 300 songs on the radio, and there is no singer in history that has had that much, and her nickname was still today: the Nightingale of the Rhodopes. I don't know your nickname. What a bülbül you are, I don't know you! [[Laughter from GERB's parliamentary group.]] Secondly, isn't it bothering you that only Emil Koslukov is called and not the Director General of the Radio? That doesn't bother you! Well, that's what hunting is all about. My resignation is the easiest, I handed it in as minister for the third term, and from here it's even easier. Don't worry! If this is your excitement, ask me to decide if I will give it to you. Don't bring my mother into this. You don't have any dignity and merit to involve a great woman that people still remember and love. And he does much better work today when he's not among the living, in the town of Kardzhali and in the area. So leave Koshlukov alone. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You like that. And secondly, no one has given you the right to privatize the word of the people. As you can see, I rarely use this because the word "people" is a very responsible thing to say. Morning, noon and night, calling under five people and you people?! It's not like that! Eight million is the people seven-and-a-half, and they're at work, not in the square. Thank you. [[(Applause and cheering from GERB: Bravo! Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u129	Thank you, Mr. Rashidov. Mr. Nenkov, a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u130	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I do not want to dwell on the personal qualities of Mrs. Tsveta Karayancheva. I'll just say that whoever knows her and who has touched her knows that she is an extremely honest, hardworking, dedicated, collegiate, compromise and dialogue person. [[Reply.]] The Komsomol meetings ended last week or last week.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u131	There's more!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u132	But, colleagues, I will only note what Mrs. Ninova said at the beginning of her speech in the arguments for resignation about what and how Ms. Karayancheva had said at a party event. I must tell you that surely yes, perhaps there can be reproaches in the way of speech, but Mrs Karayancheva is an emotional person and unlike many of you she has not succumbed to the spotlight, that she is president of the National Assembly, she is what she was years ago, she will be, and after a time when she will no longer be president or MP and will not engage in politics. I have to tell you that this is much more respectable than reciting specific colleagues who forget themselves about it when they see a camera when they are a little bit made up and when they show one face to the world, and at the same time they are different. And, colleagues, that is exactly what I think is your goal. You very accurately do what Professor Hristov said about 80% of the Bulgarian people, that's how you behave. What do you do in years, what I've noticed? You're changing, you're reforming, you even had a campaign where you recharged, if you don't remember! And it's all for one purpose only to fool people. But people aren't retarded. People therefore do not trust you, because you have not once said, "I'm sorry, we were wrong!" If there is such a statement by one of your colleagues, I will go public and apologize to him! You're very concerned about Parliament's rating that you can't do your job as an opposition. But, colleagues, it is not Tsveta Karayancheva, it is not Boyko Borisov, it is not the Election Code, it is not the machines, without machines, ballots! You're always looking for only one reason to justify yourself. And nothing more! Instead of being constructive opposition, because there is a need in a democratic state, it is very important to have opposition and ruling. Instead of being a constructive opposition to put forward proposals, you want to rise up and win elections by tarnishing, denigrating, crushing the other side. But people don't fool themselves, they're not stupid, so they don't give you the trust you want. And don't make excuses for anyone else! Maybe it's okay to think about yourself sometime, whether you're wrong or not. There are no wrong people, it's been mentioned several times already. And if you care so much about parliament, about his work, about the bills that are important, excuse me, but you and the DPS sit in the rooms every morning, in the rooms, in the quarters, and pray that there is no quorum so that you can have 5 minutes of fame. [[What have you been doing for 13 years? Weren't you in the shackles?]] To go out on a grandstand and say: "Here, you see, there is no parliament meeting, there is no solution to the important things in the state. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] That's your constructive behavior?! But it is not now, it was at the beginning of the term. Let's not forget, you didn't even go into the gym for three months. [[Dictionaries from DPS: "You what were you doing? "]] Colleagues, there must be a lot more to talk about. The bad news is you don't want to do anything good for Parliament today. You want to humiliate a decent woman! I have to tell you that I'm sorry that she's being stoically forced to endure and listen to all these nonsense that have been told at her address because she's not that kind of person. I think you may have a much higher score than what you're saying here, coming out of this tribune. Colleagues, in conclusion, I will say the following thing. You know, it's not too late to get out of this disgraceful debate we're having today? I think that colleagues from BSP and DPS, although we are already at the end of this debate, can withdraw the request for resignation, your desire for the requested resignation. I think this will set a much stronger example for society, and as much as we wish and wish we didn't want to, as much as we like each other or not, the state is facing very serious problems. I don't know if you feel it, but I personally feel it, and my colleagues feel it. Whether we like each other or not, more than ever, we must show some fellowship, some correctness, some normal form of parliamentaryism and democracy, because the state is full of problems that are about to be solved. The government is currently trying to do everything at once, on the one hand, to preserve people's health, on the other hand, the economy, jobs to some extent to be preserved, as far as possible, and no one knows what is ahead of us for the coming months, hopefully not years. I think that if you give such an example today and withdraw this resignation, we give our hand, yet we like each other or not, but we still have some sensitivity, some collegiality and some search for compromise, I think that people will respect the Bulgarian Parliament much more than all those insults that have been said, but not just now and in the back of time, about the goons, about the killers, about the oligarchic circles, about all those insults that you have allowed yourself to make from this tribune, but you do not like what Mrs Karayancheva said. I respect this man and will vote absolutely in favour of her because I know that she has done her best to the position she is, even very often you overdo it with her kindness. Maybe it's a negative I don't know, but I think it's a worthy man and will be written in gold letters in the history of all the Presidents of the National Assembly. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u133	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. - What's the line? The line, Mr. Burgeev, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u134	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Nenkov, your speech was long and irritable and one major moment made a strong impression on us to be constructive. And to show you that I am very well-meaning and want to be constructive, I will only ask you one question, I will return you to the arguments of my colleague Anton Kutev to answer because in the long and irrigation speech you did not say anything about the subject of his speech. How do you feel about the missing 180 million Bulgarian citizens who are interested in the Law on interest rates, which is not allowed to the hall, and the Law on Radio and Television? Please answer, are these nonsense? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u135	Thank you, Mr. Burgeev. Mr. Nenkov, this was not about your speech, but if you'd like to come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u136	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleague, I don't know if we are currently debating a specific bill, here we are debating a specific request for resignation. Well, we've had a lot of arguments over different billings. I'm not a specialist, and I don't know exactly this bill whether or not it is, I can't say. I'm gonna use my douche bag to say something I just missed. After all, colleagues who want Mrs. Karayancheva's resignation, you have your representatives in the leadership of this Parliament, right, and Mrs. Nighyar Jafer and Mr. Vigenin. I'm sorry, but when you want your resignation, it's still nice to have a little look at it with us. Even my colleague Vigenin, without what I personally have with him, he himself said on this stand: "I am ashamed to be part of this leadership of the National Assembly. Well, if you're so embarrassed, you know where the paperwork is. When you say "A," say "B." Because it is very pleasing: to be vice-president of the National Assembly, and to be ashamed to go up and not want to participate in the chairmanship councils and blame in every way the work of parliament. I'm sorry, but this is absolutely hypocrisy! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u137	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. It's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u138	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I take occasion from being mentioned now, but things are connected. I will say a few words about why I am ashamed and why what we are doing today is actually an element of the cleansing of shame. Ms. Karayancheva's resignation to our request today is an attempt to clear the shame of this National Assembly. There is one Vice-President in this National Assembly [[(a line from Vice-President Veselin Mareshki:]] who will excuse me for what I am about to say, you will excuse me for what I am about to say now, as it will remain in the annals of this National Assembly a statement that is not customary for me, but there is one Vice-President of the National Assembly who is particularly interested in single-sex love, and constantly commenting on these issues here at the National Assembly. We can't help him, neither I personally nor our parliamentary group. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria (BGSP for Bulgaria))]] But I'm sure there are psychologists who can explain the reasons for this particular interest. The same Vice-President of the National Assembly is sentenced to four years in prison at second instance, effective...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u139	No. Here you are, Mr. Vigenin, going beyond the limits of your personal explanation. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u140	No, I'm not. I'm not going out! And the shame of this National Assembly is that this man is standing here...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u141	You guys are wrong! Mr. Vigenin responds to Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u142	...and the host of the National Assembly is not interrupting it, but interrupting me, who I want to make this explanation. I am convinced that these four years in prison will help him find himself. [[(Laughter, applause from the BSP for Bulgaria (Bulgaria)) (Laughter, applause from Bravo!) Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, ……]] But I want to say that we have often kept our mouths shut about this, because there is a fairy tale that says: "Kill the fool with your voice, but the oaf does not die, often silence is considered a weakness. So I took the liberty of saying these things out of the stands because you're really overreacting. Ms. Karayancheva, if you come out here and say that you are ready personally, as I requested in a declaration, to request the resignation of this Vice-President...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u143	Finish the speech, Mr. Vigenin. You're out of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u144	...I'll vote in person... [[The President turns off the microphones. The orator keeps talking on off microphones. Claps from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u145	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. [[Applause from the BSP of Bulgaria.]] We continue with the speeches. Mr. Chenchev, come in. [[(Replys from BSP for Bulgaria]] The long wait, though, that you didn't get burned because... [[Laughter at GERB.]] You'll talk quietly, won't you?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u146	You can't stand it, Mr. Chairman, not to make some finding, very original! Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! To join my colleagues and say in the examples, first of all, that the Youth Act has not reached this hall five times, and I think that the Bulgarian youth needs it. This is only as an example in terms of all the bills that we have entered and do not see the light of day. Dear Ms. Karayancheva, as a lady you can't have the respect of every Bulgarian man, but you are the chair of parliament and I do not know how you allow yourself to distinguish the two things because you divide people. Do they look at you as a person or as Parliament Speaker? When you speak, no matter where, what are you talking about, and why do you make such a difference? You're the chair of parliament at any time. I'm not gonna stress this, but I can't help but say that every single one of your fuck-ups is building up to your image, and quite logically you have to bear your responsibility. Yes, you are a lady, but as President of Parliament you should hear these things, they are piling up for years and now I will give you chronology. Leave the fact that you have moved Beijing to Vietnam, leave the fact that in Targovishte you have addressed the citizens with Dear Degraders!..................................... the water crisis due to COVID-19. People began to wash their hands more and more. [[Laughter from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] I'm quoting. [[Reply from the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva.]] Mrs. Karayancheva, make a line for me in a moment. For yourself you say: I was the blade of GERB before 2017 after all, and now what are you of GERB and Boyko Borisov and what are you for the Bulgarian Parliament?! I guess you're not GERB's blade anymore. You are the President of Parliament, and as such you should speak to both the people and the MPs, and any statement you make must be measured. Anyone, even those at home, because they can get out somewhere. Interview for the Bulgarian National Radio of 23 April 2018: [[Reply from the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva.]] No, your personality was screened at the protests with video footage. With regard to the journalists that have already been mentioned, I will quote you there as well. Since they're in the basement, since you can't help but show that you're chairing the media, could you, Mrs. Karajancheva, put them somewhere else? You could have. Is this your decision? Why don't you do it? Why are they in the basement? But I quote you about the journalists: The building is large, the movement of the individual streams is strictly regulated, narrow contact can exist. You invite the president very zealously from your speeches in Parliament. And he came, Mrs. Karayancheva, he came! But the Prime Minister, you're hiding. You hid him, and you keep hiding him. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] You didn't realize that you didn't represent the institution just while you were in it or working hours. In the rest of the time you have government cars, government guards, with which you string your pearls along the people, as you yourself say, and which other president was an institution in one part of the day and a party speaker in the other? This, Ms. Karayancheva, is not a crisis PR, it is a crisis of the PR itself, a crisis of parliament, a crisis of its chairman, a crisis of statehood. Finally, there is some paradox here: we are talking about the President of the National Assembly, but it has a whole leadership of this National Assembly. Today I want your release, and actually see which vice-presidents you run with. One doesn't let mothers into parliament, the other insults them, and the other is just convicted. That's why you're resigning and clear the position. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u147	- What's the line? Mr. Mareshki will have a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u148	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Chenchev, aside from the last discharges that must be made when someone speaks, otherwise you had prepared quite well. Unfortunately, however, before you spoke your comrade Vigenin and he sent to hell all that you had done because he admitted what the truth was. He said: "If you take Mareshki's resignation, we leave Karayancheva. "There are no principles and all that you and the others have spoken has gone to hell. He admitted in fact what is the goal of pressure on Karayancheva to remove Mareshki. [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria]] God forbid if I seek my masculinity, to consult Vigenin, but if I choose to become a woman, I will call him! Thank you. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u149	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. Second line? A hole? I won't. Here you go, Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u150	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, colleagues from the BSP and from the DPS! Everyone in this room, and beyond, is aware that today is not about the President of Parliament. We are talking about something very different about all sorts of tactics and attempts to gain power together, and it is not about any laws of yours that are supposedly not allowed to be dealt with by the President. It's about a game whose goal is only: to get power, and not in elections, not by presenting ideas, programs, but by deboning. In the case of Tsveta Karayancheva, this is precisely what is involved in the vocation of words, positions, behavior. In all this general shouting against Mrs. Karayancheva actually disappears very important facts, namely that she is a person who performs from her first day in the National Assembly and as a representative of the National Assembly, and as President of the Parliament her duties selfless, responsible, honest and that she often abandons herself and her family for the common objectives and the tasks done, face to the people and the dignity of the institution. How many of you, colleagues on the left, can you acknowledge this for yourself, or are you perhaps willing to pay the price of power with the dignity of the National Assembly institution? [[Applause from GERB.]] Unfortunately, the defamation has not disappeared at all from our political life, perhaps soon it will not disappear, and it is indeed very sad. I say this with pain as chairman of the Committee on Education and Science, because very often in this House we talk about crises in the school, we talk about the value system of children, we try to change children, but at the same time we do not realize, throwing them untruths and spectacles that our paths will never intertwine with theirs and thus further deepen the crisis of values. You are making desperate attempts to fill the National Assembly's working agenda with political smoke. Who benefits from what important and good we have done with this debate today? Political screaming and qualifications against colleagues do not make anyone's job meaningful, nor do you make a meaningful opposition. I know that hate language is perceived very quickly and I know that you will probably find someone outside this building who will say that Mrs. Karayancheva is doing her job badly. But I also know that every one of us and you in this room knows that it works as it should with everyone and everyone. This is enough for me because today fewer and fewer people work and want to work, and more and more people have only desires and demands. Yes, I cannot agree that we live in a country, in Bulgaria, of debauching and not in Bulgaria of honour, and if you, colleagues of the opposition in the Bulgarian Parliament, do not understand it, it is a shame for you and the institution. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u151	Thank you, Mrs. Damyanova. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Mikhailov, are you giving up? Okay. Mrs. Yotova? Okay. Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I would like to return to the substance of the debate where it belongs. In the beginning, colleague Atanasov expressed an interesting thesis that at the end of all parliaments with the same arguments the resignations of the presidents of parliament are required. It's absolutely true! Why is that? Because at the end of all parliaments, the majority becomes slightly arrogant, feeling the loss of power, starting with violation of procedures, with certain behaviors in the hall, certain bills are stopped, others are released further, no chronology is followed, but not to mention all this. It is therefore necessary to ask for resignations at the end of the parliamentary mandates. Mrs. Karayancheva, in this sense you make no exception, alas! It is a well-known truth that democracy is carried out through procedures. If the Bulgarian Parliament violates the procedures, this distorts the legislation. If the legislation is distorted, the existence of the entire democracy is questioned. There is no time to mention in particular the violation of procedures and sometimes it happens on the edge of the Rules, and other times it happens with gross violation of the Rules. In this respect, there is no exception to any of the previous parliaments.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u153	Mr. Tsonev, your time is up. I'm gonna have to ask you to graduate.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u154	Sometimes I wish, Mrs. Karayancheva, to address you and to tell you that this post here does not prohibit, but it suggests that there is no party in the President of Parliament and that there is no regionality.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u155	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u156	I'm telling you again, it doesn't forbid it, but it does! [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u157	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Are there any lines? I won't. Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u158	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Tsonev, you have hinted at violations of procedures, but it is still nice to list which procedures have been violated by the majority, in particular by the President. Perhaps you should remind the President of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, according to which the people's representative is representative of the whole of Bulgaria. Thank you. [[(Comments from GERB: Who will remind the President?]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u159	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u160	Thank you, Mr. Popov, for the line. Yes, at the end of my speech, I wanted to say this, the Presidents of Parliament just at the end of the term forget that they are first among equals, and it is good to know it, as everyone in this tribune reminds it. When we talk about the regionalism that a speaker of parliament should abstain from because it represents the most serious institution in the parliamentary republic, I would like to say a few words about Kardzhali, because the whole debate revolves around Kardzhali. I will not comment on the role of Ms Karayancheva in Kardzhali, what she does there and whether this is typical of the President of the National Assembly. But I will tell these colleagues who have said false things about Kardzhali that the only true thing I heard is from Mr Rashidov, who said that Kardzhali is a great city and that in Kardzhali everything is okay a very beautiful city, very well arranged. That's true. I will tell you that since the beginning of democracy in Kardzhali, with the exception of one mandate, he has managed a mayor from DPS, and that the majority of the municipal council are of DPS and in Kardzhali, and in all municipalities of Kardzhali region. The last false thing you said from this tribune was that the bastion of the DPS was broken, and for that the chairwoman of parliament had merit. Dear colleagues, let me remind you: the DPS had five out of five mandates when the mandates were calculated under the system. I'll tell you: those who understand the electoral process to account for the fact that now there will be five out of five if the system is. But the system was replaced by the active involvement of the DPS. The Movement for Rights and Freedoms did not think that it is good for Kardzhali to have five out of five because it is good to have another representation. In all municipal councils we have absolute majorities and this is quite enough to implement our policy. Thanks to changing the system, the DPS does not have five out of five, but there are mandates in the areas that we want to have to expand our influence, so more modestly with the myth of the defeated bastion, because the system will still have five out of five. Only we don't want that, but we think it's better for both the country and Kardzhali and for all of us. The bastion stays on DPS! Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u161	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Mrs. Taskov, just to warn you, you have a minute.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u162	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On behalf of every self-respecting Bulgarian citizen, every Bulgarian citizen who cares about the Bulgarian institutions, I want to tell you that at the moment what is happening in this Chamber for two hours humiliates Bulgaria because you have brought some absolute vulgarity to the Bulgarian Parliament! I am obliged, on behalf of VOLIA, to distinguish from this behavior, to distinguish our entire party, all our sympathizers and every single member of our parliamentary group. Why am I saying all this? Did you know that the schools are burning with a horse right now? Did you know there's really going to be a crisis right now? What problem did you guys solve today? You repeat from BSP and 50 minutes we listened to all the possible quotes of everyone who spoke on the subject! We found out what you didn't like at the beginning of her post Ms. Karayancheva said she was a representative of certain citizens. [[Noise and lines.]] Okay, she said that in 2017. Do you work at this rate from BSP?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u163	Mrs. Taskov, your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u164	Well, it's 2020 today, guys. Did you just think that she had violated the Constitution?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u165	Thank you, Ms. Taskova, your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u166	Honestly, there's no way... You bring some kind of scary virus into this room and make each one of us walk really head down! Everything you are doing because I do not know Karayancheva how much the rating of the National Assembly has collapsed, but this debate today and the tone with which it was held, and the nonsense that has been said by this House, will completely fail us! [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) Claps from the Bulgarian Rhodolists.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u167	Thank you. Are there lines? Mrs. Taskov, you'll get a line. Mr. Mikhailov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u168	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My line will be very brief. Indeed, in many of the speeches we went far from the debate, but I have a very specific line to Mrs. Takova. As a professional, I very much ask that in this Chamber not impose harmful and panicked claims on the nation. Such words that the schools are blazing with a horse in the center of the Bulgarian Parliament are absolutely unfounded. This creates very serious fears in the nation. And please, Mrs. Taskova, take your words, don't say things that don't fit the truth. Also the Secretary-General, we said that in the Chamber, warned that the interruption of the educational process could turn into an educational disaster. So do not create such moods, such suggestions in the Bulgarian nation from the platform of parliament. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u169	Thank you. Mrs. Taskova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u170	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Mihailov, thank you for noticing the really important problems that I have put forward in my speech. Let me just remind you that on February 19th, when I first put the topic of a horse in the Bulgarian Parliament, you once again told me that the debate was extremely professional and did not belong in this Chamber. There was not a month later we all unanimously voted on the state of emergency in Bulgaria. In no case do I want to provoke any fear, any panic, in any way, but I think this is the moment when we need to talk about these things again, because the crisis is clearly coming. And I was merely quoting the words of the Headquarters, as it is Thursday and he is making his speeches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u171	Thank you, Mrs. Taskova. Next statement Mrs. Nino. [[Radio and lines in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u172	Dear Bulgarian citizens, if any of you have had any doubts about whether this National Assembly is exhausted and has to leave, I think that today has already been released from these fluctuations and is absolutely convinced that in this Chamber with this majority the forty-fourth National Assembly is exhausted and Mrs Karayancheva's resignation is no longer enough to change that. After this debate that we have had, it is now necessary to say more and more strongly that it is a rescue for Bulgaria that this Parliament should be dissolved immediately and elections should be held. That is why the foundations of statehood, the principle of rule of law, which requires the legislator to exercise parliamentary control over the executive power, were reduced to a proposal for a meeting in a restaurant where to discuss the issues which you, dear Bulgarian citizens, are referring to. Bottom! Secondly, humiliating the institution of the Bulgarian Parliament with Mr. Borisov's insulting and cynical speech about the President of the institution of Parliament was reduced to arguing which one is the most in Kardzhali, whose region is Kardzhali and who has the greater right to carry the epithet Kardzhali?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u173	Mrs. Ninova, are you having a discussion so far? [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We have an item on the agenda. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria, single applause from GERB.]] Take it easy!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u174	Mr. Simeonov, if you'll allow me to just remind you of something, because that's what this is all about. Just to remind you, honourable Members, that my removal from this tribune a few years ago, because of which Mr. Glauchev left, is currently the subject of a case in Strasbourg, which I will win. Not for yourself, but for your arrogant attitude and your attempts to constantly silence the opposition's voice. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria..............................................................................................]] So think of Glauchev and decide if you will stop my microphones and take me off the stands again, Mr. Simeonov. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u175	Get to the point where you're talking about it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u176	Don't tell me what to say! I am a MP who is entitled to free will to express a position as a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u177	There are rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u178	One hour we listen to insults, lies and slanders, and now you're telling me that I have no right to answer on behalf of the Bulgarian Socialists? [[GERB lines]] Now those three minutes you've taken from me, you're going to extend them over time. [[Radio and lines.]] Get to the point. Dear Bulgarian citizens, I continue with the fact that the woes of a whole guild of artists of culture, of spirituality, artists of the community centers today in the debate instead of discussing how to help them in the COVID-19 and that they do not have any commitments, was reduced to the bottom for a dispute over three third-use carpets and how this helped cultural activists. Well, doesn't it convince you that this majority, with this level of political conversation, has long been in the past? Criticizing BSP that by bringing these motives, we are always making excuses for something else is our fault and we are sowing a language of hatred. Dear citizens for the development of Bulgaria, it is not a coincidence that I am removing the law from the Bulgarian Parliament, and is it your fault that it is justified, since in recent documents, reports and resolutions it says that there is no rule of law, that there is a poor quality of the legislation in the Bulgarian Parliament, it concerns us that, as a result of the fact that corruption is already putting it into the laws, circles close to the government, benefit from European funds.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u179	Who are they?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u180	Is this also an excuse for Europe or is it a clear assessment of the level of work of the Bulgarian Parliament? Dear Bulgarian citizens, you have probably drawn the conclusions of today's debate. The only thing we can promise you is that this will change categorically with a majority of BSP and the group of BSP for Bulgaria. Now I want to disprove a few lies. Firstly, Mrs. Atanasova categorically lied that the last request for a Prime Minister's hearing was a year ago. Last one's from September this year. There are those in February, April, June, July, September and the latter is in connection with another F-16 contract. And at none of those hearings that we signed, the Prime Minister didn't come. I'm denying lie number one. Lie number 2 that in the last ten years when you rule, BSP and DPS are one. Having common positions on some issues cannot hide the truth, honourable rulers, which we have spoken from this tribune. Those years we were ruled by a new three-nation coalition, officially GERB and the United Patriarchs, but unofficially GERB, United Patriarchs and DPS. And if you're trying at the end of your term to disprove that, there's no way that's gonna happen. And now I'm going to say a few words for everyone. Let's have a soft word for criticism, let's say, which you have addressed to me personally. I understand your fixation in me, I counted up to twenty-several times saying my name, but I didn't get a personal explanation to say it now. I understand your fixation in me, but I can't take a few things. First of all, a real person sentenced to four years in prison to give me grades. And secondly, to call on you, honourable MPs, when you make suggestions or lie about the President of the BSP, to be bold to say it directly. Not to quote anyone saying that I am Mrs. Lying because I condemned Boyko Borisov for this claim. I convicted him! And he owes me expenses. So when you say Mrs. Lie, stand by your name and say so that you may be the next one I will condemn. With regard to the SDS, I have a judgmental decision against Prime Minister Borisov for another lie about something in common between me and the SDS. When you talk about it here, I want you to name me directly so we can meet in court. The same is true of the "Technoimpex". Four checks and all with one conclusion. [[GERB lines.]] When you talk about Technoimpex, do not insinuate criminal privatization. Come and say directly: Cornelia Ninova committed a privatization crime.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u181	Time's up, Mrs. Ninova. Please finish.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u182	To meet you in court for one reason only.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u183	Time's up, Mrs. Ninova. Please finish.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u184	I can protect my name. For one single reason, all these things will end up in court because we claim the rule of law.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u185	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u186	Sentences are part of this rule of law.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u187	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u188	One more sentence, Mr...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u189	One sentence.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u190	Because it took me three minutes. And one last thing. I didn't say a word about BSP's direct choice in this room. This is certainly a contribution to the political situation in Bulgaria, because direct choice is the power of direct democracy.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u191	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u192	And since you're quoting him a lot without...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u193	Still understand, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u194	Well, you quoted him as a direct choice. [[GERB lines.]] Last sentence.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u195	Mrs. Ninova, please finish the speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u196	I, honourable Members of the House, have received an evaluation of a direct election from the people. When one of you comes to a direct choice and wins it by 80%... [[(Comments from GERB:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u197	Mrs. Ninova, non-compliance with the Rules of Procedure, you see to what...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u198	...then come and talk to me about democracy, about direct choices and how the voice of the people is heard. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u199	Thanks for graduating after all. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Gurnevsky, you have the floor to speak. [[(Big part of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria........)................................) is leaving the hall. Replies from GERB.)]] Here you go, Mr. Gurnevsky. Do not be embarrassed by the fact that BSP colleagues are leaving the Chamber. I know you can talk without them.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u200	It's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u201	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for lately...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u202	Mr. Gurnevsky, excuse me. Mrs. Atanasova wants the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u203	You owe me 20 seconds. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u204	I'll give you 20 seconds, Mr. Gurnevsky. Mrs. Atanasova wants a personal explanation. Mr. Gurnevsky, give Mrs. Atanasova a chance to make the personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u205	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Personal explanation procedure. I'm using the case that I'm taking the floor to appeal to you to look at the middle of the room. For a minute I raised my hand and made a sign that I wanted a personal explanation of Mrs. Ninova's statement. As I have been stated by name, I would like to assure Mrs Ninova that the forms of parliamentary control, in accordance with our rules, are asking written and oral questions. It is also stated in the reasons of the draft decision of BSP colleagues. I never claimed that Mrs. Nino did not want to hear from Mr. Borisov in parliament. In addition, I also note that the topic of how, when and under what conditions was privatized "Technoimpex" was debated in 2001 in a book published by the High Council of BSP. And a sample of this book was correctly cited here. So, if Mrs. Ninova wants to sue someone, she should probably start with her party buddies, even exes. Thank you. [[Private applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u206	Thank you. Hold on, Mr. Gurnevsky. In the manner of conduct again there is the word Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u207	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Hristov, a very ugly lie was just told here. I will not hide behind the term "infidelity," I will say specifically: lie. I'll ask you, when someone throws such lies, to interrupt them, to reprimand them and tell them they're lying. Ms. Nino said she was chosen by 80% of Bulgarian citizens. Mrs. Ninova may very much wish to be elected by 80% of Bulgarian citizens, but that will never happen to her. It is chosen by some percentage, by members of the BSP. That's a very ugly lie. Definitely her statement seems to be relapseing already. Because I didn't quote my speech before, and I quoted Mrs. Dureva, I quoted Mr. Chervenyakov. Now I'm quoting myself. I say it in my own name that I'm against this lie, the big lie I can't help but object. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] It's to be interrupted when someone lies unpardonably from this tribune. He uses the stands as a private PR and plants lies in the state to be interrupted. Keep in mind, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u208	Can we do it the way we're doing it now?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u209	In the manner of conduct, Mr. Rashidov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u210	Dear Mr. Chairman, in the manner of conduct, I ask you very much that when BSP requests resignation and causes such a shameful debate, you do not let them out of the Chamber. I understand their fears, because when the President says, "Mouthy out!" When Gurnevsky comes to the hall, they leave the room again. I'm confused. I don't know who they're obeying, Radev or the fear of Gurnevsky? I'm asking them to come here and have their debate. Human destinies are not decided here. Go to me, come to me. Act like MPs if not to leave parliament at all. Thank you. As for the speech of my colleague from Volya, yes, and I 100% stand behind him.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u211	Thank you, Mr. Rashidov. I didn't let them go. They ran away. How do I stop them? You have the floor, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u212	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I had no intention of speaking, but since there have been two statements before me in the manner of conduct, I decided that I should still draw attention to the fact that our National Assembly, as well as every National Assembly, is governed by regulations, which was very rudely violated in Mrs Nino's speech. I have tried to bring it back to the item on the agenda that we are looking at, with Mrs. Ninova and a group of MPs, with the relevant motives, arguments........................................................................................ This should have been clarified and discussed here, and we have listened to a long speech, which has made a comment and analysis of the previous speeches so far, without any connection to the item on the agenda. Given that a statement could be requested on behalf of the BSP parliamentary group, outside the agenda, or so-called declarations. In this way, to express the attitude of the BSP parliamentary group and Mrs. Ninova's personal attitude towards speeches. It wasn't done. The rules have been violated. In my attempt to return discussions and debates to the item on the agenda, unfortunately, you have returned. My claim to you is don't come back as quickly as you let me lead. [[Laughter, applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u213	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. Do not experience your failure so much that you have failed to stop Mrs. Nino, I also failed to stop her and she broke the rules, but... Mr. Gurnevsky, it's your turn now. [[Reply from MP Dragomir Stoinev.]] The way you're leading it? Okay, here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u214	Dear Mr. President, you have repeatedly violated the Rules of Procedure with remarks, while the MPs speak from this tribune. Please keep your voice down, don't call, and don't stand in the way when the MPs are talking. All the more to listen to your reflections, which in no way contribute to the dialogue in this House. So go into your duties and follow closely the Rules of the National Assembly. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u215	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Your efforts will be appreciated by the right person. Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u216	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You'd be surprised, but my procedure is not in the way of conduct, but on behalf of the parliamentary group, I ask for half an hour's rest. [[Noise, lines from GERB and OP. Screams: "There is an unfinished statement. "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u217	You announced it in the manner of conduct, but there are statements that we haven't finished yet. [[Heckling]] Yeah, I get it. After all, I interrupted a statement, Mr. Hamid. [[Heckling]] Mr. Hamid, could you pay attention to me? Mr. Gurnevsky, come here. Mr. Hamid, I interrupted a statement. You will forgive me, but I will allow Mr. Gurnevsky to speak. [[Noise, lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u218	I agree.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u219	Okay, thank you. Mr. Gurnevsky, but that's where your stuff is. [[Noise and lines and shouts from all parliamentary groups. MPs from GERB are calling to MPs from BSP for Bulgaria Loud noise.]] Would you like to postpone, Mr. Gurnevsky?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u220	Where's my file?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u221	Here are your glasses. I will carry out my duties under the Rules of Procedure and put an end to this debate for 30 minutes. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u222	Dear colleagues, take your seats. Mr. Gurnevsky, they took your file, and I can't find my glasses. [[Noise and laughter.]] What's going on in this parliament? Colleagues, I'll wait for you to take your seats so that we can start our work calmly. Here you are, Mr. Shishkov. A statement on behalf of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u223	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! You joked a while ago that your glasses had disappeared, but I would like to make an address to fellow MPs and to Bulgarian citizens by clarifying a very unpleasant incident that happened just now. I would like to warn my colleagues first that apparently on the left some guerrilla habits have not yet been forgotten. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] In this room, it's stolen. [[(Reply from the National Representative Vezhdi Rashidov: "Bravo, catch him!]] Colleagues, what we have witnessed was extremely ugly and not only that we have brought down the bottom of the Bulgarian Parliament, but have already undermined it. That was a shame! What's this about? Just before the break, while Mr. Gurnevsky was waiting for his turn to speak, colleagues from BSP... [[(Replyes:..Who?....................................................................................]] Mr. Stoynev in the most imprudent way, there are witnesses to this, and there are cameras, so I can speak calmly, in the most undignified way he took his folder, which he prepared nearly two hours since I have sat next to him and witnessed. For two hours he prepared his statement, his folder was taken by Mr. Stoynev and served to Mr. Greekov, Gökov, excuse me, Georgi Gokov. And if this can be considered some kind of comrade joke at this stage, the consequences were much more severe because Mr. Gokov, in the most implausible way, went out with this folder from the hall. [[(Replication by the National Representative Vezdi Rashidov:]] Then he was welcomed by colleague Manev and asked the folder to be returned because the speech of colleague Gurnevski was still forthcoming. Instead of bringing this folder back in a very well-mannered manner and continuing the normal debate in the Chamber, Mr. Gokov began to object in the most imprudent way. More than that. [[Laughter and noise.]] More than that! Six members of the BSP group physically attacked colleague Manev. [[Laughter, lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I'm witnessing this! I'm a direct witness to the event! [[(Noise, lines, screams: ♪ Whoo! ♪]] As I said, there are also recordings, so everything will be released to the media. This is the bottom of the behavior of BSP colleagues, I have nothing else to characterize it with! Colleagues, we know that for you the low rating of the National Assembly works in your favor, but do not undermine the foundation on which you stand. It's insulting to all of us. I strongly insist that this case be taken out, along with the cameras, with the recordings, with the witnesses, to make it clear that BSP colleagues, as I said in the beginning, have a habit of stealing not only physical but also intellectual property. [[Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria...........................................]] Thank you. [[Lowered applause from all parliamentary groups and shouts: "Bravo!" by GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u224	Mr. Kutev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u225	Mr. Shishkov...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u226	In the manner of conduct, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u227	Yeah. Mr. Chairman, I have one request for you to stop this circus from happening, because I was one of the people who filmed, and there are a lot of things on my phone. I want to assure you that if they get off my phone, they'll end up at least in CNN, but they'll go around the world. I guarantee it! These footage I have here, they'll be in all the agencies in no time. Think about what needs to happen from now on and whether or not to come out, because I can give them up. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u228	Whatever the development of the events, Mr. Kutev, it is really shameful for the Bulgarian Parliament, starting from this tribune and continuing further. This is an excuse for the vice-presidents to feel uncomfortable. The others are... [[Reply by MP Vejdi Rashidov.]] Yes, you're right, Mr. Rashidov. You have the word in the manner of conduct.............................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u229	Mr. Chairman, you really need to stop this circus, because right now our colleague is saying that there are compromises against MPs that he will give them to CNN. [[Reply from the National Representative Manol Genov.]] That means you, the plumber, be quiet now! [[Laughter]] You shut up! I ask you, if there are such records and dirt, to signal to Geshev. You can't collect records and dirt for MPs! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u230	Thank you, Mr. Rashidov. It's good that we already know that there are such authentic records. It's not a secret. [[Reply from "BSP" for Bulgaria "It's not a secret!"]] It's not a secret. Mr. Genov, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u231	Dear Mr. Hristov, you just said that this matters to the Vice-Presidents and you mentioned some others, continue thinking to see who these others are. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u232	Let's get to the point. [[Reply by MP Vejdi Rashidov.]] You're right, Mr. Rashidov. Mr. Gurnevsky, come in. I hope nothing will disturb your statement. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u233	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At least the file's full, everything's inside. I hope those who took it have read something. But a communist is a communist. It could be a folder, but it has to steal something. [[Applause and laughter by GERB.]] The whole country looted during the transition, went to stationery, there was nothing left to steal in this country. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Now get to the point. In the debate today it became clear that there is not a single argument to request the resignation of the President of the National Assembly. After hearing your arguments today and yesterday, I threw a few things that I believe are at the heart of the request of this resignation. The requested resignation of the President of the National Assembly at this time is a satanic political feast during the plague, an attempt to coup against the legal Bulgarian government, aiming to reverse the European path of Bulgaria, and at a time when it has never been so economically stable and undisputed foreign policy authority in its history. [[Shouting from GERB: "Bravo! "]] We are witnessing an unprecedented anti-Bulgarian plot, instigated, organized and implemented by the joint efforts of national traitors, in several directions. [[Voices from DPS.]] First, President Rumen Radev, who launched this attempt to mutiny, fulfilling his commitments to those who installed him at this high post, a rebel pursuing his enemies for the presidential republic, of course, led by him; the executive directors of the mutiny, in the face of the poisonous trio appointed by the Supervisory Board of Communist oligarchs who looted Bulgaria in the criminal transition. Such a fundamental coup is unthinkable without the offensive of retrograde political forces. Who are they? It became clear yesterday and today when Ms. Karayancheva resigned. Today the shadowy mafia coalition of the hideous transition BSP again came to light. After the coup has failed to bring down the Bulgarian government for three months, his inspirations have decided that the destabilisation of the country should be achieved through a severe blow to parliament, eliminating its president. And this is no coincidence, because Parliament and its majority are an unshakable pillar against communist restorers. The DPS has been a loyal ally of the Red Nomenclature and DHS for 30 years because it was created by them. In all these editions of the National Assembly so far in the parliamentary groups of the DPS dominated proven agents of State Security. Let us remember the DPS-Arish noise against the government of Philip Dimitrov; the Triple Coalition; the portions Ahmed Dogan gave through the hoops of companies at his own recognition; the kiss of the Orlov Bridge (orlov Bridge) between Stanishev and Mestan, which disgusted the democratic community in the country. This was the kiss between the Devil and Judah, a kiss between the reborn and the reborn, a kiss between the executioner and the victims' lawyers. What's the motive for this red coup d'état? Firstly, this is the total political isolation in which they have fallen for more than 10 years, the collapse of the centenary, which leads her to the eradication of the party after the inevitable loss they are about to lose in the spring. This will not happen after the implementation of the Management Program of GERB and the Patriots, which means three times higher gross domestic product compared to 2014, three times higher incomes and three times higher social costs. International authority is growing. The Eurozone waiting room, the Bank Union, credit ratings and so on are indicative. An irreversibly European presence is next! Only a lightning coup, office and election under red control would rid the BSP of the guillotine of time. You see what they look like right now, even in the gym?! Back there, progressive socialists. Has anyone heard of progressive socialists around the world? [[(Reply from BSP for Bulgaria: I will explain it to you!]] But there is one back there, which means the others are unprogressive here. These are the heroes of the criminal looting and the criminal privatization. Here are the heirs of the former secretaries of the Central Committee of the BCP, grandchildren of legendary generals of State Security. Members of the BSP in the European Parliament, led by Yoncheva, are daughters and sons of State Security officers who collaborated with the KGB. True national traitors slandered their own homeland in Europe, welcoming the Istanbul Convention and reviving Comintern intervention for a Macedonian minority 70 years ago. Well, I ask: are we going to give these people the fate of Bulgaria in these days of trials and survival of every Bulgarian?! Ladies and gentlemen of the rebels, hands down by the President of the National Assembly! [[(Applause and cheering by GERB:]] Hands off the Bulgarian Prime Minister and his government! Hands off the Attorney General! Hands off free, independent and dignified European Bulgaria as Rakovski, Levski, Botev and Stambolov dreamed of, and today it is coming true! Thank you for your attention. [[(World applause and cheering by GERB. Announcements from the BSP for Bulgaria "Signature, resignation"]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u234	Thank you, Mr. Gurnevsky. Colleagues, please! In the manner of conduct, Mr. Tsonev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u235	Mr. Chairman, the procedure in the manner in which you are guided is as follows: you leave here the speaker to speak absolutely outside the subject. It's not enough that he's talking off the subject, but he's talking frank nonsense and ridiculous. Where did you see the DPS in this whole thing?! What DPS, what Ahmed Dogan, what stuff in this guy's mouth?! You let him say things that have nothing to do with the truth. The truth is that GERB is the product of these services. GERB to talk about services [[GERB noise and lines]] , GERB to talk about militia, GERB to talk about these things is frank cynicism, Mr. Chairman! GERB to talk about militiamen, when here is full of militiamen this is absolute insolence!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u236	To me, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u237	Yes, to you. [[GERB lines.]] GERB to talk about who is at the protest without mentioning the political-olligarchic circle of "Capital" whose product is GERB?! The political engineering of Krastev and Prokopiev created GERB, and creating GERB, they now headed the protest against you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u238	Okay, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u239	And you're absolutely shortsighted to see this thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u240	Mr. Tsonev, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u241	And the other one of you, Hristo Ivanov, headed the protest against his own judicial reform.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u242	Still, put me and me in this thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u243	No, it's obvious to you because you know these things.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u244	No, I don't know anything you're saying.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u245	And you're letting your pre-talking man talk nonsense from here. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u246	It wasn't pretty. Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u247	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You are making immense efforts to change the resignation request of the President of Parliament with a request for your resignation. You have allowed Spas Gurnevski for the 110th time from this tribune to read the same declaration, the same point of reference, even those who did not learn them, and it became an occasion for GERB's parliamentary group to make a declaration on behalf of the parliamentary group for the fact that his pasquila folder had disappeared. Those things he couldn't learn for four years, he speaks them every time from this tribune. We make a note of you every time, and you let that thing do it. Once again, I call on this man not to speak to him, or when he comes, from this tribune...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u248	How could such a thing be, Mr. Svilensky?! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] No, Mr. Svilensky!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u249	...to talk about it. Not a single line, Mr. Chairman, from what is written in his folder, is on the subject of Ms. Karayancheva's resignation. Not a single line! [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] Again insults, again qualifications to parliamentary groups, to chairmen of parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u250	What are you offering me?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u251	To you, as Head of the Assembly, because there are not few people in your parliamentary group related to the Bulgarian Communist Party, to the Prime Minister, who was a member of the Bulgarian Communist Party, and you let him speak these things from this tribune again to concern the Bulgarian society and to waste parliamentary time. My request is once again, really, this man more of a word by such...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u252	No, you're not supposed to say that from the parliamentary stand, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u253	Mr. Chairman, when it's not on the subject, you have the right to take the floor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u254	No. You're trying to ban from here, from the parliamentary stand, the law... [[Reply by National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] Do not try to ban MPs from expressing their opinion from the parliamentary tribune. [[Replication by National Representative Georgi Svilenski: "This is not an opinion. "]] Let's move on. Mr. Ermenkov, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u255	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chairman, to you is my remark. Yesterday I took the liberty of telling you that you are not the host of a television show, but you have clearly realized that you want to be the one. Because when a Member of the National Assembly comes out here and takes a procedure in the manner of conduct, you should listen to it from the back then you have the right for two minutes to take an attitude in his procedure and not in the middle of his speech to interrupt it. Moreover, you are here at the moment allowing yourself to make comments about whether you like it or not, whether it is in line with what the majority wants to hear or not. That doesn't suit you either! And the last thing I want to say to you is the behavior of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. Before the break it was not an escape, as you defined it, you can see the stenogram, but it was a clear political expression of our attitude towards what colleagues of GERB are trying to insinuate through Mr. Gurnevski's mouth, to introduce a topic that has nothing to do with Ms. Karayancheva's resignation, and ultimately to insult at least 70% of those who were here at the time, including GERB, including you, Mr. President, who were members of the Bulgarian Communist Party! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u256	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. I'm looking extremely seriously at what I'm doing right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u257	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u258	I'll give you the floor, Mr. Angelov. I'm not trying to win any extra points. And you, Mr. Ermenkov, and you? In the manner of holding Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u259	Mr. President, in the manner of holding, I appeal to you to say that you should have more strongly opposed a speech of the kind that should not be given the floor of a Member of the National Assembly and should be forbidden from speaking from the stand of the National Assembly! No one can forbid a Member of the National Assembly or any person to speak and speak their mind! [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] This is the democracy of BSP and the DPS who are preparing to rule us, Mr. Chairman! [[Applause from OP.]] They, as opposition, want to ban people from speaking, let alone coming to power! Be more explicit, do not allow such speakers to prohibit other people from speaking out of this tribune, because it was not essentially on the subject! And when Mrs. Ninova, Mr. Chairman, did not speak on the subject and a comment was made to her, the whole left half jumped and yelled at why she was not allowed to speak on the subject! Then they come out and they have the opposite that someone hasn't really spoken about it! This is duplicity and double archin, which the BSP and the DPS will obviously apply in the next management. [[(Comments from GERB: We will not allow it!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u260	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. I agree with what you have said, all the more so that this is not the first case. Mr. Popov, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u261	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! My procedure is the way I conduct myself. After Mr. Gurnevsky here introduced us to another of our déjà vus, because every time he speaks from this tribune, he is never on the agenda, you should have interrupted him and directed him to the agenda. You didn't have that power in any way! You didn't even comment on Mr. Gurnevsky. I tried to catch the leitmotiv in another statement he made, yes, it's really hard to catch a leitmotiv from ody for communism to the communists in Siberia. I admit, it's hard for me. Maybe it's hard for you, too. But I can think of a line by Margaret Thatcher, and it is good to remind her of Mr. Gurnevsky, who said that leaving politics would start a business that is called Rent a spine. Good niche for you, Mr. Gurnevsky, get yourself a spine.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u262	Thank you, Mr. Popov. [[(GERB lines: Was this in the way of conduct?]] No, it wasn't the way it was, quite certain. Let's move on. Statements? Mr. Bikov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u263	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! There is hardly a speaker of parliament who is able to do such damage to the authority of the National Assembly, which brings such debates. It's definitely all our fault. The Bulgarian Parliament remembers the resignations of the Presidents of the National Assembly and these were political acts. This is not about Mrs. Tsveta Karayancheva's personality, which I respect and believe is worthy of this post. Your goal is not Ms. Karayancheva. It was formulated by colleagues who said: "The President's resignation! Resignation of the government!......................... and so on. There have been resignations and they have always been motivated to violate the authority of the National Assembly. What violated the authority of the National Assembly was Stefan Savov a former political prisoner, a construction worker and a brilliant translator from Spanish who was overthrown by BSP and DPS in 1992? They weren't against him. Then they took down Philip Dimitrov and then came one of the darkest governments of Bulgaria in the face of Professor Lyuben Berov. What has Professor Gerdjikov's resignation achieved, and with what has he violated the authority of parliament? Nothing. But then political brokers entered the station. In this parliament resigned Mr. Glauchev. And this was Mr. Glauchev's personal act, with one goal not to destroy political dialogue in parliament. Political dialogue has been destroyed by you despite this resignation. That is why Ms. Karayancheva's resignation will achieve nothing. It will neither restore political dialogue nor make you more inclined to behave civilizedly in this building. Therefore, we will not support this resignation; it does not make any sense and will do any good except that you will take some political step in your campaign to power, along with your old coalition partners and...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u264	Finish it, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u265	...with potential new coalition partners from Democratic Bulgaria! That is the purpose of this resignation and we will not support it! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u266	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. Is there anyone else who wants to make a statement? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Mrs. Karayancheva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u267	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! There are such coalitions that survive in spite of political logic. They survive by ignoring the interests of their sympathizers. They survive because they're well-fused by the common interest of their elites. They seem to be fighting, secretly making up, apologizing, kissing on bridges. Eternal friendships of eternal interest! From time to time, these coalitions come out in the light to check whether the replacements of the time of the Triple Coalition have already been forgotten, or the painful months of Oresharski. They have justified the same request in a different way. The one on the parliamentary stand and the other on the stand. And they shyly surround each other on their sidelines and briefings, pretending each other is for themselves and just happens to be together. My fellow Members, I am not infallible and I have never said that. Thank you to those of you who have said nice things about me. I would also like to thank the BSP coalition for giving me the opportunity to defend myself from the parliamentary tribune and thus respond to their synchronized attack. The fact that my statement from three years ago was in the motives for my resignation is indicative of the weakness of the motives of BSP and DPS collected from nine wells. These are words by which I confirm that I will not forget the citizens of my electoral area, in which is my parliament reception and in which I meet people from different parties every week, with different political views. It almost suggests that knowing your electoral district and his problems is a bad thing, a sin in front of the Constitution! Mrs. Nino, it seems, still can't forget the shame when her paratrooper, Mr. Simov, head of the list in Kardzhali, was unable to answer the simple question: how many municipalities in Kardzhali district?! [[Laughter at GERB.]] The bottom line is that you don't need to know the area and the people in it, that they don't need to know you, turned around after that unfortunate debate. Now we see the reheating of the same supporting point. Why, before elections, then, do parties line up their lists in regions and ask their supporters from these regions about nominations?! Oh, I'm sorry, GERB is asking its supporters. Not everyone does! Let's not forget, however, that in 2017 Slavi Binev bloomed head of the lists of DPS as a slap in the face of many of their voters! Or Mr. Simov, who landed in Kardzhali the day before the party's registration! And the confidence of Kardzhali, colleagues, will be measured in the elections in six months. Let's move on to the reasons for my resignation. Obstruction of normal legislative activity and effective parliamentary control. By Constitution...................................................................................... 77, para. 1, t. Art. 2 and Art. 2 53, para. 1, the President shall propose a draft agenda. This agenda, according to art. 9, para. 2, p. 1 of the Rules of Procedure shall consult the Presidential Council every Wednesday before entering the Chamber, after which the Programme shall be put to the vote here in this Chamber. Colleagues of the BSP, while you were still participating in the Conference of Presidents until two weeks ago, not once, with little exceptions, have you raised any questions, bills on which there is no movement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u268	Why do we have to put them on?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u269	It's your job!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u270	The Rules guarantee you two options............................................................................... 53, para. 3 and para. 8, and as MPs, and as a parliamentary group to submit your bills that enter into the Programme for the upcoming week. Under art. 53, para. 8 This happens without voting every first Wednesday of the month! A little statistic, colleagues. For this term of office from 19 April 2017 to the day of the 15 October 2020, I remove April and May, when we were in a state of emergency this year, and the month of August, because it is a holiday, there are 37 possible environments. You've only exercised your right to this text 15 times. That makes about 41% of the cases. The bills entering the Programme on a proposal from the President are a matter of priorities and policies of the ruling majority. Let us return to the mandates of your majority and see how many bills of opposition are included, except in cases under art. 53. I stress that the Rules give you opportunities that you do not take advantage of. After all, you have adopted 15 of your bills. Systemically hindering the hearing and participation of Boyko Borisov in the parliamentary control and placing in submission of the legislative by the executive authority I read to you the title of the reasons. Honourable Members, the procedure you are doing to hear the Prime Minister or the Minister is not a procedure governed by the Rules. I'm referring to yesterday when one of my fellow MPs asked for the Home Secretary to come here. He responded, but there is no such hypothesis in the Rules that someone should go out on the stand and say, "Shout to me, who are you?" The Rules are regulated: parliamentary control, including questions......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 96, para. 1 The Everything here under these procedures is promptly admitted to consideration in the Chamber. About the questions to Prime Minister Borisov. Listen carefully, fellow Members, please write down even so that you can calculate what number of irresponsible questions we are talking about. Total questions asked to Prime Minister Borisov 38. 23 questions have been answered. On 13 of these 23, Prime Minister Borisov answered. The respective ministers to whom the Members of the National Assembly have re-addressed them after I have notified them of non-compliance with the Rules of Procedure. Three questions are challenged on eligibility under art. 107, para. 3 The contested question shall enter into a meeting of the Conference of Presidents and the Conference of Presidents shall be given a ruling. Note, however, that 15 issues have remained unrealized at the will of the MPs themselves, which means that they have neither re-addressed nor challenged them. Now let's get to the questions. Questions to Boyko Borisov " 23. At 11 a reply was received, 5 the Prime Minister answered, 6 the respective ministers, to whom the MPs re-addressed them after I informed them of non-compliance with the Rules of Procedure. On 5 questions is challenged eligibility under art. 107, para. 3 and the Conference of Presidents did not allow them. Twelve questions have remained unrealized at the will of the MPs themselves, which shows how important these questions and questions are if the MPs themselves do not realize them or dispute them. What's the bottom line? They're addressed to the prime minister so they can get into statistics and say there are questions returned to the prime minister or I hide it. Colleagues, ask questions eligible under Constitution and Rules! Regarding failure to comply with the President's obligations under the Election Code and the Anti-Corruption Act. Dear Mr Karadayi, the authority authorized by the National Assembly's Rules of Procedure is the Anti-Corruption Commission, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics. This is the Commission to which declarations of incompatibility are submitted and checks of those declarations by signal shall be carried out. A signal came in on June 11th. It was addressed to the Commission and directly received there. It's been examined and there's a solution for non-compromising. 8 MPs voted on June 27, 2019. Mr. Simeonov, who also supported the decision, was from the DPS Group. Following receipt of a reply from the CONPI because a letter was sent by the Commission to the KKCONPI, the Commission again met on the case on 19 September and again unanimously voted that there was no incompatibility. There are already two of your MPs present there. Mr. Ihsan Hakke and Simeon Simeonov. Once again, it has been unanimously voted on. On November 11th, a repeated signal was received addressed to me. I've been on sick leave, Mr. Hristov forwarded it to the Commission on jurisdiction on the same day. On 21 November a decision was again voted that incompatibility is missing, and there again is Mr. Simeonov. The Commission received the signals, examined them and pronounced itself. This shows that an inspection has been carried out and there is a pronunciation by the authorized support body of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u271	You're lying right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u272	Given that you have MPs in this committee, they could have informed you of the situation and if you wish to initiate an act that I would propose as an item on the agenda as President. By virtue of art. 72 of the Constitution, the President shall propose an agenda. What exactly do you expect the President to propose, given that there is nothing tabled by either the Anti-Corruption Commission or any Member of the National Assembly?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u273	That's it!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u274	The President shall propose on the agenda acts which are provided for in the Constitution.. Drafts, draft decisions, declarations, addresses, reports and reports of bodies. Is there anything anyone has put into this and I haven't put it on the agenda? Taking into account the provisions of art. Art. 35 and art. 36 of the Law on Countering Corruption and Art. 50, para. 3 and para. 4 of the Election Code, any Member of the National Assembly on the basis of documents can make an assessment of compliance with the requirements of the law and possibly take an initiative to take part in the case by the National Assembly, which is an authority for the election of the members of the CEC according to art. 46, para. 4 of the Election Code. The Rules on the Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly do not contain any provision in those laws or other regulation which obliges the President of the National Assembly in this capacity to take autonomous action in such cases. Any Member of the National Assembly may submit a draft decision, and after my letter, for nearly a month now, there are still no proposals for anything on the case. Everyone has the documents, every parliamentary group has two representatives on this committee. The DPS also has two representatives who could take steps to submit proposals. No act has been submitted at this time. If there is a draft act, the President may include it in the Programme. I can't do any more than that.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u275	That's enough for a resignation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u276	The next motive is violated principles of publicity and transparency in the work of the National Assembly. As you already know, the idea for the new parliament building has been since 2007 and has always been available to the media. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u277	You're yelling at me about what, huh?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u278	The idea of this distribution has never been to limit media access to information. [[Noise, lines, calls.]] Journalists have a spacious hall, they are equipped with monitors that monitor real-time meetings and writers, and photographers have access to the plenary room itself in the media area. They have a special place where MPs make statements and press conferences. They have the possibility of live inclusions in their broadcasts and news releases, and to conduct personal interviews. In addition, journalists have full access to the conference room, as well as to the meetings of all permanent parliamentary committees. During the entire long process of reconstruction, the media has not submitted any objections. From the moment we moved, however, there have already been two petitions to me. On the basis of these petitions, on 30 September, I allowed access to the lobby called the National Assembly Club without putting this decision to the Presidential Council. Since many colleagues continued to exercise populists on the subject of the movement of journalists, I decided to discuss the subject at the Presidency Council. On 2 October, I called an extraordinary chairmanship council to which I proposed that we free the media from access to the entire building. I suggested we put him to the vote. The present colleagues gave an initial opinion. Some have said that opening the Club of the People's Representative is a good enough solution, but they still need to consult their parliamentary groups. There was no representative from the BSP of this Chairmanial Council. I personally invited the gentlemen Svilenski and Zarkov to introduce them to the proposal presented to the extraordinary Presidency Council. I have sent official letters to all parliamentary groups requesting a reply within the time limit. I quote here the final of the letter:....................................................................................................... Now I ask you publicly: is this silent consent or silent refusal? Or are we in the room for transparency, but secretly we hope that doesn't happen?! The next motive is unacceptable and inappropriate public behaviour leading to the destruction of the prestige of the National Assembly. It says in the motives that I have offended the Bulgarian people at party meetings in Lom. I always treat myself with suspicion when politicians start speaking on behalf of the people. You, Mrs. Ninova, as you speak on behalf of the people, are so fiercely defending Professor Hristov today from your parliamentary group, who said that 80% of the Bulgarian people are retarded. So on this occasion, not on behalf of the people, on my behalf, I want to tell you: enough hypocrisy! [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] I would stress one thing: on numerous occasions and on various occasions it has been about the need to distinguish institutional speaking from speaking on Facebook, what is essentially my statement in Lom, uploaded to live on my wall. Even a new board game appeared "Take inspirational words from previous great presidents and compare them with a line said at a pure party meeting or a rally. [[Noise and lines.]] This board game, however, colleagues, and we can play it. I will give you an example with speeches by previous heads of state of Bulgaria: Our work is sacred and, hopefully, God will take it under his protection and give us the help we need to overcome and beat our enemies! Our duty, our duty from the smallest to the greatest, is to preserve and strengthen unity. His incentive is the infinite love for the motherland that lives through generations. Let us, by doing our duty, be united in the name of what remains behind us, and what should be our cult of the Fatherland! Let's close the illusion factory! Finally, President Rumen Radev, elected by the BSP coalition, DPS: That's the way it is. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] Finally, a few words about recordings and who, how it disrupts Parliament's rating. I must admit, colleagues, that the MPs from BSP and DPS have been imitating civilization for some time since the appearance in some media of some recordings whose authenticity has not been proven to date. I have received many calls and messages of support from representatives of most political forces not publicly, of course, but they have helped me on a difficult day for me. Of course, I also thank my colleagues from GERB's parliamentary group. And I was grateful for them. But today I see they were fake. That's too bad. Apparently, the test of maintaining nobility for a longer period of time has proved too difficult for some people. The masks fell and the supposed recordings were used as weapons even from the parliamentary tribune. Now Mrs. Ninova wants my resignation because I didn't resign. Where exactly is my fault? And why don't I hear you asking for the resignations of government officials hearing in the same unproven recording? Why did I have to sink into nothingness, disappear perhaps from the face of the Earth because of a sentence at my address, which the supposedly recorded categorically and repeatedly denies saying? [[Voices: "Eee!" by "BSP for Bulgaria".]] Again, I admit from this tribune that I took the gloat, the cover-up, or not after that publication. [[(noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria]] [[Relations from the National Representative Dragomir Stoinev.]] Yes, Mr. Stoinev, it's ugly from the mouth of a lady and from your mouth. [[Relations from the National Representative Vejdi Rashidov.]] I admit there were times when I wanted to disappear myself, to jump off a rock from the Rhodopes. [[(noise, lines, shouts from BSP for Bulgaria]] As well as a few months earlier, when hardly bearable lies were spilled on my behalf after the accident in which I suffered. It is difficult to be a woman in politics, as you probably well know, Mrs. Ninova, but it is precisely because we are women that we find sometimes the unsuspected power to continue. You're not honored to use weapons from the arsenal of the darkest misogynism. Not everything in politics should be allowed. The only thing I'm going to say is that I've never been given any advice from the executive authority or my party to play the part that I don't understand even in the most censored version. In contrast, I have always had complete freedom to judge my conduct and words in meetings with both foreign parliamentary delegations and ambassadors and fellow politicians in our country. Dear colleagues... [[Noise and lines.]] I'm graduating. Have a little more patience. Have you heard the archaic word disgrace? It has many meanings: a place for public execution of bodily punishments and executions, spectacle, scene. In Serbian, it's used for theater. Today the Bulgarian Parliament is all in combination with voluntary, conscious disgrace, defamation and defamation of the National Assembly in order to discredit its President. We are talking about a low trust of an institution whose authority should be strongly defended by 240 legitimately elected MPs. According to the opposition, however, the unsatisfied rating of a collective body and the downfall of Mrs. Ninova, according to the words of Bulgaria's Prestige in Europe, is mainly based on her chairman's shoulders. Prestige, which its MEPs publicly eroticized. Don't hide behind false morals and even more false scruples! Your goal is not to remove the legally elected and publicly concluded ruling coalition from power. [[Applause from GERB.]] However, you forget that this power was won in elections with the vote of Bulgarian citizens not with riots and coups, not with bargaining and coercion, not agreed in the dark on the sidelines. My honor is not a function of your assessment. My honor cannot be taken away from you at least. Thank you. [[World and long applause from GERB and OP and leg up.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u279	Thank you, Mrs. Karayancheva. [[(Voices from BSP for Bulgaria:]] You guys, this is unworthy! [[Voices from BSP for Bulgaria: Resign! Resignation!]] Guys, it's unworthy! Stop it! Let's move on, guys.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u280	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u281	Mr. Karadaye, in the manner of conduct, I think we've graduated... [[(Noise and lines from GERB: The debate is closed!]] Wait, don't push it. What do you mean? No, don't challenge the hall, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u282	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, my procedure is in the manner of conduct. A moment ago, when a Member of the National Assembly here, out of this tribune, called for you to violate the Rules of the National Assembly, you violently interrupted him and did not give him the opportunity to speak. A moment ago, when we heard Mrs Karayancheva's statement calling for a violation of the Constitution, of the laws of the country and of the Rules, and of obvious lies expressed here by this tribune, you remained silent. I'll tell you, Mr. Chairman, what this is about. [[(Noise and lines from GERB: "In the manner of ……]] That's the way it is. Please don't interrupt me. Thank you! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u283	Mr. Karadaye, please pay attention to me and let's finish.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u284	Dear Mr. Chairman, are you going to put in order, or are you waiting for my time to end, because I'm going to take again in the manner of keeping...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u285	No, you shouldn't.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u286	...and about your behavior.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u287	You shouldn't.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u288	Yes, thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, the authority for the election of members in the leadership of the Central Election Commission is the National Assembly. The National Assembly as a collective body shall have a chairman. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the President must also organise the work. According to the KKCONPI Act, a service check must be carried out first, even though it has not been carried out, then there are signals... [[(Noise and lines from GERB: "In the manner of ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u289	You're right, colleagues. Mr. Karadaye, please to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u290	...which, until today, for a year and a half have not been considered, and from here, there was a request that this thing would not be fulfilled. Dear colleagues from GERB, honourable Members of the National Assembly,
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u291	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. Please respect the regulations.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u292	... You and your act will now show whether you will violate and swear by the Members of the National Assembly in accordance with art. 76, para. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u293	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u294	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for bringing order to this House. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u295	Let's move on, guys. I'll introduce you to: Project! DECISION for the early release of Tsveta Valcheva Karayancheva from the position of President of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 5, para. 1, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Releases early Tsveta Valcheva Karayancheva from the post of Chairman of the 44th National Assembly. Please, voting mode. Vote 222 MPs: 97 against 125 abstentions. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] The offer is not accepted. Mrs. Daritkova, hold on.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u296	There's been an incorrect vote. I'm asking for a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u297	I get it. We'll reschedule the proposal. Please, voting mode. Vote 223 MPs: 97 against 126 abstentions. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u298	Negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u299	Negative vote, Mr. Velchev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u300	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Today, as one President of the National Assembly said, is a sad day for Bulgarian parliamentaryism, not only for democracy, and I will tell you why. Because a vendetta was aimed here not against the President of the National Assembly, but against the regional coordinator of GERB in Kardzhali. Because these two parties will tell you that in 2006, when we created GERB, I was amazed that Bulgaria as a member of the European Union in Kardzhali had people who were afraid to say their opinions on any political issue. These two parties had divided Kardzhali and no other party could enter Kardzhali. I must tell you that a priest in Kardzhali was organizing meetings with me with people in Kardzhali, residents of Kardzhali, whether Muslims or Christians who were afraid to say what they were thinking, and at night I met them. We've been looking for a co-ordinator three times, until we find Tsveta. But the good thing about all this, of this fiasco, is that these people in Kardzhali are watching now or they'll know what happened here. They remember very well these days, although everyone wanted you to forget them. But, I say again, this woman stood up to a conglomerate in Greece... [[Reply from "BSP" for Bulgaria "Wrong!"]] In Kardzhali, where... Yes, one can make a mistake, only you are sinless. You and the DPS! These people didn't believe that they could come to me and say: no other party can lead here because everyone has torn apart the Kardzhali region. This is the girl who managed to unite and attract both Muslims and Christians and unite them. [[Applause from GERB.]] And if we are talking about human rights, it is one of the factors in Kardzhali to respect people's rights. So what you wanted to do, and we're embarrassing ourselves as a parliament, is that you're putting the hatred, because it shows you both in the faces and from those speaking here in the stands. So much hate hasn't seen people out there protesting than here among you. [[Applause from GERB.]] Thank you. We can't support such a request. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u301	Thank you, Mr. Velchev. [[The National Representative Evgeni Budinov offers flowers to the President Tsveta Karayancheva. Wild and long applause by GERB and OP and leg up.]] Dear Mrs. Karayancheva, please take your place at the President's seat at the 44th National Assembly. [[World and long applause from GERB and OP and leg up.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u302	Thank you. Dear colleagues, thank you for your support. I'm gonna make it worth your while! [[World and long applause by GERB and OP.]] Let's continue with today's agenda. Thank you again!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u303	Support for violation of the Constitution. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u304	Colleagues, we continue with the second item of today's agenda: REPORT ON THE WORK OF THE PROCURATE ON THE APPLICATION OF THE LAW IN THE JANUARY PERIOD "AUGUST 2020', A COORDINAL DECISION OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION OF 23 JULY 2020 Importer is the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria on 8 October 2020. Mrs. Alexandrova, would you like to introduce us to the Commission's opinion?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u305	Thank you, Madam President. Before that, I would like to do two procedures. The first is to extend today's meeting until the end and vote on the second item of today's agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u306	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. Please vote on the procedure so made. Vote 150 MPs: 137 against 11, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. The second procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u307	The second procedure is based on art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly "The procedure for the admission of Mr. Ivan Geshev "The Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria."
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u308	Please vote on the procedure so made. They voted 142 MPs: 142, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Attorney General to the courtroom. Mrs. Alexandrova, introduce us to the Opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u309	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! "COMMODITY" on a report on the activities of the Prosecutor's Office on the implementation of the law in the period from January to August 2020, pursuant to a decision of the National Assembly of 23 July 2020, No 027-00-3, submitted by the Prosecutor General on 8 October 2020. At its meeting held on 14 October 2020, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Report on the activities of the Prosecutor's Office for Law Enforcement in the period January "August 2020" according to a decision of the National Assembly of 23 July 2020, No 027-00-3, submitted by the Prosecutor General on 8 October 2020. The meeting was attended by the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Ivan Geshev. The report on the activities of the Prosecutor's Office on the implementation of the law in the period January "August 2020" was presented by the Prosecutor General, who pointed out that it contains data on the activities of the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria (the Prosecutor's Office) on the formation, movement and completion of the files and cases. For the reporting period, a total of 162,821 files were observed in the prosecution, of which the newly formed files were 142 112. The average number of files observed by one prosecutor in the district prosecutions was 159.4 and one prosecutor from the district prosecutor's office observed an average of 58.1. A single prosecutor of appeal was looking at a total of 118.1 files. The files solved by the prosecutor's office were 151 199, with a single district prosecutor deciding on an average of 147.9 pieces, and in district and appeals prosecutions the solved files were 53.5 pieces and 112.5 pieces respectively. During the period considered, prosecutors participated in a total of 74,652 court meetings at all types of supervision. The average number of participations in one prosecutor's court meetings by district prosecutors is 56.5 meetings and the district prosecutor's office is 61.4 meetings. On average, a district attorney submitted 21,2 acts to the court, and an average of 3.6 acts were filed by the district prosecutors. The pre-trial proceedings of the prosecution were 147 275, of which 62 042 were newly formed and the procedures decided by 91 335. The average number of pre-trial proceedings observed by one prosecutor in the district prosecutions is 165.1 and 36.2 in district prosecutions. Out of the overall pre-trial proceedings in court were filed by indictment 18 351. Within 8 months, 26 609 pre-trial proceedings have been decided, over 1 year.. 4853 proceedings, and 2690 pre-trial proceedings have been resolved within 2 years. Of the cases brought to court, 18 351 pre-trial proceedings returned to the prosecutor's office represent 2.9 percent. Of the 20,366 persons sentenced and sanctioned to court, 17 143 or 84.2 per cent. With regard to the activity of investigators in the district prosecutions and the special prosecutors, the average number of pre-trial proceedings investigated by one investigator is 22,2 proceedings, with the total number of proceedings over the period being completed 35.1 per cent. The pre-trial proceedings observed in cases of special public interest are 19 731 pieces. The prosecutorial acts submitted to the court in cases of special public interest constitute proceedings against organised crime, corruption crimes, money laundering, abuse in the absorption and management of funds and property from EU funds or provided by them to the Bulgarian State, tax crimes, counterfeiting of payment instruments and money signs, drug trafficking and trafficking in human beings. In total, 2948 cases of special public interest were brought to justice by those convicted with an entry into force. Investigators at the National Investigation Service, the District Prosecutors' Investigation Departments and the Special Prosecutor's Office investigated a total of 7739 pre-trial proceedings, and in 2684 pre-trial proceedings the investigation was closed and 545 counts had a court opinion. In exercising administrative supervision of legality, the Supreme Administrative Prosecutor's Office has examined a total of 1231 files, with 1177 figures solved. The territorial prosecutions have examined a total of 13 131 files, of which 11 956 pieces have been solved. In its activities, the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office observed 28 411 files, with 26 855 of them solved. Prosecutors from the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office have participated in 532 cases.. 495 criminal cases and 37 civil cases. With regard to the cooperation and interaction of the Prosecutor's Office with state and other bodies and organisations, it is noted that during the period considered instructions, agreements, orders and other acts aimed at ensuring and improving institutional interaction in the field of: combating crimes against medical staff in emergency medical and health care centres are signed; speeding up the investigation into two and more pre-trial proceedings conducted against the same accused; carrying out checks on compliance with the Waste Management Act and the Environmental Protection Act; improving the organisation in the field of investigation of transport crimes; countering drug offences; establishing measures to protect, limit and overcome the effects of the spread and infection with the HIV-19 virus, as well as assisting the Commission's activities to counter corruption and to withdraw illegally acquired property. In connection with the exercise of its constitutional powers, the Prosecutor General has submitted a request with the subject: giving mandatory interpretation of the provision of art. 103 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and constitutional case No 1/2020 was initiated on the request and the Constitutional Court ruled by Decision No 12 of 20 July 2020. It was added that the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria prepared and submitted to the National Assembly or to other institutions opinions on 10 bills. The Prosecutor General pointed out that the efforts of the three authorities within their functional competence are required to achieve good results in the fight against crime. He thanked colleagues in the prosecution, investigation departments and employees of the Ministry of Interior for hard work under the conditions dictated by the pandemic of COVID-19. In the discussion of the report took part the MPs Anna Alexandrova, Krasimir Tzipov, Christian Mitev, Stoyan Bozhinov, Simeon Naydenov, Christian Vigenin, Philip Popov, Krum Zarkov and Yavor Bozhankov. A number of questions were asked to Mr. Geshev. In response to the questions put by Mr. Vigenin, Mr. Bojankov and Mr. Zarkov, Mr. Geshev said that to limit the disproportion in the workload of prosecutors from different regions concrete measures have been taken and as of 1 January 2021 another 38 district prosecutors will be converted into territorial departments. The Prosecutor General explained that by Decision No 6 of 6 June 2017, the Constitutional Court gave binding instructions on the scope of the reports of the Prosecutor General within the meaning of art. 84, p. 16 sentence 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and added that the export of data in particular criminal proceedings is unacceptable. Mr. Geshev pointed out that the prosecution is unified, but its powers are limited to methodological guidance, supervision of legality and administrative activity and added that the removal of data in specific cases is carried out with the permission of the monitoring prosecutor in the case, aiming to inform citizens and transparency of the prosecution's activities in compliance with the legal requirements and presumption of innocence. In response to Mr. Tsipov's question, the Prosecutor General has clarified that at the moment there are about 50 analyses of privatization checks carried out, which aim to clarify whether there are grounds for criminal proceedings against senior officials and officials involved in privatisation transactions and whether these acts have been repaid on limitation. On the occasion of the questions put by the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Christian Mitev, Mr. Geshev pointed out that the difficulties involved in criminal policy are also the result of the need to update the Penal Code and formalistic process. Following the debates held, the Committee on Legal Issues with 14 votes for the Council, 7 votes against the Council and without abstention, adopted a Report on the activities of the Prosecutor's Office on Law Enforcement in the period January, August 2020, in accordance with a decision of the National Assembly of 23 July 2020, No 027/3, submitted by the Prosecutor General on 8 October 2020, and proposed to the National Assembly a draft decision on its adoption. If I may, I'll introduce you: Project! ? RESPONSIBILITY? on a report on the activities of the Prosecutor's Office on the implementation of the law in the period January "August 2020'. The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 in relation to art. 84, p. 16 sentence second of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 138a, para. 2 of the Law on the Judiciary HAS DECIDED Adopts a Report on the activities of the Prosecutor's Office on the implementation of the law in the period January "August 2020."
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u310	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. Mr. Attorney General, you're welcome to make a presentation of the report in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u311	Dear Madam President of the National Assembly, honourable Members! I am honored to present the Prosecutor's Office's Office's Office and its results for the first eight months of 2020. Parliament is the highest authority in a parliamentary republic and it is important to me that the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria be accountable and transparent, and we have no concerns about presenting our reports to the National Assembly. On the contrary, as I said in the Legal Commission yesterday, we have a desire for a permanent dialogue with both the National Assembly and the individual committees, because we are clearly aware that the results that the Bulgarian society expects from us by saying us, I mean the prosecution, and by all the other authorities in the country to combat crime, can only be achieved with interaction between the individual authorities within their functional competence, naturally, in strict compliance with, as I said, the separation of authorities and mutual control between the authorities. This includes not only interaction between the three authorities, this includes interaction between the individual institutions, in general, in the law enforcement system in which I also include the judiciary, part of which is the prosecution. I will not give statistics and bore you with it, it was pointed out by Mrs. Alexandrova. I'll just say that it shows that the prosecution's work is constantly improving. It is sufficient to state that the number of cases returned permanently decreased in the first eight months is 2.9% of all the cases returned, while the justified persons with an entry into court by all persons in respect of whom a judicial decision was entered into force are 1.9%. At the outset, I would like to draw attention to the fact that no report has been submitted and presented to the National Assembly in such a format. I explained to the Legal Committee that the prosecutor's statistics, the prosecution's analytical reports are drawn up on a six-month, nine-month and annual basis. In view of the respect I have for the various types of authorities, in particular the National Assembly, the prosecution has done everything possible to prepare this report in requests from the National Assembly format and it is an honor for me to present it to you. On this occasion they are part of my deputies, including the spokesperson of the Attorney General. I will briefly say just a few highlights from yesterday's presentation to the Legal Committee, which I consider particularly important, as I said, without boring you with statistics. Especially important for the work of the Prosecutor's Office is the spread of the pandemic situation. In relation to the exceptional measures introduced on 13 March 2020, the Chief Prosecutor's Office has established a headquarters in the Prosecutor's Office and has established an organisation in the territorial prosecutions to notify the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office of any proceedings of 355, 326 and other criminal groups, in relation to the rules, measures and conditions of the emergency situation. By order of the Prosecutor General of 21 January 2020, an organization has been established to carry out effective control of the fight against crime by revealing criminal activity and speeding up investigations with regard to persons with two or more pre-trial proceedings against the same defendant. As a result, only the first five months of this year of the 2114 cases observed in this category were completed 1470 and 1201 of them were filed in court. This is particularly important and I mention it to you because these are individuals who definitely influence the criminogenic situation, especially in small towns, and this is one of the chronic problems that I intend to point out to you. At the beginning of the year a joint activity of the Prosecutor's Office and the Ministry of Interior for conducting specialized police operations began. As you know, another chronic problem in these years is so-called domestic or conventional crime, and I, in some of my visits to almost the whole country, in the settlements, people say that this is the most important problem for them, and start from this problem. As a result of the activities of the Prosecutor's Office, together with the partner executive services, including the Ministry of Interior in particular, 307 specialized police operations were conducted in the territory of 441 settlements in 27 districts. 497 crimes have been solved, 941 persons detained, over 500 pre-trial proceedings have been initiated. The figures that I think are important and I will emphasise that on a 5-month basis there is a decrease in the thefts by 22%, in the robberies by 19%, in terms of the hijackings of motor vehicles by more than 13%. I would like to draw your attention to the problem again, because although in Bulgaria the news is only the bad news and there are good ones, and they should be repeated. For many years, a serious problem for all adults, mostly over 81 years, has been the victims of the so-called... Over 70% have suffered over 80 years of so-called phone fraud. The fact is that thanks to the actions of the prosecution, together with the Ministry of Interior, there is, of course, a drastic decline which is not noticed in any previous period and which can be proud of any law enforcement system in any country of the European Union. In the first five months alone, they decreased by 90.7% compared to 2019, by 91.6% compared to 2018 and by 94.1% compared to 2017. Again, this is a reason for the pride of every law enforcement system. And here I'm not just saying the prosecution, it's a job and result due to the collective work of various services, with good interaction within their functional competence, as I outlined just now. We have done much, together with various control bodies, including the Ministry of Interior, to solve the problem of burning hazardous waste, and to a large extent, without mentioning the specific thermal power plants in which this was carried out, this problem is currently solved. Given the particular importance of the environmental pollution problem at the TPP, for example, I will quote "Bobov dol" and the possible adverse consequences for the life and health of residents in the area, the Supreme Administrative Prosecutor's Office entrusted the Minister of Environment with personal checking of waste burning plants at TPP. As a result of the actions of the VAP, the Director of RIEW Pernik imposed a forced administrative measure to stop the consumption and burning of waste in existing combustion plants in the TPP. This problem was clear to the whole society, including journalists' investigations from media outside Bulgaria, within the European Union. In order to increase the effectiveness of countering the crimes with the subject of drug substances, by my command, the administrative heads of prosecutors have been ordered to set up systematic investigation organizations for the investigation of crimes with the object of narcotic substances, especially in the areas of educational institutions. As a result, more than 8623 inspections were carried out, except yesterday, which was complete for the city of Sofia, on the territory of the whole of Sofia, and more than 3000 pre-trial proceedings were initiated. Yesterday I pointed out, and again I will point out that more than 5000 school districts have been verified, and over 3758 pre-trial proceedings have been initiated for the period. 674 kilos of marijuana, 6,000 kilos of cannabis, over 6 kilos of heroin, 19 kilos of amphetamine in various cuts, I can continue, including, reaching a different designer drug. I had the honour to say to your colleagues at the Legal Commission yesterday that although these are small quantities, these are so-called working quantities which are probably intended for the Bulgarian children and would be sold to students near the places where these persons are detained, i.e. schools and different educational institutions. I will also draw attention to the following problem: Over the years, there has been a sustained increase in driving of motor vehicles after use of drugs and alcohol, and only for the period 2015 - 2019 - the number of pre-trial proceedings has increased from 90 to 3000, and in cases where there have been accidents after use of drugs and alcohol, the figure is about 10 thousand only for 2017. This means only one. No one is insured to happen what happened to journalist Milen Tsvetkov, I said yesterday before your colleagues, and I will repeat it again, including with the lady in Samokov, a case which I assume you are familiar with, and other cases when they post Bulgarian citizens as a result of the fact that an undisputed war on the Bulgarian roads is being waged. The only solution to this problem is legislative changes and I have had the honour to refer, to say it in this way, to present to your attention expert proposals, given the noted alarming growth of these crimes, an expert proposal to amend and supplement the Criminal Code in its part of transport crimes. Yesterday, October 13, 2020, we submitted an expert proposal for amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure, which was prepared after my order formed a working group of prosecutors from the VKP and distinguished lecturers in the field of criminal trial, including after a prepared criminal legal analysis of the current Bulgarian legislation and relevant one in the Federal Republic of Germany, Italy and France. The brief summary of this proposal I pointed out to a part of you yesterday in the Legal Commission, and this is the strong formalism of evidence law. I won't go into details. I can point out that the outdated Criminal Code of 1968, governing public relations that no longer exist, and non-altering up-to-date public relations, existing, emerging, including the formalistic criminal process that is not in any country of the European Union, is one of the main reasons why we should say that there are not enough results requested by the Bulgarian citizens, and I hope, by each of us. The solution to these problems can only be made after legislative changes, with the prosecution ready to participate expertly in such discussions. And this is the real situation and the real problems that hinder the fight against crime, to be honest with some of the real problems, and not some others, which are rather propaganda and political, such as some theoretical changes in certain figures or in constitutional regulations. I will say briefly yesterday, I pointed out to your colleagues, and now I say to you, we have prepared a very detailed report to the LIBE Commission in the European Parliament. Communication with the European Parliament takes place through the Ministry, where the diplomatic protocol is, through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and our permanent representation. Our report is extremely detailed, albeit in English, but I think that everyone who wishes can get acquainted with the answers of the questions raised to the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office. Some of these answers were prepared in accordance with the Bulgarian legislation after permission by specific monitoring prosecutors under art. 198 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. I just want to mark a few things, like you're free and you can, I'm sure, get acquainted with this report in full. In this report, we have pointed out numerous cases of investigations and convictions regarding so-called high-level corruption, including many other cases related to organised crime, two issues that are particularly important, I hope to you and to the entire Bulgarian society, and to our European partners. This is the case with the Minister of Environment and Water, this is the case with his Deputy Minister. Consciously, I do not use names, I think it is unnecessary and incorrect in terms of persons for whom no judgment has been enforced at the moment, and I will try not to quote names as far as possible. There is a conviction against the Deputy Minister of Transport, albeit at second instance and non-final; at first instance in relation to the former Minister of Economy and Energy; in relation to the MP; in relation to another MP; an indictment has been filed with regard to the Chairman of the State Agency of Bulgarians abroad; they are sentenced to two instances mayor of the region in Sofia Municipality, his deputy and former mayor in this area; an indictment has been filed with regard to the Deputy Mayor of Sofia Municipality; investigations have been conducted for numerous corruption crimes concerning mayors of municipalities and districts. You can see this on page 17 of my quoted response to the LIBE Commission. I will not quote specific areas and municipalities, I will just say that a question has been asked by the LIBE Commission whether the opposition or the government has been investigated more. Such statistics, as I said, we do not lead and we have responded to the LIBE Commission in this way. But to be correct, we did this analysis. Turns out the majority of the investigations are against representatives of the largest party in the ruling coalition. Yesterday I explained this is logical, a large part of the local government is dominated by representatives of this party and this is purely mathematically easy to explain. Next, I would like to point out that numerous investigations are being conducted against various civil servants of the Customs Agency, the Ministry of Interior and the Executive Agency of Automobile Administration. I indicated yesterday that they were sentenced with a final entry into force of a law 25 persons, with the damage to the budget of Bulgaria and other countries in the European Union being 8 million. lv. Unfinished in court are numerous pending pre-trial proceedings for tax crimes. A few days ago, one of the first detained organized criminal groups dealing with phone fraud was convicted, with initial investigations carried out only August of last year. In other words, the entire phase of pre-trial and judicial proceedings took place within a little over a year. In addition to being convicted, the damage to the victims of Bulgarian citizens was restored, i.e. they were compensated for the crimes committed against them. As you know, unprecedented pre-trial proceedings have been initiated and he has been held under guard by the highest police officer, to call him in this way responsible for countering drug trafficking across the country. Accordingly, the investigation has been carried out and charges have been brought against officials in the presidency, against persons with serious financial opportunities that you know. Some of them are facing the Bulgarian court. [[Heckling]] I think it is unnecessary to mention the names to all of you they are clear. For the first time since 1989, numerous pre-trial espionage proceedings have been formed, undermining the prestige and national security of the Republic of Bulgaria, which are also known to you. It was ordered, albeit at first instance, a conviction after an indictment by the Prosecutor's Office for the terrorist act in Sarafovo, with civil claims of more than 122 million being granted. lv. and the most severe convictions, which are provided for in the Bulgarian Penal Code, were placed. I will only mark, without quoting the last two cases of exposed illegal tobacco factories, the damage of which can hardly be appreciated is only those whom I had the honour to present in another parliamentary Commission more than a year ago, without setting them one by one, the estimated damage to the fissure, that is, the damage to every Bulgarian citizen was and was about 700 million. lv. I will point to another figure that can be proud of any Bulgarian law enforcement system and state, and I will say it responsibly. We are frozen to use the European term.............................................................................................. lv. After notification by the Prosecutor's Office to KPCONPI, including under art. 72 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. That's over a billion and 500 million. Euros. These are the cases before the two iconic.. to call them this way, cases of one person hiding in Dubai, and another case, which I intend to deal with later. In these cases, on one of which are seized numerous items with scars of cultural and historical values, only the legally owned ones are estimated at about 1 billion. Euros. If they are appreciated, I will point out in a moment the exact figure of all the established.. it is just below 7 thousand, it is a huge value. These are things that have been excavated, archaeological objects, most likely with scars of cultural and historical values, excavated by the Bulgarian land and property of every Bulgarian citizen. I hope that at some point after a criminal trial, they will be able to be seen by any Bulgarian citizen whose property they really are in my opinion. Since we are repeatedly dealing with corruption, I said yesterday and I would repeat: if someone claims that there is no fight against corruption in Bulgaria on high levels and that there is no fight against organised crime, I would be very happy to acknowledge his thesis if he showed me another case and another period in Bulgarian history after 1989 with better results, a small part of which I have outlined at the moment. Then I'd agree with him. I'll say one more thing. It is good to read European reports. This is very important because it is an orientation if we are talking about the new rule of law mechanism, about what we need to change and what direction to work in. I am not saying that the prosecution is infallible, but I am saying that the prosecution is not responsible for all the problems in this country. I hope that your interest in the prosecution in my face at the moment is similar to other structures of the law enforcement system in the same way in the extrajudicial authority. Because, as I said, the results are achieved by working together, the final result depends on different structures and not on the work of a single structure and in particular the prosecution. There's a lot to talk about, but I don't want to bore you. It's about corruption. To objectively read the Report, it is also nice to read the data mentioned in it. I believe that on page 13 of the General Report on the rule of law in the countries of the European Union are data from a Eurobarometer survey of June 2020 on corruption in the European Union, not in Bulgaria. The latest Eurobarometer data shows that corruption continues to be an up-to-date problem for European citizens and businesses. More than seven in 10 Europeans -- 71% -- believe corruption is widespread in their country. More than four out of 10 Europeans, 42% believe that the level of corruption has risen in their country. I think we make up 70% of the European Union to meet these criteria because seven out of 10 say corruption is widespread in their countries. At the same time, only 34% of all asked are of the opinion that their government is applying effective methods to fight corruption. In addition, six out of 10 Europeans - 63% - believe that the problem of corruption has serious manifestations in their country and the majority of companies -- 51% -- are questioning that corruption offenders could be captured or handed over to law enforcement and prosecutors. In order not to bore you, I can give you breakdowns in individual countries. If you get acquainted with the entire study, I am interested and I have met you, you will see that many of the indicators we are in the middle and not as a leading country on levels of corruption in the European Union. I say again, we're around the average levels on this research. Those are the facts. It is my job to give you the facts, and your job is, given that it is about different power, to make their political improvisation, interpretation, interpretation or as you think it is right. Because yesterday it came up and I had the understanding that the interest was dictated by the fact that they should be presented in accordance with Constitutional Decision No 6 of 6 June 2017, which is clear to every Bulgarian MP, various generalizations, analytical reports of the Prosecutor's Office, i.e. the Summary Analytical Report "that the National Assembly cannot request from the Prosecutor General a report on the activities of the Prosecutor's Office in specific criminal proceedings. I had that impression. I was not prepared on some issues which were in violation of this constitutional decision, yet I tried my best on the basis of the information I had and without violating Article. 198 of the Code of Criminal Procedure to answer these questions within, again, I am telling you, what I could say and am aware of in my professional capacity. From yesterday until today, although according to this constitutional decision, the National Assembly cannot request a report from the Prosecutor General on specific and pre-trial proceedings, I have tried to ask colleagues to give permission in specific pre-trial proceedings on which I was asked. Naturally, in the short time I could not get permission on all of them, but the aim was to show that the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office was not worried about anything. We are aware that we do not have an obligation, but it is a matter of respect to the Bulgarian institutions, to the Bulgarian Constitutional Court to give information on specific criminal proceedings, and that would also violate the sense of justice and the desire of the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office to be accountable and transparent. Our desire of my colleagues is to present the facts as they are, so that everyone can do their own objective analysis, not to hear just one party, as the defendants, lawyers and defendants have spoken so far. Therefore, given the respect I have for the National Assembly, which, as I said, is the higher authority in a parliamentary republic, such as Bulgaria, although we do not have the obligation to comment on specific pre-trial proceedings and there is a specific decision of the Constitutional Court, I have tried and will mark, without boring you, several such proceedings in which I was asked, and I will rather complete my answers because I tried to respond to the basis at which I had yesterday. To date, I'm going to fill you in on something I mentioned regarding a case involving a person who I'm still not going to mention who's hiding in Dubai. I will add to the fact that there are two pending pre-trial proceedings. One of them attracted 11 people with multiple charges. I will not introduce you to the specific texts, they are published in various reports of the Prosecutor's Office. What is important should be mentioned, and I mentioned it just now, is that for 212 subjects, to call them artifacts, there is evidence that they are legally registered. In fact, after the completed search, 6778 were seized, and the defendant, as I said, registered under the Order of the Cultural Heritage Act a collection of only 212 such. In the course of the search it is found that the objects are stored in violation of any rules, including in various, to call them boxes, and other such devices with inscriptions at the places of Bulgaria where they were excavated, i.e. most likely acquired from illegal activity. I would like to add that the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office will do everything possible for these subjects to be subject to judicial and archaeological expertise by the best experts of the European Union, not by Bulgarian experts, and will present to the Bulgarian society their final value, including cultural and historical value. Since yesterday was about publishing the results of using special intelligence tools, I want to clarify here for the Bulgarian citizens and not for you, because those of you who are lawyers know that after using special intelligence means, the relevant evidence is prepared. After their inclusion in pre-trial proceedings, they become part of the evidence. Their distribution takes place with the permission of a specific monitoring prosecutor, in particular pre-trial proceedings and their disclosure is the result of the media policy of a specific prosecutor. In specific BDZs known to the whole society, published by the Special Prosecutor's Office, clear talks of this fugitive are taking place. I only mention them for one purpose to make it clear where some of the attacks come from to the prosecutor's office. I'm saying, one part, probably not a small part of them is fair. In order not to fall into a political element, I would simply point out, so to speak, to call it the proposal that is contained in these physical evidences, which we may see if anyone will adopt in the period to come, and it is by making him a figurehead as the president, exactly what will hurt us Geshev? Interesting times ahead, interesting political processes. I and the prosecution will monitor with interest whether this legislative proposal of the fugitive in Dubai will be developed, submitted, and perhaps even accepted, and which importers will be respectively, to call it that way. I'll continue with the next case. This is a second pre-trial procedure for which I have permission to comment concerning the same person. I would say that it concerns purely criminal activity, the activity of an organized criminal group operating in the territory of Bulgaria, existing from 2012 to 2020, carrying out criminal activity under art. 116, 152 and 143 of the Penal Code. These are murders, attempted rapes, including forced rape. The subject of an investigation into this pre-trial proceedings, so I don't bore you, I'll only mark, are the murders of Jordan Dinov, Manol Velev, attempted murder of Alexei Petrov and one in relation to a person to whomever I tell you the name, it doesn't mean anything to me personally. Indictment has been filed for attempted rape by conducting investigations into several such other cases. I'm moving on to the ones that were specifically mentioned yesterday. Since it was about the Ministry, you asked me a question, I think I don't remember who, perhaps, Mr. Zarkov, about entering the Ministry of Environment and Water and about the investigations there. This investigation is the second, specifically concerning the Deputy Minister of the Ministry of Environment and Water, which concerns an investigation into also eleven persons. Multiple charges have been filed. I will not quote the actions that have been carried out so far. What is more important here is that part of the activity under investigation I called yesterday in the Legal Commission and this is a fact the biggest environmental crime in the history of Bulgaria. I'll tell you why. In Cherven Bryag and the village of Ruptsi were buried in a force excavation pits of 396 tons of hazardous waste. When I say "dangerous waste" without being particularly precise whether I use the correct term, these are such waste products from treating batteries that are high in lead. I explained yesterday, and to each of you it is clear what the influence of lead on the human organism is, how long a bunch of other side actions on Bulgarian citizens are breaking down, and some of these waste are close to settlements and close to water sources. In Lom, 501 tonnes, in Pleven, 9000 tonnes of non-hazardous waste, in Kremikovtsi, 1108 tonnes. Of all the waste found, the dangerous ones are 7756 tons of hazardous waste. I repeat: 7756 tons of hazardous waste that poisons the Bulgarian land, Bulgarian citizens and all who live around the places where they illegally use the term And they are buried for one simple reason that it is much cheaper than to be, to call them the utilised military term, and according to all legal standards and then a serious amount had to be paid for example in the Federal Republic of Germany. It is much easier to bury them in the Bulgarian land and not pay anything. Simple statistics. No expenses, just profit. I'm moving on to two other cases. Because it was about two cases involving the president's secretary and the president's advisor. I have explained in detail to your colleagues how these actions were carried out in the investigation. They were carried out in compliance with the Bulgarian law after the permission of two Bulgarian courts................................................................................................... In the same way, as a number of people who perform them, in which the actions were carried out twice at the Ministry of Environment and Water. In one case concerning the Secretary of Legal Affairs and Anti-Corruption, there is sufficient information that the prosecution publishes. What I can add to is that when searching in parentheses, by the way, the gentleman refuses to hand over the codes to his personal phones, he seems to have forgotten them or had any other concerns, but, how can I say, we work with partner services that have high technological capabilities, so we have no concerns about that. To continue in that direction. I have a willingness to quote what was found in these actions because they asked why we were doing these actions. I can quote a lot of things. I can quote letters from the Chairman of the DAR, I can quote letters from the Director of the Directorate of the Ministry of Interior, I can quote letters from the Office of Military Information. It's very interesting here, I don't know whether to quote witness interrogation protocols in pre-trial proceedings, I can quote protocols from various district courts. And I think I'm gonna stop here without getting into more detail. This is the subject of an investigation by a specific monitoring prosecutor and a specific team of investigators and prosecutors, in the case of the Special Prosecutor's Office. Because it came up: why have we searched, say, certain premises? Yesterday, I detailed the procedure. It is written in the Bulgarian law and should be respected in any case in the same way, because we do not allow double standards. I'm going to explain to you a simple reason for the second case concerning a presidential advisor. It makes sense when the first three interrogations first you say you don't remember how certain DAR Griff documents got into you, then you say someone assigned you to take them and hand them over to him, and then you submit these documents to a judge in the fourth interrogation, and you tell them you found them in your cash register. It's a process that develops after three weeks, it's logical to go and see what's still in this case. I think so, don't you? This is not a process for tomorrow, but it is a process that is developing, I said, four interviews within approximately, I don't know if I'm precise, three weeks old. Also, what I can say and what I have been given permission to do, I will quote that, in the case of the searches carried out with another person, because there have been numerous charges in this case, not only to this person, but also to various persons, including former employees of the State Intelligence Agency, in one person who is former Head of the Staff of the Ministry of Interior, the search of this person was carried out on 9.07.2020, a former employee of the Office of the Ministry of Interior, writes, and SANS, five boxes of documents were found in his home, originals and copies with a Griff on ZKI. Five boxes! A large part of them have expired and this griff has been removed, but no small part of these secret documents are in due time. These classified documents are at least according to what I have permission to say and is written to me by the monitoring prosecutor, the documents with the most recent classification marks are from 2013. Up until now, what I have been informed by the monitoring prosecutors, these documents contain information about almost all prominent politicians after 1989, almost all criminal authorities will call them this way, after 1989, almost all businessmen after 1989, including many original documents concerning magistrates. I was obliged to say this in order to inform you and the Bulgarian society why and what the prosecution does, and whether someone is guilty or not, will decide only and only the Bulgarian court when a person is standing, and if he is standing before the Bulgarian court. And since there was a propaganda thesis during the time that almost these actions were carried out, I was asked by your colleagues yesterday why Minister Neno Dimov was arrested, Mr. Neno Dimov, I will explain to you, too, was not arrested, but was invited to go with the monitoring prosecutor to his home, where he continued searching his home after his office was searched. That's the truth. As is true, despite certain political claims that the presidency did not enter heavily armed people, employees and as you wish, judge. I repeat: no heavily armed people have entered. I cannot prohibit every particular political improvisation, but let us show respect to the Bulgarian institutions, and the prosecution is one of the institutions in this country, part of the judiciary and we respect all the other institutions of the Bulgarian state, because this is our understanding of statehood. I'm moving on. Yesterday it was about one pre-trial procedure and two checks concerning the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria. I explained yesterday, I'll explain today. The first is an inspection concerning, let's say, property ownership outside Bulgaria in a country of the European Union. Detailed reference to this case.. Since we have been requested information, it is available on the Commission's LIBE website. What I can say schematically about this case, in order not to bore you, is this: the Prime Minister has been questioned, rather he has been taken away with explanations on this inspection. This became public knowledge because he, I think, gave an interview to a lot of media. As I said yesterday in front of the Legal Committee, I don't know why after three months this became news again that he had taken an explanation, it seems to be forgotten, two months is a long period. What I can say is that I have complete reference to the actions carried out. The signal, at least the last signal, is from Citizen's Movement Bulgaria, united for one purpose................................................................................................ is not known to all of you................................................................................................................................................ It is subject to scrutiny by a particular monitoring prosecutor. We're moving on. Various media publications have been included, numerous explanations have been taken, numerous references have been requested, I will not be able to read them if you wish, one by one. There is active communication with relevant partner services through the DAMOS Ministry of Interior from the Kingdom of Spain. The result is, without describing the correspondence, and I have such an opportunity that after making contact with a monitoring prosecutor, as was the requirement of the Spanish authorities, so far, I think that there is no feedback for several months, which is not such a significant problem for closing the file. What is to come, apart from a number of other persons to be heard, is the completion of assigned revisions to various companies that are related to this case. I'm done with this case. I move on to another case, which I was asked about yesterday concerning audio and video materials or photos concerning the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria again. This is about a pre-trial procedure concerning photos and an audio recordings, rather an inspection. The pre-trial proceedings are in the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office and the inspection is in the Special Prosecutor's Office. The inspection, which is in the Special Prosecutor's Office, is initiated on an alert concerning certain audio recordings by the former minister in a former government of the current prime minister, Mr. Hristo Ivanov. It is entrusted to the SDVR to carry out technical expertise. I can still read the many actions that have been carried out, including an explanation by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Borisov. We're moving on to the next case I was asked about yesterday. It is about the popular ones, as the question was asked, photos distributed in different media. This is pre-trial proceedings, being investigated by the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office. I will not quote, on an alert from multiple individuals, including various sites and individuals who apply various materials from different sites, including.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I don't think I'm gonna stop at exactly how this pretrial procedure started. What I can say is that until now he has been questioned as a witness also Prime Minister Borisov, a number of persons have been questioned, requested information, interviewed and the former Director of the National Security Service, requested numerous information from the National Security Service, established and interviewed numerous people who have had access in this way to a residence which, there is no point in explaining, is state property. In addition, expertise on the authenticity and authenticity of these photographs has been given, which has not been produced so far. I think that the issue of so-called police violence, hooligan acts concerning the protests in recent months, we have exhausted them on a matter, I think of Mr. Bozhankov, in detail. I've pointed out the statistic he wants to see about the number of pre-trial proceedings. I will end up with two things that I would like to say, although I have no relation to the Ministry of Interior, except that we work together within our professional competence. I will repeat it because it is true and this truth must be heard by Bulgarian citizens. The Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office will investigate anyone who has broken the law, whether he is a policeman or a protester, whether he is socially weak or a billionaire, whether he is a minister or a small-time clerk in the presidency. And we don't make a difference and we don't have double standards. However, as far as the Ministry of Interior is concerned, it must be clearly said that we are carrying out checks on cases where there are signals that it has been carried out, to call it police violence in general, but more than 50 pre-trial proceedings for hooligan acts, causing minor bodily damage on hooligan motives to officials of the Ministry of Interior and other crimes, including a convicted person. And it should also be made clear to the Bulgarian citizens that in no country in the European Union no police will stand to be beaten as much as it happened to the Bulgarian police on September 2nd, and that is a fact. I said that to your colleagues, I would like to repeat it, because this is a reason for pride for every representative of the Bulgarian state, and I hope for every Bulgarian citizen as well. Because these people protected other Bulgarian citizens, including those involved in the protest, not to suffer, including state institutions. And I told your colleagues, and I'll tell you: it's enough to see the video exchange, how the French police proceed, for example, or the German police, in identical cases. I'm not gonna stop at American, because that's another legal system. And I'm gonna end it so I don't bore you with the information I'm giving you with a few sentences to conclude. I have stated to your colleagues, I also say to you: the Bulgarian Prosecutor General, even less the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office, will not allow them to be involved in the clearly evolving political election campaign. And we will continue to work without making a difference by the criteria that I have just outlined. And the other thing I'm going to ask you: we don't have a field of contact with you, we work on the side of gathering evidence, we press charges, you're in the field of politics, you're entitled to any political comments, that's your right. My request is to show respect to the Bulgarian institutions and the Bulgarian state. I said that a man and a country that doesn't respect themselves doesn't respect others. Unfortunately, we often show that we do not respect ourselves and our own country. And I will end up with Bulgaria being there before us, and there will be Bulgaria after us. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u312	Thank you, dear Mr. Geshev. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Procedure? Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u313	Honourable Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Honourable Mr. Prosecutor General! Mrs. Karayancheva, my procedure is with you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u314	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u315	Yes, please order an inspection. On entering the hall, in the lobby of the hall, which is with Chippy Access, i.e. limited, five or six people are being observed, now there are two of them, wearing masks that are armed. I ask you to make sure that this is the case, how it happened and on what grounds at the entrance of the National Assembly, there are armed people in the Chamber of Deputies!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u316	Mr. Malinov, I'll do a background check. I think I know who these people are, and you know it, but you're asking one question as a mystery. I'll let you know. I'll check it out. I'm opening the debate, colleagues. Mrs. Ninova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u317	Honourable Members of the House, Mr. Attorney General! Of course, everyone has a right to their opinion, to their opinion, but I think that everything we do here, and what we are going to talk about in the next few minutes, is politics. We cannot escape this because when we talk about the rule of law, about the separation of authorities, about combating corruption, both your significant role in this process and our as MPs, is clearly outlined, but everything is politics. You yourself have made political statements, including today's speech, ended in political words. Allow me, before I speak specifically on the Report, to draw something in front of the brackets, a fact which you have long known, but also to say it in the Chamber of the National Assembly. We demand your resignation and will not support the report. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u318	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u319	Why won't we support him? Because it is a lot of statistics without specific answers to important questions for the public interest that you have tried to give in part today. Of course, rich statistics deserve respect, because behind it is the work of many people, of many prosecutors, so let us accept our respect for what they have done, but let us look beyond statistics. This report does not provide answers to important questions that have excited society in recent months, perhaps even a year. The second reason why we will not support it is that for some important for every Bulgarian.. from the child to the oldest person questions, the report gives strange answers. I'm gonna go with that, too. The third, which we will not support, we have a contradiction and it is extremely essential, it is for the place and role of the prosecution and control over the figure of the Attorney General, whoever he is. And I think I'll start with that. Dear Mr. Geshev, today you are the Attorney General, in time it may be another. But the question is principled: for the mutual control of the authorities, for the lack of control of the Attorney General as a figure, I say whoever he is. We from BSP for Bulgaria have proposed our solution to this issue. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the purchase, hire, maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance, repair and maintenance of equipment and equipment for the maintenance, repair and maintenance of equipment and equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance, repair and maintenance of equipment and equipment for the maintenance, repair and maintenance of equipment and equipment for the maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance, repair, maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance, repair, maintenance and maintenance of equipment for the maintenance, repair, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance and repair, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance In the report presented by the Prosecutor General to us today, he explicitly stated his opinion on this issue and it is negative. He rejects the possibility of judicial review of prosecutors' refusal to initiate pre-trial proceedings, and something very important is rejecting it for general reasons. If I may, Mr. Geshev, my first question to you is: what are these principle considerations not to accept that the court may exercise control over these acts of the prosecution, which so far are out of control? Don't you think this is one way to respond to expectations, to respond to the discussion, to solve the problem of still keeping the prosecution under control? We think the fairest is judicial review. Secondly, I said that the report is statistics, which also does not answer specific questions that excite society. Today, Mr. Attorney General tried to give answers, but it seemed insufficiently satisfactory. We understand that you should ask the investigative prosecutors what information to give publicly, but didn't you manage to ask these prosecutors are the experts on the tapes, the photos, the cash drawer you announced months ago that you were doing? How long does it take to respond to the Bulgarian society are the photos from the Prime Minister's bedroom authentic, is the money authentic in the drawer, is the voice authentic in those records in which Of course, Yours is the role of the prosecution to say if there are any, but allow me to assume that there are some. When do you think these expertises will be pronounced, or are they not these recordings and photos? [[(Reply from GERB: He cannot say. And you're a lawyer, you know.]] You have not answered, for example, a question that we discussed in committee yesterday: what is going on with the investigation of Mr. Goranov? Maybe later the investigative prosecutors will let you answer that question as well. However, I would specifically like to ask something on behalf of the BSP about Bulgaria and as whistleblowers and whistleblowers, I think you can give us information on several topics. Since 2017 in this term of parliament we have released 15 signals to the Prosecutor General with facts and data that we have indicated for corruption on the high levels of power. Well, to this day, for three years, we have no information on what's going on on these signals. For example, according to the signal for construction of the fence, on the border between Bulgaria and Turkey. We do not have an answer to our question: who are those politicians who personally you said in a statement that there are politicians who have received illegal payments from KTB? We don't know who they are until today. Or: what happened to the BASIS system of the Customs Agency, where we had strong reasons to alert you to a deliberate breakthrough? "Haskovo Gate" - over 30 companies in some public procurements for more than 50 million. lv. What about the CEZ deal and the investigation there? Even though she's changed. In the course of its implementation there were interesting data about the work of the Prosecutor's Office. The plague of animals. We've signaled you several times. The court has already ruled on one case of one of the victims that there was no plague. When will someone take responsibility for what they've done to all of Strandja? This signal has been going on since 2018, for two years now! What about the concession at Sofia airport? The coal concession in Pernishko? The public contract for construction works in Serdika? And the opinion expressed publicly by the Director of the National Health Insurance Fund that a medicine for private hospitals is paid at seven times the price than the same at a state or municipal hospital? I quote only part of the signals that we have sent you in three years. I will provide you with this list of signals, and I think that, indeed, as people who have submitted them, we have information....................................................................................................................................... Because it concerns representatives of the government of Borisov and us as opposition that we are interested in. The next reason why we will not support the report, and I said that there are answers to questions that concern from the little child to the elderly person, which are a little embarrassing. It is a question, honourable colleagues and esteemed Mr Prosecutor General, of a very important topic the clean water, air and land of Bulgaria! We politically argue that the governments of Borisov have turned Bulgaria into the dump of Europe and the junk from third countries outside the European Union. I congratulate you on what you have quoted about this case on which you have launched a waste investigation. But in your report you say that you found 1426 illegal dumps in Bulgaria. The D.A.'s office! I say this about the MPs from GERB, who when they hear us say it, jump and say that we are lying that we are looking for some excuse. The DA's office is 1426 illegal dumps and 4440 dirt! Honourable Mr. Prosecutor General, in Chapter "Exemplaries of checks carried out on the supervision of legality" for the period for which you report the activities of the Prosecutor's Office, there are these data that I call disturbing. Almost in all cases I should not quote and list them now, and at TPP. Bobov dol. and the water and pollution check of Yugovska and Chepelarska, and with regard to expired expiration date for plant protection products.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... monthly for detected violations under the Environmental and Water Act with dangerous consequences for people's lives. I will not read all of them, but my question is: outside of these checks, with which you have found the extremely alarming condition for the quality of water, air, land and Bulgarian nature, did you not find any reason that there is a crime and that someone has committed such a crime and to press charges or at least start an investigation? It is clear that with administrative violations and penalties it is easy to assign to the Ministry of Environment and Water, punish them at BGN 442. and they're going back to the way they were. How many of these 1426 illegal dumps are subject to your investigation as crimes committed by someone? Because the Italian party ruled that with regard to the imports of junk, it is from there, on the other side, it is about the Italian mafia. Is there such a mafia in Bulgaria? Will the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office name it at some point, or will it only be satisfied with findings on the supervision of legality? Finally, I would like to say: do not look at what we are doing, political positions in an election campaign. For four years we have been alerting you to any cases of high-level corruption in Borisov's government and when there were elections and when there were no elections. Do not blame us, MPs and politicians, especially the opposition, that when we do our job to control the executive power, we do it on political grounds or for election slogans. Back! It doesn't matter whether you're a governor or an opposition if you're a statesman who insists on the rule of law, separation of authorities, the rule of law, mutual control of authorities. And going beyond these, the state issues, the great challenge for all of us - both politicians and lawyers and rulers - is to respond to the growing feeling of the majority of people in Bulgaria that there is no justice, that the rich, that politicians justice does not catch them. This is the challenge for all of us, and let us, as we are at the level at which each of us stand, face it and resolve it, and not you accusing us of using the pre-election situation, feel dissatisfied with the fact that the prosecution has not done its job on the signals submitted by the opposition. Because in the end the assessment is one for all of us, it is written in the European documents for Bulgaria, and the assessment for all of us here, inside, gives it to the Bulgarian people and I think that it is not satisfied with the level at which justice is situated in Bulgaria and justice. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u320	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u321	Honourable President, honourable Members, Honourable Prosecutor General! We at IMRO will support the report, as we believe it has great scope, analytical and systematic. It shows significant successes with domestic, organized and other types of crime. The problem of phone fraud, the problem of importing and burning secondary raw materials is liquidated. IMRO as a patriotic national responsible party has always fought for the inviolability of the Bulgarian nation and territory. Our attention is extremely focused on national security and the fight against separatistism and anti-borrowing theories and practices, as well as on mass and domestic crime. Unfortunately, a few days ago, national traitors, I stress national traitors! In the European Parliament they sold my native to Pirin Macedonia once again and resurrected an anti-Bulgarian illegal organization called OMO Ilinden. In this regard, it is my first question to the Attorney General: will preliminary proceedings be initiated against members of this illegal organisation? Moreover, Bulgarian security services have established data on their anti-State activities and illegal funding. The second question: will you form as the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria measures for the drained money on the so-called Gypsy integration and find out where the money is? Question three: will you conduct prosecutorial checks to establish questionable funding for non-governmental organisations? And the fourth, final question: what legislative amendments do you think will increase the efficiency and effectiveness of criminal proceedings? We hope that the next report of the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria will be even better and containing answers to these questions. I wish you success and strength you will need in the fight against crime! Long live Bulgaria! [[Single applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u322	Thank you, Mr. Bojinov. - What's the line? I won't. The speeches continue. Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u323	Honourable Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Honourable Mr. Prosecutor General! Here, however, is Mr. Bojinov's map. I thought well that his folder didn't steal, that then I don't know what would have happened! [[(Laughter from the BSP for Bulgaria.) Awesome.)]] Mr. Prosecutor General, I am beginning my speech by saying that I am one of the people who are absolutely convinced that the rule of law is key to the welfare of every citizen of Bulgaria and, in fact, it is the primary duty of politicians and judicial authorities to ensure this. There's nothing more important to do than this one. Therefore, I support absolutely every effort aimed at establishing order in the country, and in a real, adequate order. From this point of view, the report that you have given us, which I have read carefully and with interest, actually says that you have done more work than the previous one, because the indicators are slightly growing up in most of the things that you describe, which implies a better fight against crime as a whole. In this regard, I say again that I am one of the people I am always about when it can be reported that this process is progressing. However, we are the National Assembly, and on the logic of the interaction between the authorities there are different functions that different authorities perform. Our function of the National Assembly is political. And as a major institutional body in the country, in a parliamentary republic, we should be dealing with the processes and what is really happening and is going where it should be going. This is the work of the National Assembly. In this context, I would like to say to you that I wrote down from your speech that you have a full reference for Barcelona, so you said, and I am telling you my problem. You have full reference, but I do not have any results, not just me, but no Bulgarian citizen and this is a problem. It is a problem when 6 months, or how much, or more about this problem everyone is writing and talking about it, it clearly concerns suspicions of corruption at the highest levels of power, namely with the Prime Minister, there are a bunch of names involved in it, weddings, divorces and all kinds of monkey business in the public domain, but you have a full reference for six months, but you do not have a result. The fact that you do not have a result is a prosecutor's problem, but for us citizens is a problem of the way we live and the way we continue it. How many months does it take for the prosecution to tell us if the records with Boyko Borisov are real? You even questioned Boyko Borisov!? I don't know how you questioned him, I'm sure Boyko Borisov couldn't help but know who was recording him. You don't know if you're sure. I don't know who questioned him or how, but the one who yelled after you questioned Borisov and Borisov knows who recorded him, because he knows who recorded him and who shot him naked in the bedroom. And there's NSO, there's a bunch of other services standing there, you can't find out for months who was recording the Prime Minister, and it's about an obvious threat against the Prime Minister of the Republic. So at least a few laws have been broken. This is about a crime at the moment the Prime Minister is recorded, whether it's about audio recordings or about photos naked in bed. Any of these things, how many months do you need to tell me if they're true and who made them? And if at this rate you're pursuing car theft, kill me, I don't know how you reduced the number of thefts!? I think Kovid might have reduced them more. But you can't investigate me for five or six months how they come out or what recordings are made and not have answers and say, "But we're doing a job! " - I don't know how your job is. In my opinion, in terms of the political situation that we are in, you are not doing a job, and by the way, by the same logic people outside are shouting: "Omission!" I think, for example, all the time in this regard, look, you have brought the situation to interinstitutional clashes. Now, just now, Mrs. Karayancheva on top says that she was not authentic, was not authentically confirmed until today Boyko Borisov's recording. And now she's sitting here making excuses for herself, without being able to say now if he called it something or didn't call it something. I apologize, but when someone is listening to the Prime Minister when the Prime Minister gives the President of the National Assembly a definition of this type, it is a matter of functioning of the institutions. This is a question because, if he has said it, it is a question of where parliament stands in the parliamentary state, where is the confidence of the President of Parliament, where is he standing respectively. Can there be control over the executive, which is basically the obligation of the legislative? All this goes wrong and you tell me the fifth month after the whole thing that after all you don't know! You've conducted interrogations and you're conducting some kind of operational investigation. Frankly, at Bozhkov you looked faster, and not to mention the Bobokov brothers, where it suddenly turned out that the Bobokov brothers' records, as I recall, came out and their chats. They didn't just come out before there was a court order, which is not today, but before an accusation is filed! There's no charge yet, and the evidence section of the prosecution is already running in the media, released by the prosecution itself, and that's why you're telling me there's no problem. Okay, people, how can there be no problem, like the Constitution expressly defends freedom, and defends the right to privacy, and as this is an obvious violation? I have no idea exactly how you think you're going to bend the laws with this, but there is a solid logic here that every citizen sees and everyone who sees it goes out into the square and says: This is the mechanism on which citizens are currently out there, this is a bunch of unfinished business, which actually every next day by not doing them, every next day motivates people from the outside. Whether they will break you down, whether they will break down the government of GERB now: I don't know! "But the anger against all politicians against the whole system remains and this result is from unfinished business. At least this is my political reading of what I see. And now one last thing. I saw that Tsatsarov made statements in 2014 as Prosecutor General then that in the cases of KTB there, first, even in the investigation are some initials DS, DS1 and so on, Tsatsarov said that the former head of the DANS is present MP and so on, in fact there is and is mentioned as something involved there. So, at that time, in 2014, by the way, against the DP and DP1 in these CCB cases, there are some pretty large amounts, quite serious amounts, we don't know what they are, and you don't know. You were then, as I recall, a monitoring prosecutor, now you're in charge. No one knows if DS or DS1 is Delyan Peevski, it's time to find out. But the fact is that there were serious sums against these two concepts, and by the way, Delyan Peevski's declaration was not before the CONPI, but was before the Court of Auditors, then pointing zero, pointing nothing. He didn't have anything back then. In 2016, this zero increased sharply. In about a year and a half zero, zero ownership and absolutely no possessions and nothing by hand, including companies and so on, suddenly turned into properties that are currently accounted for several years already, with several million dividends per year. I daren't guess exactly what the volumes are to bring in a few million dividends a year. Well, since the Prosecution in 2014 dealt with DP1 and DS1 and it didn't get anywhere, after the Attorney General in 2014 found that there were some movements involved with Delyan Peevski, and Delyan Peevski suddenly became rich afterwards, shouldn't the Prosecutor's Office be seizing himself again? I think it's obviously mandatory. And until you do that, there's still a lot of things here, and I don't want to talk about it at all, because it's all about them anyway, but until we take these steps until we get to the end of the road, there's no way you can convince us that you're fighting crime. You're fighting some crime. However, I would like to emphasise deeply that selective or late justice and justice is a denial of justice. That's when... Could you extend the group's time, please? I apologize! ...we do this when we're late, we actually twist everything. And this is the failure I want your resignation for! Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u324	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. - What's the line? We continue with the speeches. Mrs. Alexandrova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u325	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the House, Mr. Attorney General! The purpose and purpose of this report is to show objective facts. The report also analysed the results of cases of particular public interest concerning corruption and organised crime, crimes related to the financial interests of the European Union, human trafficking, tax and financial crime, drug trafficking. It also lists the opinions on bills submitted by the Prosecutor General and his request to the Constitutional Court for interpretation under art. 103 of the President's Immunity Constitution. The report also sets out numerous checks carried out by the Supreme Administrative Prosecutor's Office since the beginning of 2020. Among them are: compliance with measures against the coronavirus; the sale of medicinal products at prices other than those formed under the Law on Medicinal Products and Human Medicine, as well as the offer for sale of medicinal products through the conclusion of distance sales contracts. The checks of the Supreme Administrative Prosecutor's Office for Illegal Waste, Unregulated Incineration of TPPs, Brickel, Sliven and others are also indicated; checks of permits of cross-border transport of waste for the storage of different plant protection preparations, for illegal landfills. Checks on the water network, illegal construction, fuel prices, antiques on the fugitive in Dubai are also noted. For the first eight months of this year, the prosecution has observed 177 275 pre-trial proceedings; 91 335 are resolved; the indictments submitted to the court are 9991; the agreements are 5849; the suspended cases are 45 282 and the suspended cases are 25 232. I take this opportunity to point out that we should be as objective as possible, to concentrate on the factual data presented in the Report in order to support the judiciary and to work to restore trust in justice. I would like to assure all representatives of the judiciary, non-governmental organisations, all journalists, all citizens and all MPs that the Committee on Legal Affairs is always open to any legislative initiative of the Prosecutor General, the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation or the President of the Supreme Administrative Court. I have always said that during the debates in the Committee on Legal Affairs, we always listen and take into account the views of the representatives of the judiciary, including the individual magistrates, who have decided to express such opinions or to take part in the debate. In this sense, I think that we should continue this policy of interaction between the legislative and the judiciary by strictly respecting the division of the authorities under art. 8 of the Constitution. No one has claimed that the change in the judicial system has been finalized, that all the details have been ironed out and that this process must end. On the contrary, we accept that this process should be continuous in order to meet the expectations and attitudes of civil society, we are preparing for the next changes in the spatial, material and procedural laws to implement the requirements of the European Commission, and I call again for a better interaction between opposition and government when it comes to the conduct of common and principled policies. In conclusion, I will express my positive attitude to the so presented Report on the activities of the Prosecutor's Office on the implementation of the law in January, August 2020, in accordance with the decision of the National Assembly of 23 July 2020, and I would like to call on all my fellow Members to support its adoption in plenary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u326	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. - What's the line? You have the floor, Mr. Baychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u327	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Alexandrova, Mr. Attorney General! Mrs. Alexandrova, let me disagree with you. Since you were specific, I will also make a reply to you, namely in Chapter Six, in which you have listed in detail pre-trial proceedings, I believe that the calculations have been made, I would say, incorrectly. Here are also the proposals under art. 78a of the Penal Code, and as the Attorney General said yesterday, the prosecution is seeking criminal liability. This is about persons who are exempt from criminal liability. And if we comment in that spirit, then the prosecution could include as statistics and refusals to initiate criminal proceedings. Then they'll get even higher. That is, if we exclude these proposals, the agreements are already jumping from 31 to 58% here. I will use the line to address the Attorney General to ask: when will the prosecution pull out of the comfort zone and not at all to take advantage of the law and conclude agreements? Because I haven't noticed in my practice, Mr. Attorney General, which has been for 15 years, for example, entering the prosecutor in cases initiated by the victim's grief, these are art. 48, 49 and 51 of the PPC. In other words, the prosecution in some cases took advantage of it, while in other cases the prosecution did not take advantage of its right. In addition, under Chapter 16.3 "Corruption cases with special public interest," I notice that a total of 2282 cases have been observed...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u328	Your time is up, Mr. Baichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u329	Just a moment. ...or 17% of the cases have been dismissed, given that the prosecutor is the master of the investigation. What is responsible for this high percentage and doesn't that lead to an erosion in the prosecution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u330	Thank you. Any other lines? Mrs. Alexandrova's denture? It wasn't you. We continue with the speeches. Mr. Hamid, did you raise your hand or did I think so? No. Mr. Bojankov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u331	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Prosecutor General, during the debates several times you pointed out that you expected to export statistics and perhaps this is where we got away because the reason to request this procedure is public discontent, protests, reports outside Bulgaria, which claim that we have a problem with the rule of law, and point to the state prosecution as one of the units where there are also problems. In our opinion, this is precisely the reason for this report. In the core of your report are the cases that you define as socially significant, give specific examples, but others are missed. Therefore, my colleagues and I have placed them and are not satisfied with the answers. As lawyers we know that a person seeks protection of his violated rights outside Bulgaria when he has walked the entire order and has not found such protection here. I believe that this principle is also relevant to the current situation because the questions we have raised have not been investigated, found no justice, found no solution inside Bulgaria and became a problem in Europe because the problems of our legal system are also problems of Europe. Corruption is what makes people poor, corruption is the biggest problem and corruption finds no adequate response from the government, unfortunately, and from the state prosecution. In one month, most files are finished, but for two more years it is not enough. 700 million of missing taxes came only to engage low-level officials, but did not reach the top of the state. Some records of one defendant are interesting to the prosecution, but the same defendant is not interesting to the prosecution when he talks about his relations with senior politicians of the ruling majority and this is what we call a double standard. The prosecution expects to control the spending of public resources, which is mainly spent through public procurement. This same prosecution raises many questions with its own public procurement and in the Commission we did not understand why and who needs at least 400 horsepower. Your answer is that checks have been carried out and that violations have not been found, but we believe that this is a trend. We raised the question: are investigations conducted by the prosecution regarding the overpowering of the authorities of the Ministry of Interior during the protests? Your response focuses on violations of citizens and protesters, and this is now taking sides in favor of power. Investigators and journalists published information received from us about an international scandal involving a tanker and MEP. Your answer yesterday was a very formal case, referring to a constitutional decision, requesting permission from the monitoring prosecutor. At the same time, we have come to know your answer to the European Commission and we have the impression that you know the case very well. That's what we call "selectivity." In dozens of statistics, the European Parliament and the State Department of the United States, and protests, and opposition, and presidents, and the NGO sector say: Bulgaria is a corrupt state with a systemic problem with the rule of law. The Supreme Council of Law and various professional associations give disturbing signals, and to all this we have received an answer that if they do not like the Attorney General, he is doing his job well and that is, I quote the political games. During the entire hearing we did not hear exactly what was wrong in the state charge......... we are not sinless, there is nothing to improve............................ we do not satisfy us................................... This means that we cannot expect anything else in the future, we cannot expect catharsis and we cannot expect change. Dear colleagues, Mr Prosecutor General, for four hours of debate you have mentioned several times that since 1989 the prosecution has acted unprecedentedly. The only thing that we think is unprecedented is the state accusation in its role as a political player, because in our opinion Bulgaria has never had such a politicized state prosecution. Mr Prosecutor General, neither the opposition nor the European Parliament nor the resolution nor any report has claimed that the prosecution is not actually acting. On the contrary, it acts in many ways too energetic, and the problem is that sometimes it does not work at all. In selectivity, double standards is the problem and this report is another argument in this direction. We therefore believe that the decision remains one, and it is your resignation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u332	- What's the line? I won't. We continue with the speeches. Here you go, Mr. Chenchev. I'm gonna have to ask you to keep an eye on the weather, because it's at the end of the group.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u333	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Attorney General, I will look forward to it as I know that the time of our parliamentary group is coming. I will address you and the audience with something that interested the entire National Assembly. If you remember, we made a Temporary Commission for proving the truth, the facts and circumstances surrounding the suspension of the signal of the program "Programme" of the Bulgarian National Radio. This committee has existed five months since its finalisation and the report that our representatives signed with particular opinion has passed seven months, that is, 12 months. Mr. Prosecutor General, we received your predecessor's assurance, Mr. Tsatsarov, and he promised us phone records, but could you let us know how far this investigation went and who was responsible for stopping the signal? It turns out that the signal was not stopped, and according to the ruling majority, silence was simply broadcast on the air, which is scandalous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u334	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. - What's the line? I won't. We continue with the speeches. Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u335	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Attorney General, ladies Deputy Prosecutors! Today, many calls for resignation have been heard in this Chamber. Some definitely failed after the vote. I believe that the others said minutes ago by colleagues from the BSP parliamentary group will also be infertile, and only for one reason that you, honourable Members, are not choosing the Attorney General. This makes him the Supreme Judicial Council and he confirmed twice his choice, and this choice was legitimized by a decree of the Head of State. With regard to the report yesterday in the Legal Committee, we had the opportunity to discuss it in detail, to ask questions, to hear answers about the work of the Prosecutor's Office, which is part of the independent judiciary and the Constitution, is called to protect the Bulgarian citizens and the Bulgarian state interest. For the rights of Bulgarian citizens and the Bulgarian state interest it is quite logical to look at the statistics, however dry it may appear in the Report. Ms. Anna Alexandrova paid attention to the statistics, Mr. Prosecutor General too. I think that once again it should be heard by the parliamentary tribune and the assessment of the MPs, and it should not be only negative, as colleagues from the parliamentary group of BSP try to present it, but it is like an assessment of the entire Bulgarian people. For the period 1 January " 31 August 2020 the convicted and justified persons with an entry into force of a judicial act are 17, 143, I repeat: with an entry into force of a judicial act, and the justified persons are only 338. What's that say, guys? That the acts which are subject to judicial review of all the institutions under the Bulgarian Constitution and the material and procedural law stand for verification and for legality. In addition, the following indicators provided to us in the Report are in relation to cases of particular public interest. For this period and according to the data on the work of the prosecution in cases of special public interest, and for an eight-month period, the prosecutorial acts submitted to the court constitute 33.5% of the criminal proceedings decided. The convicted persons with the entry into force of a judgment are 2948 and the acquitted persons are 2.4% of them all. In relation to cases against organised crime, 92 prosecutorial acts have been submitted to the court and 372 persons have been handed over to the court. With the entry into force of a lawsuit, 92 persons were convicted and 12 were acquitted. There's also a percentage statistic. In the cases of corruption, which we commented not only in this House, but also through a resolution of the European Parliament, for the eight-month reporting period in the prosecutions in the country, a total of 2282 pre-trial proceedings were observed, 773 pre-trial proceedings were decided, 2200 prosecutorial acts were submitted to the court, and 283 persons were handed over to the court. Of them were convicted or sanctioned 156 and justified 22. This can again show the significant difference between the indictments which the court has ruled to be properly drafted and legal. In the cases of money laundering, 14 prosecutorial acts have been filed in court, sentenced and sanctioned by an entry into force of a judgment of 12 persons, and there is not a single justified person with an entry into force of a judicial act. In cases of abuse of EU funds, 19 prosecutorial acts have been filed, 20 persons convicted for the period of entry into force have been handed over to a court and 27 persons are justified. The following are data on illegal trafficking in human beings, as well as attention has been paid to pre-trial proceedings formed for police violence by police officers of the Ministry of Interior. What is important is likely to say, and yesterday it was said several times on the occasion of this report that it is unprecedented. Yes, the prosecution for the first time drafts such a report, I would call it intermediate, outside the reports it is legally required to submit, but this report has also been prepared after unprecedented pressure.. Unprecedented pressure not only from people and from protests, unprecedented pressure and from representing institutions. Because I don't know in another country, not just in Europe, but in the world at all, the President of the Republic talking about the authority called to protect the public interest by calling them with different epithets. It was unprecedented what happened twice, namely the support of all the heads of appeals and district prosecutors who were witnessed to the Attorney General. I believe that this report is objective, I think that this report shows the will and desire of the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office, not just the Prosecutor General, to deal with all the challenges facing it and will support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u336	Thank you, dear Mrs. Atanasova. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? Mr. Mitev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u337	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the House, Mr. Attorney General! It was said that the report contained statistics. This is quite logical and normal for a report, and each of us can, on the basis of statistics, draw his conclusions and his analysis of the prosecution's activities during this eight-month period for which this report has been presented to us. We certainly cannot fail to note the success of the prosecution in the fight against domestic crime and, accordingly, the increased disclosure of these criminal acts that come into this concept. I and the Committee on Legal Affairs, and here I will say that I nevertheless recommend that in a subsequent report we have more and more detailed information about the activities of the Prosecutor's Office precisely in terms of thefts and robberies, as these are some of the actions that plague most of the Bulgarian citizens. Such information we see in this report regarding so-called crimes of high public interest, but unfortunately, such statistics are missing for thefts and robberies, so that we can have a more complete and better view of the prosecution's activities in the investigation and filing an indictment for these criminal acts. It is also commendable that in the Report and this week the desire of the prosecution to make changes to the criminal trial, the Code of Criminal Procedure, taking into account that our criminal process is quite formal, which in most cases leads not only to slow justice, but also to a reduction of the sense of justice in Bulgarian citizens. But aside from the Code of Criminal Procedure, today the chief prosecutor said that changes need to be made in the Penal Code, which is indeed from 1968. A large part of its plays not only in terms of criminal groups who have lost their meaning because of changed public relations and have dropped in some cases the public danger of acts, but also in the general part of the Code of Penalty should be made. One of the major problems that I have addressed yesterday and I am pleased to find that the Prosecutor General shares such a view is the problem of refusing to initiate criminal proceedings on reports of theft and robbery, when the value of the stolen property is up to a minimum wage for the country. However, a minimum wage for the country is quite a large and serious amount for the low income groups of our fellow citizens, and especially for the elderly. One minimum wage today is BGN 610, from January 1st it is expected to become BGN 650. We cannot in any case determine this as a value with a low public danger or a public danger which is insignificant to investigate the relevant crime. What we are currently seeing, unfortunately, as a practice in some of these prosecution's refusals to initiate pre-trial proceedings, must be changed. And I hope that, as we have been presented with a draft of changes and proposals for changes in the Penal Process, such a project will also be seen with regard to the Penal Code. We of the United Patriarchs are also committed to making our legislative proposals so that this practice, which exists so far, is stopped and thus the sense of justice in Bulgarian citizens is preserved, which unfortunately is currently being violated in these cases. People are under the impression that the state does not support them in any way and that, accordingly, when a crime is committed, no one is investigating him and his perpetrator does not receive his next punishment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u338	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? Mr. Siddy has a statement. Here you go, Mr. Siddy.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u339	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Attorney General, fellow Members! I listened with interest what is happening so far and with two or three words just to say that we will support, of course, this report, because there are enough positive things in it. What I heard in the Chamber, unfortunately, was on matters that are certainly of public interest, such as recording checks, photos and so on. What we are interested in, however, in IMRO, which my colleague Bozhinov said, is what does the prosecution in small towns, what does it do with Gypsy crime, what does it do with the continuing increasingly active imposition of propaganda on various non-governmental organizations, which may in some cases pass the borders. Here, we now have a similar example, which goes in the public domain, and therefore what does the prosecution do with the orderist sentiments regarding OMO.Ilinden, which the left part of the hall, unfortunately, resurrected in the last days? So we wish you strength in the fight in this direction because these are the problems that mostly concern the Bulgarian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u340	Thank you, dear Mr. Siddy. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Mr. Gheshev, please answer the questions. [[(Reply by National Representative Krum Zarkov:]] I closed the debate, Mr. Zarkov. You have one minute. You'll have a negative vote. Okay, Mr. Geshev, I'm sorry, let's give Mr. Zarkov a minute and a half to speak. A minute and 14 seconds, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u341	Excuse me, Madam President. This procedure was first used, and I thought Mr. Attorney General would speak and then we'd have a chance to take... [[Reply from the O.P.: Put your card on!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u342	Here you are, put your card on and you are right, you had the opportunity to offer procedures.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u343	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Geshev, I have one minute to get involved in this matter. There are three questions on which there is no answer and which are actually a result of criticism of the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office by citizens, the European Parliament, international observers and all who are in the legal community. These three criticisms are as follows: the power of the Prosecutor General is very high, it is used selectively, and the figure of the Prosecutor General does not have sufficient control and its acts are not subject to sufficient control. These three problems are also confirmed by the current report. There's a double standard, and my text is better than your text, and that's what we saw very clearly. However, it is a product of partiality - political addiction, bias against some businesses, and the mix between politics and business is called oligarchy. A term the Attorney General repeatedly uses, but somehow oligarchs are good and bad. Speaking of power, Mr. Attorney General has explained to us that his power is not so great yesterday, he will probably repeat it now. [[(Comments from GERB and OP:]] The bad thing is that power is not the power to be condemned, that's what court does.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u344	The weather, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u345	Give me ten seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u346	Ten seconds, yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u347	The great power and the great fear that the Attorney General is giving rise to is not that someone can be convicted because this is what happens in court when someone deserves to be convicted. The great power is that it can unpunishedly destroy... [[(National Representative Krum Zarkov continues to speak with the microphone off. Voices from BSP for Bulgaria, shouts: "Eee!"]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u348	The weather, Mr. Zarkov. Ten seconds. Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. It was ten seconds and I was correct, canceled, made Mr. Gheshev come back. Thank you. To have your group's time adjusted. Here you are, Mr. Geshev, to answer the questions of the MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u349	I'm going to start by saying that it was very difficult for me to process questions from political statements and slogans, so I apologize if I don't answer any questions, maybe I didn't make the right distinction between the two. I will continue with the fact that I was clearly not heard about the constitutional decision which requires respect for the Constitutional Court. And I do not need to explain what function the Constitutional Court performs and what the Constitutional Court has said... what questions can be asked to the Attorney General. I would say that when it comes to rule of law and rule of law, it must be clear that it is a complex of institutions and an interaction between individual authorities. I think I said it in my statement. There is no way to achieve the required and alleged rule of law all the time, whether justified or not, without interaction between the individual authorities and the individual institutions. And hardly only the prosecution is the factor that can solve this painful problem for Bulgaria. Yesterday I had the honor of telling your colleagues that criminal justice is 10%. I repeat: 10%, about 10%, of all justice in the country. If we accept purely theoretically, although I have given you figures here of 94%, 95%, but we accept that the prosecution is responsible for the overall problem of justice in Bulgaria, does this mean that in the other 90% commercial, administrative and all other cases where there is no prosecutor involved, everything is perfect and there are no problems? So I will repeat what I said: I hope that your interest in the rule of law, in criminal justice, will be concentrated on other structures, including the extrajudicial authorities, including the judiciary, on which this rule of law and the rule of law depend. Because justice is not given by the prosecution, justice is given by the court. The prosecutor does not release an early person who killed a Bulgarian youth, the son of a former MP, perhaps, to many of the speakers. I can't comment on that decision. This is a decision of the independent Bulgarian court. So the distinctions that I described must be made very sharply. I'll start with that. The first was Mrs. Ninova. Since we worked in the same service many years ago as investigators and should know the answers to the questions you asked, but it is now in another amplification. It is logical to have political nuances in her questions, although I am sure she is familiar with the answers. So I will try to answer her legally, although it is quite difficult when you ask political questions to be answered legally. I have no right, unlike you, to ask for resignations. I don't think it's right because it violates the principle of separation of powers. In addition to not having the right to be politicians, you have the right to ask for resignations to whomever you choose, and when you decide, I will only say that there are procedures under which it is requested, received and removed from the Prosecutor General, Chairman of the VCC and Chairman of the Supreme Administrative Court. These procedures are regulated in Bulgarian legislation. When we talk about the rule of law, it is nice to read the Bulgarian laws and the Bulgarian Constitution and thus to adhere to them as correctly as possible, including showing respect for the individual authorities, the individual institutions, as I have repeatedly said. Otherwise, we show a low degree of state consciousness. I'll move on to matters. By the way, some of them have repeated many times, so I'm going to take this opportunity to group them. I had the opportunity to explain in detail the myth of the uncontrollable Attorney General. I said it doesn't bother me at all what figures will be accepted, or won't be accepted, to control the Attorney General, to investigate the Attorney General. These are purely your decisions, legislative ones. I do not have any concerns, for the simple reason that I do not intend to commit crimes, and separately I cannot carry them out, given my powers, which I will outline shortly. The possibility that, at the risk of repeating myself to those who were not at the hearing yesterday in the Legal Commission, the Attorney General to commit a crime is similar to that of a member of the parliament to commit a crime on the occasion of his work, I do not exclude the options relating to a crime against the person, and I will explain why. My job is in three directions: Methodical instructions.. something related to the interpretation work of the Supreme Court of Cassation. General instructions to all prosecutors for proper enforcement of the law. My second job is legal oversight. That is, I can only control after constitutional and legal reform, which was initiated by a former minister from a former government of Prime Minister Boyko Borisov. The prosecution is only united but not centralized after the amendments to the Judicial Law. That is to say, I am a senior administrative director and I only lead the administrative directors of prosecutors, but not the specific magistrates, and I cannot interfere with their internal beliefs and give them instructions which, by law, are written only and alone. That is, the supervision of legality, since there are five or six prosecutors from various institutions before me, is written... that is one of my functions. In cases where a termination order is requested to be revoked. I will quote one statistic last year, former Prosecutor General Tsatsarov has eight such pronouncements. My third function is purely administrative. I'm distributing files. That is, when a signal comes, let's call it that way, I explained it to your colleagues yesterday, I distribute it to a separate deputy chief, hence it goes to a relevant district attorney, both in Sofia City, and in Specialized, and on a random basis with a specific prosecutor. That's my job, and that's my inaccessibility, and that's my authority. So I have no worries about any kind of control and this is the real power of the Bulgarian Prosecutor General. As much as the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation and the Supreme Administrative Court can tell a particular judge what to do, as much as I can do it in the same way with the same success, with the same effect and with the same legal value. I'm done with this subject of inaccessibility. It has a political context. It's clear, it's been going on for 10 years. It is clear where it comes from, it is clear how it is needed in the European institutions. But I'm still telling you, I don't have any worries. Change the Constitution, the legislation, the way you think it's right. If you want to judge, close down the prosecution as well. You're the people you judge, but I'm telling you the facts about what he can do, what the Attorney General does, and what his powers are. Its powers are far different from any similar figure in Europe. Unlike Bulgaria, the minister of Austria and the senior prosecutor in Austria can give specific instructions to the junior prosecutors. I can tell you about Germany. I will not stop at the United States of America where no one can file an indictment without the permission of the above prosecutor. So the myth of the untouchable, almighty Attorney General is political. You have the right to develop it the way you like it. I'm telling you the facts, and you can improvise them as you see fit. How long does an investigation take? I think I answered that question. The time is regulated in the law, whether it is investigation and verification, and the decision is made by specific magistrates and not by the Bulgarian Prosecutor General. On the one hand, I see it, and I have said it repeatedly, a schizophrenic split, says: the Bulgarian Prosecutor General is all-powerful and all-powerful. I've explained how powerful and all-powerful I am and what powers I have. On the other hand, I'm asked to control all investigations well in real time and answer almost all prosecutors. Well, since you think so... If those who think so, if those who think that I should answer these questions in this way, if you please, change the Law on the Judiciary and return the old text when the prosecution has been centralised, and then I will be responsible for each individual prosecutor as is in Spain, where the prosecution is hierarchical and no one says that this is a non-democratic state, right, and where there is a very serious specialized justice and specialized prosecutor's office. I'm moving on to Mrs. Ninova's next question, which I can see she's leaving, or maybe she's moving away. It's more of a note. I mean, there hasn't been a D.A.'s office in years. It's just a memory of some past years. Such a structure does not exist to be precise. There's a Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office. This term has been used repeatedly. I just want us to be precise that such a structure, if someone talks about it, just doesn't have that structure. I will continue with the fact that since 2017, I think Mrs. Ninova said 15 signals, as far as I remember, and I am Prosecutor General of 18 December 2019. I'm just saying, I hope I'm not wrong, but he's quoting a bunch of signals. In order to adhere to the legal language, I can answer the following: I can comment again on the constitutional solution that you know, but nevertheless, how can I say, there are political nuances in matters. I can say that in each of these investigations, checks that I am not aware of, the responsibility lies with a particular monitoring prosecutor. If you have written inquiries, make me a list of questions on specific cases. I'll poison specific inquiries to the monitoring prosecutors whether they'll give me permission to comment, and eventually you'll get an answer, or you won't get an answer. That's a legal answer. Yes, 2017 I was the administrative manager of the Special Prosecutor's Office, yes, I have already been the administrative manager. But I must say, I wasn't responsible for the entire prosecutor's office at the time. Otherwise, my term should be halfway by now. About the politicians at KTB. I answered that question repeatedly yesterday. For those who have reported data, more evidence to be precise has been charged. For others who are not related to the main case submitted to the court, there are a number of pre-trial proceedings, including I know at least one sentence of first instance against one person who has received, say, money from this bank. Otherwise, wanting to comment on a legal proceedings would be a violation by the Attorney General, and I do not want to make violations before the National Assembly and violations of the law most of all. For the swine fever. To tell you the truth, I'm not a specialist. I'll look into it. I do not have the potential to give a firm answer to reason, consequence, development and the relevant processes that occur in these diseases, including I am not aware of any checks carried out in this direction, for reasons that I think I have made very clear about the powers. For clean air and land in Bulgaria, I only remind you that the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office spoke first. Yes, I see that this is already a political topic in which there is no harm, because it is a topic that is in the interest of every Bulgarian citizen. The Bulgarian Prosecution Office, mainly along with the control bodies, managed to stop burning hazardous waste in thermal power plants, including the case I cited with hazardous waste thousands of tonnes containing lead. I'm just reminding you that before that, this topic was like it didn't exist. Maybe we haven't done enough. What I can guarantee is that we will continue to work. And we will continue to work on all the topics that have been discussed and which I have commented on so far. Next note or finding, or reason not to support my report, I find it difficult to distinguish how many thousands of inquiries the Supreme Administrative Prosecutor's Office has carried out? Why are there only administrative violations? Well, because that is the law and the law does not accept it the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office. We obey the law as you do. And whether or not there is a crime in individual cases is an assessment of every single prosecutor watching. If the administrative prosecutor considers that there is evidence or evidence of a crime, releases materials and sends them by jurisdiction. Whether it's £442. per day the fine, or 500 leva. I cannot say, but the only thing I am sure of is that it is regulated legally and is not regulated by the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office. And this is a question of legal regulation, which is also not a problem of the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office and there is no way to solve it. We are moving on to the questions I may have missed something for which I apologize to Mr. Bojinov's questions. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] What about the locker? I think I've answered.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u350	Don't enter into a conversation, Mr. Geshev. Continue your statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u351	I didn't hear or I'd be happy to answer. There is a more interesting dialogue that is more dynamic. I'm not worried about being in charge of anything as long as I'm monitoring a prosecutor in specific pre-trial proceedings. I think I explained it, or I'll have permission from the monitoring prosecutor. Since it was a question of this kind of nuance, I think I will respond to a fling in the room that I just heard. I come to the question of Mr. Bojinov, related to separatistism, related to the Bulgarian national interest related to OMO, related to the so-called Roma integration, questionable funding of NGOs. My principal answer to stick to the maximum legal statement is that in these cases there are specific prosecutors working on these cases. I am sure that for the most part they are the competence of the Specialized Prosecutor's Office, that in the event that crimes are found, a crime, for example, under Chapter 1 of the Penal Code, the relevant charges will be brought. What amendments are necessary in legislation? I insist and can be very detailed, I can speak for two hours to explain the Penal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure. I'll illustrate it this way. It's like having an unfit tool and wanting a good result. However, the fit instrument is given by the legislator, i.e. by the National Assembly. You should consider whether this instrument, which according to the prosecution and the submitted expert proposals concerning the PPC and the transport crimes, is a problem that affects every Bulgarian citizen, because every Bulgarian citizen can die at a traffic light in the same way that journalist Milen Tsvetkov died. He can be run over while doing his work in Samokov, two or three times by individuals who have used a cocktail of drugs. This problem can be solved at the legislative level. That is, the fit instrument is given by the legislator! The Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office, including the Bulgarian Court, including the Bulgarian Investigator, including all government officials, should implement the law as it is and comply with the Constitution as it is and as it is accepted by the National Assembly, with all due respect to you. You are the people to judge whether our proposals are adequate, whether you want to accept them, whether you want to accept them. Here I come to the fourth question of Mr. Bozhinov: what are the necessary amendments? Read, I advise you, this is a serious work of a team of prosecutors from the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office, from leading lecturers in the field of law, I am talking about the expert proposal of the Attorney General to amend the Code of Criminal Procedure, including after a comparatively legal analysis of the Italian, German and French legal systems concerning criminal justice. There you will see what is analyzed by the prosecution's practice and what we think is outdated, non-working and hindering to achieve justice as expected by Bulgarian citizens. Whether you change it or not, it is entirely in your power. But I will confirm what I have said, and I can give you quotes from the French PPC, from the German PPC, they are in front of me. No one works at such a high standard of proof in Europe! I say that any European prosecutor will not achieve better results than any Bulgarian prosecutor with this Penal Code and with this Criminal Procedure Code! And despite it, results are achieved that are remarkable against the backdrop of Europe! I told you 3 billion frozen leva for a period of about two years is a result that is European, and it may be the leading one if a comparative analysis of the countries of the European Union is made! I can give specific quotations for legislative amendments.. I think it is unnecessary. You can meet this expert proposal if you like. We're stopping at Mr. Kutev's. What I can think of as a question of how long the prosecution takes and so on. I think I answered that question. The Prosecutor General is not investigating the assessment of a particular monitoring prosecutor and the assessment is based on the law. The Bulgarian prosecutor, any prosecutor in Europe, does not take decisions under political pressure or with an indication from politicians. This is European practice, good European practice. I do not intend to put pressure in one direction or another, all the more so that I do not have such legal powers and would commit a possible crime on a certain monitoring prosecutor because a certain politician expects a certain political result. I have said and will repeat it, the prosecution has no and no regard for its actions with the political consequences or political comments or political assessments! We don't care about these political assessments, and if we care about them, we need to stop working with all due respect to you. We are interested in what Bulgarian citizens want, and it is justice for domestic crime, for telephone fraud I can go on very long. And I am proud that the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office, together with the Ministry of Interior and other partner services, has done things that have not been done since 1989, and I can point them out one by one. I repeat, someone compare a previous period and say which previous period is over more. I'm moving on. Don't say that I'm avoiding the question here. I think he's a member of parliament. Isn't that right? I don't want to be wrong. Okay. And the KTB case. At the risk of repeating, evidence in the case for which they have been collected has been brought up with relevant charges. Again, no prosecutor in Europe is pressing charges with political reference or political judgment. This may have happened in other times, in other systems, in other perhaps political buildings and it happened very quickly. Unfortunately, we are living in democracy, we are working, perhaps unfortunately for some, while respecting the laws and relevant principles of respect for the rule of law. To continue further, so as not to say that I am avoiding the issue of redundancies and so on, this is ultimately some political commentary, I will say that at least what I know is that the MP, your colleague Delyan Peevski, at least what was found in the case, everything that was received as financing by companies or as individuals related to it, is returned to the Corporate Commercial Bank. It's a fact of the case. From now on, it must be made clear that the subject of an investigation in this case are not the borrowers to receive credit is not a crime. Separately, it is decriminalized to receive unsecured loans in another format, in another National Assembly. A crime in my opinion, because I have prepared the indictment, is what the Bulgarian people say: foreign makes man generous. Having a capital of 100 million, operating with 4 or 7 billion that aren't yours, but on depositors, and through a system of companies controlled by you to buy assets or give away that money. But this is not the entire activity of this organized crime group. Unfortunately, it was the main activity, but it had one activity related to normal lending and financing, such as the normal work of a bank institution. Unfortunately, I repeat, this has hardly been more than 10 per cent of the activity of this bank if we say it is a bank. Because Mr. Hanke, I assume you've heard of him, is the first person to call it a pyramid. After that, I only repeated what Mr. Steve Hanke said a few times. I didn't say that. We're moving on. When will the agreements be completed? This was a question from a Member of the National Assembly who did not present himself. I do not know him, for which I apologize. It was in the form of a line, but I see it as a question. I want it to be made clear that the agreement is approved by the Bulgarian court! That is, the judge considers that this agreement, which is offered to him, meets the law and morals and approves it. The agreement means a sentence entered into force. I'm done. This issue is not to the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office, but is also a working institute in many European and Anglo-Saxon countries. Abandoned cases, whether or not this is an erosion of justice. I apologize for the slang expression, remove the possibility of prosecutors shutting down pre-trial proceedings and there will be no problem. It's just that in the Code of Criminal Procedure, what a prosecutor does is to form, to refuse criminal proceedings, to terminate criminal proceedings, to stop pre-trial criminal proceedings and to file indictments. Rough, basically. So the job of a chief prosecutor is also to terminate when he finds no evidence of a pre-trial proceedings. Because the work of a prosecutor governed by the law is to collect evidence both in support of the prosecution and who exonerate the accused or potentially can be charged. From my personal experience as a prosecutor, I know that an act of termination of criminal proceedings can prove to be more complex, given the formalism of the word is not formalism, each process is formal, formalistic Bulgarian Criminal Procedure Code, which requires 10, 20, 30, 40 or 50 pages. Here I will say about the French law that this is done by a resolution: on the basis of a member-whom I am ending. If there's anyone who's unhappy, they're motivated. Resolution! I can stop 300, 400, but I can only write five. Here's a real problem for you. Last time I spoke to you, I said I wanted working models. I hope you also want working models from the European Union, some good European practices. That's what I want, that's what every Bulgarian prosecutor and magistrate wants. Whether or not it will happen depends on the National Assembly after all, on your will. Separately, after that the titles came out, Geshev asked for sentences without proof.... No, I want the French law, Mr. Zarkov. I want Spanish, I want German, not Russian! German and French, that's what I want! And if you do it alive and healthy, you will get much greater results, you will remain much more satisfied, and perhaps dissatisfied, but it depends on procedures, laws and evidence! We are continuing with the question related to Mr. Bozhankov, I think it was why some recordings were pό recordings and the others were not recordings. Mr. Bojankov said he was a lawyer. Then he knew what VDS was, it's part of the evidence that was associated with the case, and what it means to have someone from Dubai filming something and showing it on Facebook. Moreover, what he filmed on Facebook does not prevent it from being printed, placed, applied, associated with the case. There's a difference between these two things. It can be joined. If this man from Dubai wishes to come, to face the Bulgarian justice, to prove that he is innocent, because the Bulgarian court is independent, I explained what the Bulgarian PPC and the Bulgarian NKK are like. As a minister of service once said, there is no capital punishment in Bulgaria. We are a country of the European Union. Here we must, very interestingly, ask ourselves the question: why are certain people hiding outside EU countries? Why not stay in the European Union? Why don't they stay in France, Spain? I'll tell you why. Those who were in Spain are now facing the Bulgarian court and some of them are two or how many years in Bulgarian prison because the case is closed, the case is brought to trial and they are brought to trial. This is why they are not in countries of the European Union. I continue to say that I have spoken in favour of the government because I have defended the Ministry of Interior. I'm not protecting the Ministry of Interior. I said we don't know the difference between protesters and employees of the Ministry of Interior when we collect data on crimes committed. Purely statistical cases of police violence, to call it that, are eight, and rather pre-trial proceedings for hooligan acts, minor bodily damage to hooligan motives are over 50 including them. This is evidence collected by specific Bulgarian investigative bodies and Bulgarian prosecutors. I do not defend the Ministry of Interior, I respect the Bulgarian institutions, I respect every Bulgarian institution and, above all, as I said, the National Assembly, and the Ministry of Interior has done its job perfectly. Perfect things, as I said yesterday, are not in nature. It is logical in some cases that violations may have been committed, crimes may have been committed, the prosecution's work is to gather evidence in both directions. Once again, I congratulate the Ministry of Interior, and I will say again, "I don't know if you remember the footage of 10" 15,000 protesters and non-compliance with the rules in Germany about the pandemic, what happened there, and did anyone raise the question of police violence? They kept their law. And with us, what happened at the beginning of the 2nd? I think the footage is clear. The police beat the cops for two hours, three hours, people who have parents, mothers, children who are waiting for them to come home and who are watching this live on TV. Yes, there may be police violence, we will investigate it and we will check it, we will press the relevant charges, but let us not destroy the Bulgarian statehood, we will destroy, we will insult the Bulgarian police and every Bulgarian institution, because today they will protect you, they will protect someone else and you will contact them again. Because they're a constant, they don't change, and they don't change at four or seven years as the Attorney General. I move on to the double standards and the ruling party was not investigated. I'm not going to comment on that now. I thought I said most of the investigations were against representatives of the ruling party. If it's a double standard to arrest a minister of active government, for God's sake, all the chief prosecutors after me will continue this way with these double standards. Mr. Chenchev's phone records promised Mr. Tsatsarov. With all due respect to Mr. Tsatsarov, I was not familiar with his statement. I do not question your statement, but it must be clear, as I have said, that evidence or data from pre-trial proceedings is given with the permission of the monitoring prosecutors. Therefore, I have a strong doubt that Mr. Tsatsarov said these words in this context, because he is an extremely good lawyer, a former judge, current chair of the KKCONPI. By these two cases yesterday, I said I didn't meet him. The only thing that could be, at the risk of being quite inaccurate, was a case file in the district attorney's office on which a refusal was ordered for the investigation, which concerns crimes under art. 282 at the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office. I don't know what the move is. I think I answered that question in principle. Mr. Zarkov, the power is very great for the Attorney General and so on and so forth. I think I've spoken a lot about this subject, everyone has a point. [[Reply from MP Krum Zarkov.]] I skipped one question about rejections... why is there principled opinions against being judicial review of refusals? Just to say, I think you are not aware, but there is also an opinion of the National Assembly's Legal Committee, where this is the opinion of the Supreme Court of Cassation that this is contrary to the Bulgarian Constitution. I think that's a sufficiently basic opinion. I said again, if you want to change the Bulgarian Constitution and this problem will fall away, change the PPC. It is not the Bulgarian Prosecutor General who will decide whether refusals will be subject to judicial review, whether they will not be subject to judicial review. It's in your power. We're following the law. That's it. I think I'm gonna get this over with, unless there's lines, dots, et cetera, et cetera.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u352	There are no other questions, because there is no more time.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u353	Have a good day! I can say it was an honor to be in front of the people. I do not have any concerns about appearing periodically and I wish to appear before the National Assembly in various formats in which you consider them appropriate, to expose the position of the prosecution, because Bulgarian citizens need to be informed. The Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office has and will be open to Bulgarian citizens, as it has been unprecedentedly opened in recent years and opened because we have no reason to be afraid and we owe accountability and transparency to our work of Bulgarian citizens. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u354	Thank you, Mr. Attorney General. Let's move on to the vote. I'm putting it to the vote. Project! DECISION on the report on the activities of the Prosecutor's Office on the implementation of the law in the period January "August 2020'. The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 in relation to art. 84, p. 16 sentence second of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 138a, para. 2 of the Law on the Judiciary HAS DECIDED Adopts the report on the activities of the Prosecutor's Office on the implementation of the law in the period January "August 2020." Vote 179 MPs: 117, against 61, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-10-15.u355	I will introduce you to the Parliamentary Control Communication on 16 October 2020: 1. Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy and Tourism Minister Mariana Nikolova will answer one question from the National Representative Dzhevdet Chakarov and one question from the National Representative Krastina Taskova. 2. Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva will answer six questions from the MPs Krasimir Yankov 3. Finance Minister Kiril Ananiev will answer a question from MP Krum Zarkov. 4. The Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov will answer six questions from the MPs Georgi Gokov, two questions; Emil Tonchev; Georgi Mihailov, two questions; and Valentina Naydenova and two questions from the MPs Georgi Mihaylov, Georgi Gokov, Georgi Yordanov, Desisslav Taskov, Ilian Timchev, Valentina Naydenova, Ivan Ibrishimov and Anna Slavova; and Krastina Taskova. 5. The Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will answer a question from the MP Irena Anastasova. 6. The Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov will answer two questions from the MPs Lubomir Bonev; and Kalin Vassilev. 7. Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova will answer four questions from the MPs Kristina Sidorova; Boriana Georgieva; Lubomir Bonev; and Zhelyo Boychev. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the HNS delaying replies by seven days have requested: - the Minister of Interior Hristo Terziyski, to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Desislava Taneva of a question by the MPs Dimitar Stoyanov, Valeri Zablyanov, Georgi Andreev, Krasimir Yankov, Lalo Kirilov and Nikolay Ivanov; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev to a question by the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov. In the absence of the country in the parliamentary control session, Interior Minister Hristo Terziyski will not participate. The next regular meeting of 9 p.m. on 16 October 2020 I'm adjourning the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
