ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, the first point of the day is: ANNUAL REPORT ON THE WORK OF THE BULGARIAN ACADEMIA OF THE LEARNINGS FOR 2019 The Chairman of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences was the importer on 27 April 2020. With the Report of the Committee on Education and Science, Mrs. Lurtova will introduce us.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u2	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Please vote on admission in the Chamber of the President of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, Academician Revalski.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u3	Please vote on the procedure so made. Vote 148 MPs: for 147, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please invite Professor Revalski to the hall. Here you go, Mrs. Lurtova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u4	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on the Annual Activity Report of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for 2019, No 005-00-3, submitted by the President of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences on 27 April 2020. At its regular meeting on 3 June 2020, the Committee on Education and Science discussed the Annual Report on the Activity of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for 2019, No 005 00 3, submitted by the President of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences on 27 April 2020. [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u5	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u6	The meeting was attended by: Karina Angelievna Deputy Minister of Education and Science, Academician Julian Revalski, Chairman of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, who presented the Report, and Professor Evdokia Pasheva. In 2019, 2721 scientists worked at the Academy. The publication activity includes 3188 titles in international referees, 37% in the highest category Q1 vs 36% in the previous year. Traditionally, the highest share has the direction of nanosciences, new materials and technologies and the direction of.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... [[Noise and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u7	Colleagues, please be quiet! Mrs. Lurtova, wait a minute! Please, colleagues, for silence in this room! Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u8	The budget subsidy in 2019 reached 99 million. Eight hundred and thirty-five Almost the entire subsidy is spent on salaries, insurance contributions, benefits and scholarships. The own revenues and transfers in 2019 are 100 million. 499 thousand. lv. and for the first time exceed the subsidy. They are formed by contracts under international programs and agreements, by contracts with ministries and offices, with Bulgarian and foreign companies, by selling production, services, donations and others. To them are added transfers from the Research Fund, from ministries and offices, from operational programmes and other programmes of the European Union. The Ministry of Education and Science presented a positive opinion on the Report and made recommendations for a summary and more visible presentation of the participation of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences in the National Road map for Research Infrastructure, as well as in the centres of excellence and competence centres under the Operational Programme. Other recommendations are related to the need for more detailed information on the results achieved under the priorities of the European Research Area, such as open access publications, as well as for deeper analysis and more actively taking steps for a more effective participation in the Horizon 2020 programme, proportionate to the Academy's capacity. Positive written opinions were submitted by the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications and the Union of Scientists in Bulgaria. The discussion included MPs Tanya Petrova, Nikolay Tsonkov and Errol Mehmed. They asked questions about how the Bulgarian Academy of Science managed to attract established Bulgarian scientists from abroad to return to the country, how to achieve an increase in the number of young scientists and PhD students, how to develop research in the field of climate change and at what stage is the work on the main repair of the historical building of BAS. The Chairman of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences replied that scientists are returning from abroad where there is a good institutional environment and a high level of research; that the number of young scientists in many directions, including in the field of climate change, is dependent on the small number of students in the environmental and mathematical sciences; that the building has received a targeted state subsidy of 5 million. BGN, the project has already been prepared and approved and a contract has been declared for its realization. At the end of the discussion and held a vote with results of 18 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Project! DECISION on the Annual Activity Report of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for 2019 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to art. 3, para. 3 of the Law on the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences HAS DECIDED Adopts the Annual Report on the Activity of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for 2019
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u9	Thank you, dear Mrs. Lurtova. I give the floor to Academician Revalski to brief us on the report and to apologize for demoting him to a professor. Here you go, Academician Revalski.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Allow me briefly to present the Annual Report of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for 2019. [[Initiating multimedia presentation.]] In the beginning you see our first president, who in a brief statement, written here, describes the historical circumstances in the establishment of the Bulgarian book company, which later became the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences at Ivan Evstratiev Gesov. Last year was our anniversary. Especially a jubilee year! You will allow me before I begin to expose the things that are related to the Annual Report itself, to mention a few words on the fact that the whole year was marked by the celebration of 150 years since the establishment of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences the oldest national organization in the new Bulgarian history, created nine years before the Liberation. I will not spend much time on this solemn event, but I would like to point out that the celebration of the 150th anniversary was included in UNESCO's calendar and we had the opportunity to see this slide, to open and put an exhibition at UNESCO headquarters in Paris, which caused a very great interest to visit it not only the Director-General, but also a number of ambassadors and representatives of the Bulgarian diaspora. I think that's how we showed our international image. Of course, there were other solemn things related to the postmark, the anniversary coin, the jubilee editions, which also introduced the Bulgarian public during the year, one way or another, to the role of the Academy. On the very day, of course, which is October 12, we received appropriate recognition from colleagues from abroad from a number of academies here on this screen you see representatives of several of the world's largest organizations. Of course, the culmination was on October 12th at the National Palace of Culture. I hope that some of you have had the opportunity to attend this solemn concert-spectrum that we were, of course, greeted by the President, by executives and received the honorary sign of the Head of State. Traditionally, our scientists win most of the awards here on this slide I have tried to give you some of them in different fields of science, which shows that the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences continues to be the leading scientific center in our country. It is traditionally our special attitude towards young scientists, which will be referred to later, as we see in them the reserve for our future development and here on this slide we have shown two points in which we distinguished, on the one hand, young scientists who developed the best projects, somewhere from 250 projects, and those who were best, and, of course, our traditional awards in the name of Ivan Evstratiev Gesov and Professor Marin Drinov. I will say two words about the Assembly of the Academicians and a member of the correspondents, which unites the academics and a member of the correspondents of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. This meeting is the bridge between the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and Institutes and the rest of the scientific and cultural institutions, because more than half of its members are not from the Institutes of BAS but are from other scientific institutions, universities and cultural institutions. Overall, its activity significantly exceeds our average activity and is like the activity of a large institute in every respect, both scientifically and in educational and cultural terms. Let me now go into the main elements of the Annual Report. First of all, this is research, an element of which is audience activity. I'll just focus on the basics. First of all, on this slide you see that according to the world database, the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences produces more than half of Bulgaria's scientific production. The second thing that I would like to point out is that it is strengthening and this is our constant concern, the quality of our scientific publications. As you will notice, this is the part that shows how the articles are distributed in the so-called four quantils, as in the first two that are the best, we have 65% of our publications, which shows that the quality of our scientific production is constantly increasing. The other thing that I would like to say, excuse me, is that in terms of quite top publications we also have success as for a small country - 35 of our publications top the list in the relevant scientific area. There's a distribution here at the institutes, but I won't have time to discuss it. This slide gives you an idea of what the ratio between 2018 and 2019 in the field of publications is, I mean, articles, monographs, textbooks and study aids, as well as scientific and popular. You will see that there is one resistance to the number of publications, stressing once again that this part, which says that the high pillar is a point of increasing this quality, which was mentioned in the previous slide. Traditionally, we have a strong application activity. Last year we have 40 registered inventions and 20 useful models, which again puts us in a leadership position in terms of applied activity in our country. Citability, not to dwell too much on it, is an element that shows how other scientists in the world appreciate our work. In this sense you see that there is a traditionally strong presence of about 45 thousand quotes, which is increasing in the last three years, which is a sign that the world scientific community values our results and quotes them. The second pillar of this activity, which is related to research, is the projects. The Bulgarian Academy of Sciences has always been an institution that attaches extremely important importance to the project activity because it is a way of attracting funds outside institutional funding, which mainly comes under the budget voted by you. Here you can see our projects - the Bulgarians are divided into two large groups of the Research Fund - the first three pillars, which are in the last three years until 2019. As you will see, we have about 2000 projects, and in Bulgaria they are distributed evenly between the Research Fund and other projects, and from abroad they are of the order of just under 600 projects. This column gives us the success rate with regard to our Research Fund, which is a sign of how we deal with project work. Although we have some retreat in 2018 you notice well that the success rate remains above 50%, which is once again a sign that BAS is a leader in the project activity as well. What is characteristic this year and we need to note it is the very strong increase in additional funds outside the budget subsidy. There is a solid increase from where it comes from the Operational Programme for Science and Education for Smart Growth, which is due to the fact that massive work has started on so-called centres of excellence and centres of competence. In the European programmes with regard to Horizon 2020, we have an increase of 18 new contracts, which I must admit, in view of the countries, does not meet our capabilities, but the reason is very simple. It is that in the last two years we have focused on other means that come from the European programmes of the Structural Funds. As you can see, over 80% of the funds we have attracted come from these Structural Funds. The concentration of scientific potential in them does not, of course, enable us to be strong on the other In Bulgaria, as I said, there is the strongest increase in additional funds from Bulgaria. I repeat, however, the broadest piece of 75% includes the structural funds projects, which means that this is European money, but it is distributed in Bulgaria. From abroad, the situation is about the same as last year, we have no significant change. Of the same order were the funds that we had further transferred from abroad and, as you can see, they come from both commercial companies and European Union programmes such as Horizon 2020 and other programmes. I mentioned to you that we have about 600 projects with foreign institutions. Here, on this and several subsequent slides, are listed the most important projects that we believe are the face of our international research activity. I won't dwell on them in detail. I'll just point out that they practically cover all the basic sciences and directions. I am referring to both physics and chemistry, biology, ecology, geology, space research in this respect, we have many important issues both with the European Space Agency and with Russia. It is good to note that our institutes from humanitarian and social sciences are also very active. On the international stage they have very serious projects, as you can see, the Institute for Bulgarian Language, ethnologists, archaeologists and others. I'm now moving on to our expertise. Traditionally, the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is an extremely active expert center. Here on this slide are given our participation in the national programs, which were initiated by the Ministry of Education and Science. We are responsible for three of them: low-carbon energy, innovative biologically active means for precise medicine and environmental protection, as well as, of course, in the Young Scientists and PhD students and in the other national programmes we are one of the main partners. I dare say that the work on programmes of high public interest is extremely active. It shows that scientists can be useful in problems that are directly related to problems of any kind of society. As you can see, there is energy, medicine, environmental protection, information and communication technologies, cultural and historical heritage, etc. We have somewhere around 250 more important experts that have been drawn up at both national and international level. I'm moving on to the other key element, the scientists. I start by saying that we always traditionally treat young people with great attention in this case with the young ones who have not yet become scientists. Last year, a new Science Education Program started, which has two main pillars. One is primarily oriented towards so-called STEM disciplines, working with students in these areas. The other is related to our museum activity. The idea was for the students to come to BAS and BAS to go to school. I think the first year the program was extremely well started and implemented. Here you see several footage from our Student Institute of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. Doctoral students are also very active. There was a very nice interdisciplinary doctoral forum where we saw our achievements, compared to the achievements, of course, of PhD students from higher schools. On this slide, I'm going to have to stop one second longer, because it shows you the distribution of defense PhD students. But what you can't see and I'll admit is that here we have a retreat of more than 10% compared to last year -- one extremely disturbing fact -- I'm going to repeat it later -- a reduction in PhD students, both for defenceists and for those enrolled in regular training. I think the reason for this is that for about ten years, until 2017 there was a neglect and insufficient attention to science as well as in financial terms. This, of course, created a negative process. Science is a rather inertial system. With her and good things come slowly, and bad things come slowly, but when they come, unfortunately, they are not easy to overcome. Although for three or four years we have had solid programmes in the field of work with young people, unfortunately, still, as you can see, this trend does not decrease, but continues. In terms of scientists. I believe that we have one stability, the so-called pyramid is quite natural at most are the chief assistants and assistants, then less above them on the pyramid come the docs, then even less on the pyramid come the professors and at the top are the academics and a member of the correspondents. That is, in this regard, we are a sustainable and normal scientific institution, as in the world, not only in Bulgaria. What is disturbing and what you already see from me is the fourth time I am before you, is this two-back camel of the age structure which, unfortunately, we cannot overcome. It continues its direction to the right and this is disturbing because, as you can see, there are a lot of people in the last part who in the next five or six years will retire and there is no one to replace them. Traditionally, the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is a spiritual center. Here I will go faster through the slides, because our cultural events of a spiritual nature are so numerous that I will not be able to list them all a number of exhibitions of institutes that are one of our humanities. You know about this beautiful initiative of ours. Write correctly! "The Institute for Bulgarian Language. The Literature Institute is very active. Ethnography with an interesting event, a meeting of music and ethnology. Traditionally, the Ethnographic Museum conducts many interesting activities with children who are interested in what is happening from crafts, from martenitsas who do themselves. Or archaeologists, as you know, show each year what is discovered in the country during the respective active season. Archaeologists were very active at international level. They organized an exhibition in Macedonia, where all the artifacts found in both us and Serbia and Northern Macedonia were shown for 100 years. From Rome, the Capitol Museum came frescoes, which were shown in our museum. We've been able to see the Tomich Psalter. There were a number of exhibitions, a number of events that, as I said, I wouldn't be able to list, and I'm just going through them. Another important element of the Annual Report to be presented to you is the subsidy and transfers. An essential element, as mentioned in the Report and the Commission, the budget subsidy last year was almost 100 million Here most of the additional funds were from the Council of Ministers on the occasion of the 150th anniversary in connection with the renovation of our several sign buildings. What is impressive this year, we have achieved great success in the part of the Here is a graph of how they are distributed, on which I do not have time to dwell in detail. Just pointing out, and I will mention it once again that for the first time this year, we actually have more own revenue than a budget subsidy. Once again, this is due to the active work that started on the centres of excellence and the centres of competence, which are programs under the Operational Programme "Science and education for smart growth" - that is, the Structural Funds of the European Union. Our total budget has exceeded 200 million, which is good. I'm not gonna dwell on that again. You can see that the subsidy is given here and the rest are distributed. Rather, look at this graph, which shows in the last more than ten years how the ratio between the budget subsidy, which is blue, and its own revenues and transfers, as you notice, and it was noted, for the first time this year we have more. Again, however, I stress that this is due to the fact that there has been a strong start, a strong start to these projects that are under the Structural Funds. This is, in principle, what I would like to say is that it is not a natural ratio for an organisation like ours, which we have a very strong fundamental part and that institutional funding must continue to grow. We will try to find as many project funds as possible, but not at the expense of reducing the institutional subsidy. And that was mentioned in the report. You can see it in a picture here. Of the subsidy, the main part is 70%. In recent years, this number remains relatively sustainable and is spent on salaries. A serious part goes for scholarships, benefits and social security contributions. Capital expenditure, as you can see, is quite high this year, again due to the Structural Funds and these centres of competence and excellence, because 75% of the funds are intended for capital investments. This means new infrastructure and the accompanying appropriate environment. Of course, as in recent years, this continues. They are at our expense in the sense that the capital expenditure is at the expense of these projects, but to note that the infrastructure of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is improving very much. A few conclusions. The first one I mentioned already, we continue to increase the quality of our production, without focusing on the numbers, you saw them in the table that was related to where our publications have ranked us. The second thing I want to say is that we also have sustainability and strong presence in the field of applied research with 40 registered inventions and 20 useful models. Third thing I would like to say is that the project activity is again related to the traditional strong performance of our national fund. We continue to increase funds under Horizon 2020, such as this year, I would also like to point out that in the two new programmes from 2019, which have been launched, individual programmes, the "Vykren" programmes, and the "Peter Beron" programmes, and the "We," which is for the integration of our colleagues who are abroad, once again we have a very solid success, and more than 50% of the projects come to the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. I'm going to say this one more time, and I'm going to admit that we're noticing this negative trend of decline in the number of Ph.D.D.s, as well as regular Ph.D. students. I've already told you what the reason is. The reason is that we are now picking, in the bad sense of the word, the fruits of what was happening between 2008 and 2017 regarding the financing of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and the attitude towards it as a whole. I hope that with the measures we have taken, also with your help and with the help of the executive, we will be able to overcome this negative trend. Here are some of the priorities we will follow this year and which we have been following for the sixth month despite the difficult conditions, namely high quality of scientific production. Here I would like to stop and say once again, I will not stop repeating that we are distributing the budget subsidy and the budget that you are voting on differentiatedly, as you are voting on to the institutes depending on their achievements, so we already have a decision to divide them amongst scientists. It is very important to know that what we are getting, thanks to what you are voting on us, we are pointing it at the best, not just as many people sometimes think equally. The second priority is the reproduction of scientific potential. I've mentioned it a few times. Our main concern there are young people, so that we can overcome this negative trend and I hope that with the programmes that we have and national and ours, we will be able to overcome this negative effect. Relationships with business, unfortunately, is a priority. We had prepared ourselves for a big meeting with the business in which more than 400 business representatives had signed up to present our developments, but came the state of emergency, literally in a few days there around the 13th was planned, failed us this meeting, but we will hold it, I hope, so that we can deepen this relationship with business. Now, this year, at the beginning of 2020, a mechanism was voted by the Council of Ministers, which defines the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences as the main expert partner of the executive power. We have, of course, always been your partner when necessary, so the expert activity also remains our priority, because we are a national organization, which is called to support all institutions in Bulgaria. This is something we want to realize, but we will try this year to be able to develop an institutional scheme to assist our colleagues in their participation in the project work. And, of course, our traditional cooperation with higher schools will continue in different directions. Currently, it is mainly in line with the centres of excellence and the centres of competence. To conclude, I would say that in our anniversary, an extremely important year, the 150th anniversary, I think we have been able to show not only what we are doing during the year, but also what we have been doing for Bulgaria during these 150 years and for its development in different sectors, not only in the scientific sphere, the educational sphere, but also in the socio-economic life of the country. I believe that the Academy does its duty with dignity and has always been a key partner of state institutions at important moments in the country's development. I think we can safely say that the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is a temple of science and spirituality all these 150 years. Let me point out that our infrastructure is currently modern and is getting even better, which is an extremely important factor. It remains the most important issue to take care of our human scientific potential, to hold it and develop it, because modern infrastructure is an extremely valuable base for quality research, but without people, as you know, this will not be possible. For this our main concern will be young people with different measures, which we in recent years realize for their detention and further career development at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u11	Thank you, dear academic Revalski. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Here you are, Professor Stanilov. Then Mrs. Petrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u12	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, Mr. Chairman of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences! I would just like to say a few words from my position as an academic scientist I am a state scientist and to this day at the Academy of Sciences I have been doing research for half a century. I know the work of the Academy, I know the essence, the difficulty of research, and that's why I'm going to say a few words in general. Firstly, in society, a misconception prevails in modern society, the progress of the socialist to explain mainly by economic reasons and economic means, economic instruments, which is not true, and lately the major scientists in science, in philosophy and so on are of the opinion that knowledge moves society forward, and the economy uses only their achievements. And I give an example to an American physicist who says that if the English in the 18th century hadn't invented the steam machine, there wouldn't be capitalism, which is true. Secondly, for 30 years the modern world has been putting less and less money into fundamental research, which is also characteristic of us for Bulgaria. Fundamental research in physics, chemistry, mathematics, physical chemistry, microbiology, fundamental research, where only 15+ 18% of 100% of projects are successful, everything else goes into the canal and therefore financial capital hardly understands this and does not give money for such research or, if it gives, they are few. But if that hadn't been the case, now with the coronavirus, we would have managed just for a few months, because fundamental research gives us the basis for all these applied achievements. This should also be addressed as people who care about the prosperity of our Fatherland, we should spend more and more money on these fundamental researches regardless of applied disciplines and applied sciences, and so on. I accept this report. The impression of him, as usual, my personal impression is that the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is moving too slowly forward, but, as I will quote again a physicist, a physicist from Uhan, he says that academic science is very conservative, but it has serious grounds for this. So it needs to be understood in another way, knowledge needs to be understood in another way, and it needs to be financed to a certain degree of trust. What are the examples? 12 or 13 years ago, when there were some attempts to close down the Academy of Sciences and it was saved by the intervention of the current prime minister, I asked colleagues who work in the group Max Plan. It turned out that while it was said here at this meeting that science is funded only by projects, Max Plans financed 85% of the state subsidy, 10% of the projects and 5% of the private business, which became 100%. However, almost no one heard anything from this. Another thing was not paid attention to the international audit of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, which showed that it is at the European average level. As for the expert activity, the Chairman of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences said here some figures. I'll just say that at my institute where I work, there are contracts with the state, with state institutions for 90 million! We're 132 of us scientists with degrees and titles are about 76, I think they were, and we have 90 million contracts. lv. The next seven years. It's indicative, it's indicative of other institutes. Therefore, we must vote not only on this report, but we must bear in mind that, when budgets and subsidies are working and so on, we have no doubt that this money is going where it should go. Some of them work for the future, most of them work for the present, but that money can't be scattered. That was my speech. Thank you for your attention. [[Private applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Stanilov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mrs. Petrova, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u14	Dear Madam President, honourable academic Revalski, honourable colleagues! The report of Academician Revalski presented the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences as the country's largest scientific institution with proven international authority. In the 2019 Jubilee, the Academy continues to work for its mission, which it is formulated on its website to conduct research in accordance with universal values, national traditions and interests, participates in the development of world science to study and multiply the material and intangible cultural and historical heritage of the nation. We have learned from the Report that 42 scientific institutes and 8 specialized units, each of which is an independent legal entity, are building the research infrastructure of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. Today, the science created by the Academy is becoming more visible, more needed and more useful to society, because at the Academy, we found out that almost 3,000 scientists are working, which represents about 15% of people who are involved in science in the country. The Bulgarian Academy of Science produces half of the scientific production in the country. The published scientific papers in renowned scientific journals account for 51% of the total number in the country, which are 3808 and 35 of them top the rankings in the relevant scientific field and 37%, which are 637, are in Q1 magazines. The total H-index, which assessed recently the actuality of the scientific results obtained for 2019 from the Report, it became clear that it was 202, representing approximately 80% of that for Bulgaria. The scientific groups of the Institutes of BAS participate in a number of applied developments with registered 40 inventions and 20 useful models. The high level of scientific research from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is proven by over 55% of the projects won in 2019 by the Fund of Science in different scientific fields. According to the new programmes, the new programmes are 70% and 50%, respectively. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u15	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u16	The Bulgarian Academy of Sciences scientists are highly appreciated and sought after partners from the international scientific field, which is confirmed by 18 new contracts under Horizon 2020 worth about 22 million. lv. The Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is committed to all education units. Its units are accredited for teaching PhD students on dozens of programs. Along with the higher schools from and outside Bulgaria are organized training programs for students and students. The Academy is a leading centre for improving the qualification of teachers and a number of initiatives aimed at improving secondary and primary education are already traditional. One of the main priorities of academics at the Academy is to pass on their knowledge and experience to young people. In recent years, the links with talented students and students have been activated as a continuation of the successful completed project "Introduction of modern methods in education and work with young talents" started the Programme "Education with science." The program aims to improve the awareness and access of students, teachers and workers in the field of education to the institutes and museums of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. The tasks are divided into three pillars: knowledge communities, education at the museum and summer schools. 22 of the approved projects were implemented by the Institutes of the Academy, and four were proposed by its museums, National Anthropological Museum, National Archaeological Museum, National Ethnographic Museum and National Museum of Natural History. The student institute of BAS for almost 20 years continues to act in the direction of discovering and encouraging creative talent and potential of adolescents. Provides opportunities for presentation and development of students from eighth to twelfth grade who are ready to engage in research in one of the fields of science and its applications. The idea is to change the methods of teaching at school to become a process of exchanging knowledge between students and teachers, to ask questions, to interrogate each other, to seek information on the network, to seek communication with what they already know to build on their knowledge. That is to say, students should act in a way that scientists work through a research approach. Knowledge should not come as a last resort ready by someone somewhere done, but to experience the way people have found it. Then the emotional component is included and this knowledge becomes part of a person's consciousness, it becomes a living knowledge and is used fully. International PISA and TIMSS studies show that Bulgarian students are not good at using the knowledge they have. The research approach is oriented in this direction to eliminate this deficiency, and to be able knowledge not only to be in the form of facts in the minds of students but to be operational, to participate in everyday life, so that one can consider, to conform to the different things and to learn to use the experienced approach to the surrounding world. In this way, the young man will ask for everything and seek an explanation. One person doesn't need to be retrained every 10 years because of the invading of new technologies. He can move with time himself because he has already acquired this competence to educate himself, to build on his knowledge. More than 50 students took part last year in the session of the Student Institute, with their projects consulted and evaluated by the Scientific Jury. The members of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences actively participate in the preparation and management of PhD students and specialized courses in different universities. Unfortunately, as Academician Revalski said, the number of PhD students every year decreases, leading to a small number of protected dissertations. He said that everything is connected to financial reasons, but also to reasons that are outside of them. Less and less graduates of higher schools are heading towards science. This leads to a strong reduction in scientific potential. In an expression of this, we saw in a slide that the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences employed over 60 years of age were 682, and those under 35 were 274 - that is, two and a half times. According to the rules of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences in the next six years, about 700 scientists must be released from the occupied positions. Therefore, different ways to attract new ones should be sought. One of them is the natural PhD students who are trained in the country and abroad and who choose the scientific career for their professional careers. However, this reserve is not sufficient due to their steadily decreasing number in recent years. Science is the most natural environment in the world of mobility and will be a plus if we can attract Bulgarian scientists from outside. In the last three years 13 Bulgarian young scientists have returned to the country. The national programmes for the integration of scientists, such as the programme.Peter Beron and NIE, are contributing to this, and it is important to bring back those of our countrymen who are willing. Everything said so far gives reason for high appreciation of the achievements of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for 2019 which are presented by the Academy as the most authentic research, expert and spiritual organization in Bulgaria. Before I graduate, I would like to draw attention to the contribution of the Bulgarian scientists on various projects related to the fight against COVID-19. Most people have been talking lately about developing a vaccine. The team working on it also received support from the Institute of Pastor. There are two other directions in which we will probably be successful. One is related to the diagnosis and use of our strains to develop and produce their own tests for the presence of coronavirus. The other direction is related to the finding of therapeutic solutions.Biologists, chemists and biophysicists work on the development of immunostimulants and the search for possible treatments of COVID-19 and similar diseases. We owe our congratulations to the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, who have reacted voluntarily and self-initiately to assist the state in dealing with the crisis. Not only virologists, immunologists, molecular biologists, epidemiologists who have the most projects. Scientists from the Institute of Molecular Biology have been working for three months at the laboratory of Pirogov completely voluntary and free of charge. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u17	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u18	In the fight against the pandemic, both researches from the Institute for Study of the Population and Humans, which are part of a European study, helped: how people accept the current economic forecast for the outcome of the crisis. The third direction is the mathematicians who work on models for analysis and predictions for the development of the pandemic. All institutes that opened their virtual environments helped with the presentation of free-access resources. The quick and timely reaction of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences showed why it is important to have prepared scientists reacting at the moment here, now and on time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u19	Thank you, dear Mrs. Petrova. Do we have any lines? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! This is an established procedure, but it gives us reason to speak responsibly, to talk with a vision of the future of an exceptional institution. Here it has already been mentioned that today's Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is the successor of the Bulgarian Literary Society, which dates back far in the time of the Bulgarian Revival. The significance of this institution I think there is no doubt and the need for care of the state for the development of Bulgarian science, in the face of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, is a task for all of us. However, I will use the opportunity to say a few short words, but I think the necessary words for one of the prominent representatives of this institution, who left us a short time ago. My point is for academic Vodenicharov. I think it's appropriate, considering the Academy's review in 2019, to say a few words about it. And I think it is also well deserved in this Chamber, from this place, to be thus modestly honored the case of academician Vodenicharov. Because for more than half a century, for more than 50 years its name has been associated with the development of the Institute of Metal Science. As a young aspirant he came to work in 1969 and, we can say, for more than 50 years he has been one of those scientists who illustrate the relationship between the practical, real needs of society, state and economy, Bulgarian science and the work of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. His contributions to the development of theoretical science, to the development of knowledge of metals and metal knowledge are undisputed. He is the author of dozens of patented and hundreds of scientific publications. He has made a significant contribution to the development of the Bulgarian arms industry, discovering new technologies and intelligent remedies. Under his leadership, the Institute of Metal Science developed technologies that were sold worldwide. It is his credit for the substantial development of the Bulgarian nuclear power, and something very important we must stress.. he has merit for the protection of Bulgarian national interests and the protection of our nuclear power plant in Kozloduy. Academic Vodenicharov is a member of many and prestigious international institutions. I will mention only a few who represent this level, at which is Bulgarian science. These are: the International Atomic Energy Agency, the European Association of Aerospace and Defence Technologies, the American Institute of Aeronautics, the American Society of Metallurgy. Academic Vodenicharov was a combination of three important, essential features that we need to highlight. He in Renaissance combined hard work in favor of the fatherland, the successive scientist and the discoverer, the innovator in technology. He was a man who was a patriot and a patriot not in words, but proved in science and in his public activity. I am deeply convinced that among the young scientists at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences there are people who follow this path and we should be obliged to provide everything necessary for the development of Bulgarian science, for the benefit of the Bulgarian economy, Bulgarian society, Bulgarian security and defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Mihov. [[Applause from OP.]] - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Zablyanov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u22	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear leadership of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, we look at the Annual Report of the Academy and as if at the moment the situation is both in the world and in Bulgaria, objectively increased interest in science as a key to the development of society and our achievements. People, even on a daily level, today are interested in genetics, biology, began to remember the knowledge they have received, tried to find in science an explanation for what is happening today around us. And this is a very special moment that I think we should all use because the explanation of what is happening around us today can be sought in two areas, and people so seek it for their own salvation in the field of religion and faith and in the field of science. Fortunately, it seems that much of the Bulgarian society is looking for an answer for its future and for its time in the field of science and in its vast majority I think that Bulgarian society, or so it is seen, is at the standards of achievements and the behaviour of the most developed European societies. A few words to say what impressed me with this report, Mr. Revalski. The main questions that stand before Bulgarian science today were well raised. And if, so I have heard from you, there is some satisfaction in the area of funding and some positive perspective, then from the point of view of the issue of the personnel provision of Bulgarian science, of the Academy of Sciences in particular, things are not good. It is very important to be aware of why this is happening. Whether the answer is hidden only in the area of pay, in the public prestige of the profession of teachings, or there is a series of other factors that prevent the Bulgarian science from gaining generational potential and leveling the two-legged camel in statistics. I hope, in the next report, at least I want to hear, and perhaps we should not wait until the next report, we should be aware or at least the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, with the main, main reasons for, figuratively speaking, the ageing of people who today are dealing with science in Bulgaria and the lack of attractiveness of the field of science for young Bulgarian generations. One more thing that seems to me to be highlighted in such a report, I would personally like to hear not only quantitative parameters for scientific publications, for the participation of our scientists in international forums, for the findings and developments that have been made, but I would also like to hear a slight review of the activities of the various scientific directions, as are the grouped institutes of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. I would like to stress that in one such report, it seems appropriate to cite some of the best achievements for the year of the individual institutes, for the contribution of the Institutes at BAS. I would also like to say: it turned out that some key issues from the Balkan relations, from the international relations The Institute of Bulgarian Language of BAS this year had to intervene decisively in a dispute that arose between Bulgaria and Northern Macedonia. In any case, it is about the language dispute between the two countries and the firm position of the Bulgarian scientists from the Institute of Bulgarian Language is not just a scientific assessment, but this position I find a contribution to defending the Bulgarian state policy and to the historical truth, which often becomes a victim of political events and of the conjunctual political environment. So if only that were said, I think that the contribution of the Institute should be emphasized, and it is this assessment that raised the question of the role and place of the institutions.. here Professor Stanilov spoke before me, who are engaged in the study of history, of man and of society, because the contemporary Bulgarian society is subjected to many external influences. We see the dynamics that exist in the formation of public opinion, the public consciousness that influences collective psychology, and these are phenomena that should be subject to scientific attention and to state support for the development of these directions, and not just to be the result of individual efforts of individual scientists. Yes, it is, the discovery in science is always the result of individual efforts, but support must be from the whole society. Therefore, by thanking you for the Academy Presentation Report, I would also like to highlight another fact that I think should be made sense by all of us. On several occasions, the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Socialist Party proposes to introduce a minimum wage threshold for young scientists, a fixed threshold for individual degrees and fixed-payment titles in the discussions of budgets. For now, it seems to me that this debate remains only within the plenary, or rather it is seen as political activity of the opposition, which should not be the case. And since the Academy of Sciences is an institute at least, and it seems to me, of the rank of parliaments, including the Bulgarian National Assembly, I think that the Academy has an independent, public and political resource to put this issue before the Bulgarian state, to the financiers who often look with a horizon one year. Thanks once again to academic Revalski and success in the Academy's scientific work! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u23	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. Are there any lines? Any other speeches? Guys, I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the draft decision presented to you on the Annual Activity Report of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for 2019. They voted 123 MPs: for 123, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, we continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly will remind that a delay of replies by seven days has requested: - Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev to two questions from the MPs Ivo Hristov; and Dora Yankova; - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister for Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva, to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Christian Vigenin; - the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov, one question from the MPs Rumen Gechev and Georgi Svilenski; and one question from the MPs Aleksandar Paunov and Anton Kutev; and three questions with a written answer from the National Representative Dora Yankova; - Minister of the Interior Mladen Marinov of a question by the MP Krum Zarkov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova; - the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova to a question from the MPs Ivan Chenchev and Dimitar Danchev. For lack of respectable reasons of the MP Dean Stanchev his question is postponed to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova. Due to the use of paid annual leave in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva will not participate. Due to the use of sick leave, the Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. Due to a preliminary commitment to the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Dessislava Taneva will not participate. Due to participation in a video conference of the Council of the European Union on Employment, Social Policy, Health and Consumer Affairs, a part of the European Parliamentary Control meeting will not be attended by the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev. New requests for the period from 5 June to 11 June 2020 from: - MPs Rosen Malinov and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov to Mladen Marinov Response should be made in the plenary sitting on 19 June 2020; - MPs Iskren Veselinov and Alexander Siddi to Denitsa Sacheva, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, concerning fragmented legislation in social policy. Response should be made in the plenary sitting on 19 June 2020. Written answers for service by: - Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov on a question from the MPs Nikolay Tsonkov and Georgi Vergiev; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva on a question from the National Representative Dora Yankova; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva on a question from the MPs Desislav Taskov and Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski; - Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov on a question from the National Representative Anton Kutev; - Minister of Culture Boel Banov on a question from the MPs Vassil Antonov and Chavdar Velinov; - Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev on a question from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Christian Vigenin; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a question from the National Representative Yavor Bojankov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva on a question from the National Representative Andon Donchev; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Elena Pesheva; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva on a question from the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Desislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Alexander Sabanov. We're continuing with parliamentary control. Ms. Mariana Nikolova, Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy, will answer a question from MP Dzhevdet Chakarov on the salaries of the administration in the Ministry of Environment and Water. Here you are, dear Mr. Chakarov, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u24	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Nikolova, I recently asked the Minister of Environment and Water Mr. Emil Dimitrov about the administrative capacity of the Ministry of Environment and Water. Minister Dimitrov pointed out as a serious problem finding well-trained staff with specialized profile such as specialists in biology, chemistry, engineering chemistry, hydrogeology, ecology, bioengineering, architecture, water networks and facilities, water purification and many other specialists. In his words, apart from the shortage in the country of experts with such expert profiles, the filling of the ministry's numerical composition is also hindered by the non-competitive, I stress, payment in the structures of the Ministry. According to the minister's reply, the analysis made by the Ministry of Environment and Water has shown that low pay and workload of employees is an obstacle to attracting qualified specialists with appropriate education, which, on the other hand, leads to constant turnover over the years. In the first quarter of this year alone, staff turnover in the Ministry at central level and regional structures is more than 6%, which is very worrying. According to the information presented by him, wages in the administration of the MoEW are lower than other administrations at the same level. As far as I know, in 2019 and 2020 under the budget of the Ministry of Environment and Water, staff costs were increased by 10 per cent for the increase of the basic salaries of the staff and for compulsory social contributions at the expense of the employer. In practice, however, a large part of the ministry's employees in 2019, regardless of the increase, received from only 20 to 80 BGN. The average salary in the Ministry is BGN 1167. According to the National Statistical Institute, salaries in the other similar administrative units are BGN 1426. In this regard, my question to you, in your capacity as deputy prime minister, is: what is the reason why salaries in the Ministry's administration are lower than other administrations at the same level; is there a proper understanding by the government and by your own side of the increased functions and tasks of the Ministry and the need to fill the state of the Ministry with well-trained staff; you as the deputy prime minister what measures will you take to level the salaries of the administration in the Ministry and its regional structures with the salaries of other administrations at the same level? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u25	Thank you. Dear Mrs. Nikolova, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u26	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chakarov, on the occasion of your question I provide the following information: The Ministry of Environment and Water shall carry out its functions by implementing and controlling the implementation of national environmental policy, developing policies on separate environmental components and pollution factors. The following conclusions shall be drawn from the review of the organisational structures and administrative units at the Ministry of Environment and Water, according to the functions and tasks performed, in line with the workload and specifics of the activities, taking into account both quantitative and qualitative characteristics of the staff. In implementing the policy of reducing the number of public administration over the years, the MoEW's Rules of Procedure have been amended several times, reducing the number by 10%. Despite substantial restructuring, available staff are assessed as insufficient, one of the main reasons being linked to budgetary constraints and the requirements imposed to reduce public administration. The shortage of human resources results not only from the increase in functions, tasks and changes in the regulatory base, but also in qualification. As a serious problem is finding well-trained footage with a specific profile. The increased duties and requirements for the completion of the expert composition with specialists in biology, hydrobiology, chemistry, engineering chemistry, hydrogeology, engineering geology, engineer-chemists, ecology, bioengineering, bioelectricity, architecture, water networks and facilities, water cleaning and others do not correspond to the non-competitive pay in the structures of the Ministry, which is why it is often in an objective inability to fill the numerical composition. After the increase of the main salaries of employees in 2020, the average monthly salary in the Ministry is BGN 1167. According to the published data from NSI, the average annual salary for 2019 for the sector of government is BGN 17 116, or BGN 1426. average monthly. The following phenomena are observed: First of all, the average wage for the majority of the positions in office (s) is lower than those defined by § 2 of PMS No 43 of 14 March 2019 for non-employed posts, regardless of the considerable professional experience of experts in the structures of the Ministry of Education. The employees' wage indexes were implemented by the provisions of § 17 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of PMS No 6 of 2019. As a result and after the implementation of the provisions of § 2 of PMS No 43 of 14 March 2019, a large part of the defined fund "Work pay" was consumed, which led to a minor increase in individual monthly salaries and in 2019 part of the employees received an increase of 20 BGN. up to 80 BGN, less than 10%, regardless of the high annual assessments for the performance of the job of a large part of the experts, which does not correspond to the average salary and the average insurance income. When leaving the staff, the Ministry makes it difficult, within the approved cost of the Fund, to reserve funds for basic salaries of not less than 70 percent of the average basic monthly salary for grade 2 at the relevant level, due to the fact that often the salaries of the employees left are lower. At present, in the MOEW structure to reach all basic salary levels corresponding to grade 2 at the relevant level, approximately 110 thousand are needed. lv. monthly or 1 million 320 thousand. lv. Annually. During this year, the Minister of Environment and Water has made a request to the Deputy Prime Minister and Chairman of the Council of Administrative Reform for inclusion in the Council Work Programme for 2020 to prepare an in-depth analysis of pay levels in individual administrations of the same category and a comprehensive analysis of expenditure on staff in administrations, as well as the current circumstances regarding remuneration in the Ministry of Environment and Water system. A functional analysis of the Ministry's administrative system was conducted by the Ministry based on the main approaches of the Functional Analysis Methodology and Manual for the Implementation of the Functional Analysis Methodology. In the field of human and financial resources, the following conclusion is formed: increasing functions, reduced number of employees, no competitive conditions are offered for detention of specialists with specific expertise and experience, lack of qualified personnel due to low pay. Currentity, including experienced and key experts, has been observed, leading to an increase in the risk of reducing the sustainability of personnel and continuity. For the two-year period analysed, those who left the Ministry of Environment and Water's administrative system represent 19% of the state number of the Ministry of Environment and Water's system. For the whole system, the number of new employees is 691, and the number of employees left the MOEW system is 707 employees. The main highlighted opportunities and approaches for increasing motivation are: material stimulus and adequate pay, personal attitude and proper evaluation, career development opportunity, non-financial benefits, efforts of the direct supervisor and so on. It is also necessary to seek and implement an approach to increase the resources to increase staff qualifications in relation to the increasing number of activities and responsibilities for which the MOEW is responsible arising from the dynamically changing regulatory base. The MoEW budget for the 10-year period of accession of the Republic of Bulgaria to the European Union is relatively constant, while commitments and commitments regarding implementation, control and reporting of environmental policy have been significantly increased. I would like to assure you that special attention will be paid to the state of administration and the factors for its motivation in the Ministry of Environment and Water. I will demand that a special meeting of the Administrative Reform Council be dealt with thoroughly and that practical solutions be sought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u27	Thank you, dear Mrs. Nikolova. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u28	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Nikolova, clearly from the answer you gave, is that the situation with administrative capacity in the Ministry of Environment and Water is very serious, as our concerns were serious and regarding the availability of sufficient expertise and staff to fill the need for expertise in the Ministry of Environment and Water and regarding non-competitive pay, which has been for years. The question may arise as to why in previous years other ministers did not have any regard and did not correct this. Yes, indeed, I am a former minister, and in my day the situation was another one, and every second month the administration received an additional salary in the form of additional material stimulus, but what I was impressed with here is the great imbalance between other administrations and that of the Ministry of Environment and Water. It is hardly necessary here to clarify how important the policies are, which are being formed and implemented by the administration at central level and by the regional structures of the Ministry of Environment and Water and the control that is needed in relation to water, waste, air cleanliness, adequate and proper management of our country's water resources, with regard to biodiversity and a number of other policies that need to be implemented and controlled. We're seeing the crises we're facing. At the same time, cutbacks. There must be a differentiated approach here so that there can be sufficient expertise to realise all these functions. We'll be watching from here on out. You make a commitment to be on special attention. There really must be justice and be motivated and stimulated all in administrations. I am not saying this as opposition, by the political power that I represent, namely, the DPS and I, as a member of this parliamentary group, but in view of the importance of environmental policies. I would like to see that we will follow exactly what measures will be taken in this ministry and, in principle, for administrations to have adequate, correct and fair pay for motivation of all experts at all levels of administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mrs. Nikolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u30	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chakarov, I would like to provide further clarification in this regard. Indeed, wages in the MOEW administration are lower than other administrations at the same level. The analysis across the whole structure of the MOEW shows that the staff is insufficient for the vast areas and the diverse control functions that cover the relevant units. The low pay and workload of employees is an obstacle to attracting qualified professionals, as has already been highlighted, with appropriate education, which on the other hand also leads to constant turnover and periodic release from numbers over the years. In the first quarter of this year alone, staff turnover in the central management of the MOEW administration has increased by 6% of the total number, and in recent years there has been a tendency to switch experts to other state bodies offering better pay. In 2019 and 2020, staff costs increased by 10 per cent for the increase of the basic salaries of the staff and for statutory social contributions at the expense of the employer. The funds thus provided to increase the basic salaries of employees cannot be reached the decision on this point. 4 of Protocol No 46 of the Administrative Reform Council meeting of 16 August 2018 to address wage differences in administrations of the same category. The conceptual decision to increase the staff costs of all administrations by 10 percent has led to a greater difference in pay and in the MOEW compared to administrations of the same category. Obviously, the problem of the level of remuneration in the Ministry of Environment and Water remains a management challenge and a timely and effective solution must be found.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u31	Thank you, dear Mrs. Nikolova. Thank you for participating in parliamentary control today. We continue with Mrs. Ekaterina Zaharieva, Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister for Foreign Affairs. It will answer a question from MP Krum Zarkov on establishing a National Monitoring Mechanism for Combating Corruption and Organized Crime, Judicial Reform and Rule of Law and Council for Coordination and Cooperation. Here you are, dear Mr. Zarkov, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Deputy Prime Minister, Decree No 240 of 24 September 2019 of the Council of Ministers established a National Mechanism for Monitoring the Fight against Corruption and Organized Crime, Judicial Reform and the Rule of Law and Council for Coordination and Cooperation. In accordance with art. 3 of the Decree should ensure coordination, cooperation and dialogue with other state authorities and non-governmental organisations, as well as monitor and report on the progress made in implementing the objectives set out in the National Mechanism. In other words, this mechanism should replace the monitoring mechanism implemented by Europe for years. It is envisaged that the Council be co-chaired by the Vice-President of the Supreme Court of Cassation, the President of the Supreme Administrative Court, the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Chief Inspector of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council, the Chairman of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, the Minister of Interior, the Minister of Finance and the Chairman of the Committee for Legal Affairs of the National Assembly, as well as the Presidents of the various parliamentary groups to be invited. On 12 February this year, the Council of Ministers adopted amendments to the above-mentioned decree. According to them, the Council began its activities when the European Commission's decision of 13 December 2006 establishing a Cooperation Mechanism entered into force. That is, the Council should start meeting even before the monitoring mechanism is formally repealed. The report you have presented makes some ideas clear about this change. But my question to you is this: what did the above-mentioned change require specifically, and what actions have been taken since the entry into force of the Decree to this day with a view to the effective start of the activities of this new authority?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u33	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. You have the floor to answer, Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u34	Dear Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Zarkov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you for the question, as I believe that the subject of the rule of law is really of crucial importance to the well-being of every Bulgarian citizen and it is one of the foundations of the state and of the European Union itself. The rule of law must stand on the agenda with or without the Cooperation and Evaluation Mechanism, which I have said many times. Now to the specific question. The decree adopted by the Council of Ministers, which you described quite in detail in your question, its composition aims to create a National Mechanism for Continuing Reforms, because reforms are a process, they are not a play of single action and each of the systems always needs improvement with the development of public relations. It will participate on a voluntary basis, because especially the judiciary, the executive could not oblige, and this is written in the Decree: participation of the executive, legislative and judicial authorities. The decree is agreed with all interested parties, it has been a long time for a public debate not only with the judiciary but also with civil society. It is motivated by the belief that the rule of law can be achieved really only by the joint efforts of all the authorities, of course, while maintaining the independence of the judiciary. The initiative is debated within the framework of progress under the Cooperation and Assessment Mechanism, as well as informally consulted the representatives of the European Union. Its preparation began months before the last European Commission report of 2019. One of the very important parts of this decree is the role of the Civil Council, which will be attended by representatives of professional organisations and civil society. I believe that there is no way without the full inclusion of the non-governmental sector of real quality reform and I am convinced that this civil council will also increase the transparency of the work carried out by the Council. With the amendment of the PMS, it aimed to initiate the procedure for the formation of this Council in advance, so that it could begin immediately soon. Unfortunately, the situation with COVID 19 slowed this down a bit. The aim was to form the Civil Council, but due to the situation the deadline was extended and despite the extension very few representatives of the civil sector submitted applications. To this end, I suppose Minister Danail Kirilov extended the procedure for forming the Civil Council for a new 60-day period with the aim of enabling all non-profit legal entities registered for carrying out socially useful activities in these areas to be able to submit their applications and participate in the Civil Council. These non-governmental organizations will participate in the Civil Council for one year, so is the Council for Judicial Reform. They are also Rotted there in order not only to be the same non-governmental organizations, but to be able to involve others in the work of this Council. I hope, after this new deadline, that more organisations will have the opportunity to submit applications and that the Civil Council itself will be formed, that the National Coordination Mechanism will also begin to operate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u35	Thank you, dear Mrs. Zaharieva. The line is written by Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u36	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Madam Vice Prime Minister, when I asked this question, I wanted to put the emphasis on the Monitoring Mechanism and what will happen to it and after it, but my colleagues will continue the questions and questions on this topic. Meanwhile, several things have happened between asking the question and his answer. The idea of changing the PMS to start creating the Civil Council is not bad in itself, as this monitoring mechanism from Europe who knows when will fail. But this procedure has been corrupted. On 2 June this year, lots were held at the Ministry of Justice in different categories, with different participants and organizations to occupy their seats in the Civil Council. This lot was set to become so that everyone could participate, be on equal play, avoid the subjective judgment of the people who eventually issue the order to create this council to be public and transparent. All this was corrupted the evening, the same night, with an absolutely incomprehensible act of Minister Danail Kirilov, who simply canceled one of the results without explaining why. Why this particular result, why this particular organization, what it doesn't like? The explanation that, if you see, only two organizations have joined this category is not enough, because in other categories the same thing has happened that has not caused the Minister to react. And what kind of lot is that? And until the one we liked?! I only recall that the Citizens' Council here has a huge role to play, for the simple reason that the other participants in the mechanism, in the Council, are precisely those whose action will have to be assessed, therefore this is the only external view of the system.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u37	Please finish the line, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u38	I am finishing, Mr. Chairman, with the following question: Daniel Kirilov did not accept the lot, and you, Madam Minister, as his representative Deputy Prime Minister, do you accept their actions and do you not think that the whole good idea was largely corrupted already?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u39	Thank you. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u40	That's not asking. I'll do a douche. I am pleased that you like the productions in the Decree, which has been prepared by my team, it is agreed, as I said, in advance and with the experts in the European Commission, with all the stakeholders. The truth is, obviously, because of the pandemic, few organizations have submitted. However, the questions about the solution to Minister Kirilov. After all, I believe that there is no harm in more organisations being able to submit applications. It's certainly not just two. I myself in the Civil Council know how many organizations deal with the rule of law and judicial reform, which is good. I think that's good for civil society, and I don't think that's a bad thing for the Civil Council. I hope there will be more interest, because in the end I think that civil society is a corrective of each of the authorities, including the judiciary, not only of the executive, and it is good that they themselves are engaged in these processes. I remember that there was a really great interest in the Judicial Reform Council, and just when we were thinking about how de facto to sow those who have submitted because it could not become a council with 50.100 participants, it would be non-working, then it was also the idea of this lot, which has been transferred to this mechanism. I do not think that this will undermine the work of the Council and I hope for greater interest on the part of civil society itself in forming these policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u41	Thank you, dear Mrs. Zaharieva. We continue with a question and a question to Mrs. Ekaterina Zaharieva, who are on the same subject. We will be guided by the procedure described in art. 106, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The question is from MP Krum Zarkov on the cooperation between Bulgaria and the European Union in the field of judicial reform and the fight against corruption. The issue is from the MPs Aleksandar Paunov and Georgi Gokov on speeding up judicial reform and the fight against high-level corruption in order to end the monitoring by the European Commission. You have the floor, dear Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u42	May I ask the question, then ask the question?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u43	The order of action is a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u44	The order that's declared here is gay. [[Replica from Deputy Prime Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u45	First the question, Mrs. Zaharieva, or the question? The question is first. [[Replica from Deputy Prime Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva.]] The question and the question are the same subject and the first question was received, then the question. The order is to ask first, because it is first, then you will ask the question, you will give a general answer to both. [[Heckling]] I don't mind. Here you are, Mr. Gokov, but right after you will be Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u46	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! Madam Minister, our question is about the information that the European Commission will keep the Monitoring Mechanism to Bulgaria regarding the justice system. I would like to tell you that our question is not a result of any nagging, but is a result of a reaction to this government's practice of bragging about things that have not been done in general. The Bulgarians know that from the moment of Bulgaria's accession to the European Union because Bulgaria and Romania had not yet made enough progress in the area of judicial reform, corruption and organised crime, the Cooperation and Verification Mechanism was established and implemented by the European Commission, and the idea was to help the two countries to catch up with reforms and to enable them to build effective administrative and judicial systems necessary for the fulfilment of their obligations related to EU membership and to ensure proper implementation of the laws, policies and programmes of the European Union. At the end of his term of office, the former head of the European Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker, announced in his Report on the Cooperation and Verification Mechanism that he recommended that monitoring be terminated. In practice, however, the Commission did not take such a decision, but that the decision to end this mechanism must be consulted by the European Parliament and the Council, although that coordination is not necessary. In fact, this mechanism has not been terminated, and in the last six months it continues to exist, but without any monitoring reports on it, in order to get to the moment, about ten days ago, when, in a report, but not under the Cooperation and Verification Mechanism, but on another occasion, about macroeconomic imbalances, it was noted that the monitoring of the judiciary was not terminated. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm coming, Mr. Chairman. I'm not going to interpret this because I'm going to do it from a different perspective. You will say what this is about, but I ask you to answer: do you agree with the reasons for the European Commission's decision that there is still no results needed to remove Monitoring in the fight against corruption and there is still something to be done to reform the court and prosecution? What actions will you take to prevent the danger that monitoring will not only not be terminated by the European Commission, but will it come up with a negative report on this mechanism? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u47	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Here you are, Mr. Zarkov, you have the floor to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Madam Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In fact, I will develop not only this question, but also the debate that took place last week, including in this House, in this building, when, on behalf of the BSP parliamentary group, we alerted that bad signals were coming in a report of the Council of the European Union regarding how our European partners and institutions there viewed what was happening in Bulgaria in the area of judicial reform. When we made this appeal, this request for a conversation was returned to us with accusations of spreading false news, misunderstanding, and I was personally approached by the chairman of the GERB party, who asked me to read more, and I decided to read together what the European Union documents and the deputy prime minister to take part in them. They state the following: on 22 October 2019, in its latest monitoring report, the European Commission issued its opinion that the progress made by Bulgaria is sufficient to fulfil the commitment of the country made at the time of its accession, but the final decision will be taken into account the opinions of the Council and the European Parliament. Until now, an official definitive decision to conclude the Cooperation and Verification Mechanism has not been disclosed, nor has it been taken. Instead, in a recommendation on another mechanism of the European Semester, the Council of the European Union, namely one of the institutions for which the Commission expects their opinion, considers it necessary to recall the existence of a special monitoring mechanism and to state, I quote: In this regard, I ask that we discuss and answer what are the reasons why the Cooperation and Verification Mechanism against Bulgaria is not yet officially declared closed and, more generally, will the cooperation between Bulgaria and the European Union continue?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u49	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. You have the floor for a general answer, Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u50	Dear Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Zarkov, Mr. Pawnov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Once again, I would stress that Bulgaria's aspiration to uphold the rule of law began long before the establishment of the Cooperation and Assessment Mechanism, and I firmly believe that this aspiration should be a priority of the country's governance, whether this mechanism exists or not. These reforms should not be made because of Brussels, Berlin, The Hague or Paris, but especially because of Bulgarian citizens and should not be imposed only on the outside. I believe that over the years, it is with this attitude that a number of governments, parliaments, representatives of the judiciary in cooperation with the European Commission, but also with a number of Member States, not only Commission experts, have been carried out and these efforts have been assessed in the reports, first, in 2018, when three of the six indicators were temporarily closed, then finally in the October 2019 report, in which the Commission concluded that our country has fulfilled all the indicators under the Mechanism. Moreover, the Commission itself consistently maintains this assessment, including with Commissioner Dombrovskis' statement of 21 May 2020, following the publication of the Seed Report. Answering a question, he said that the European Semester is not related to the Cooperation and Assessment Mechanism and as far as the That hasn't changed, there's nothing new here. The Commission's positive assessment was also confirmed by the European Parliament after discussions were held in the portfolio parliamentary committee LIBE. In December 2019, European Parliament President David Sasoli sent a letter to the European Commission in support of termination. The Council also expressed its opinion, which is materialized in a report by the Finnish Presidency. In its discussions, the Member States welcome the progress made by Bulgaria during the reporting period. As you rightly pointed out, the mechanism was created by a Commission decision and not by a decision of the Council or of another body. I suppose, first of all, the fact that the period coincided with the beginning of the new committee's term of office, then the pandemic situation slowed down the formal decision-making process. In fact, we don't have a mechanism, we don't have missions, we don't have reports, we don't have lips, we don't have written reports or any other reports, we don't send information. However, indeed, the Commission must complete the procedure and take a formal decision. Since you had another question, the Commission reassured us once again that it did not plan any report or any information on this mechanism, that is, this has not changed. However, this does not change our ambition to continue implementing the planned additional reforms that go beyond the indicators of the Cooperation and Assessment Mechanism itself. As I have already explained, the rule of law is an imperative that does not only stem from this mechanism. In the previous question, I said that the formation of the Civil Council at our Coordination Council has begun, the National Assembly has already amended the Law on the Judiciary, in which the magistrates' duties have been dropped to declare their participation in professional organizations, as well as the automatic suspension of magistrates during an investigation. You know that the government has submitted to the National Assembly a proposal to amend the PPC and the Law on the Judiciary, which they must decide, at our discretion, the issue of the prosecutor general's accountability. This law was submitted following an opinion of the Venice Commission and the government submitted a request to the Constitutional Court to give a mandatory interpretation of the constitutional provision which immediately governs the powers of the Prosecutor General. We are determined, of course, to continue the procedure after the Constitutional Court has ruled, depending on the decision on the adoption of these amendments. With regard to the prospects for cooperation between Bulgaria and the European Union in the area of judicial reform and the fight against corruption, I would like to share, and I am convinced that you know that Bulgaria has consistently supported the creation of a common European mechanism for years, a horizontal one, which should be equally and transparently applicable to all Member States, because we firmly believe that one of the main, in fact, the most important achievement of the European Union is not the common market, but the rule of law and democracy. For years the debate on the creation of such a mechanism has been going on in the European Parliament, de facto, for about a year now and at the Council level of the Commission. There has been such a debate in the European Parliament years ago, which has adopted many resolutions on this subject. The European Union is currently working on this mechanism. Bulgaria has a national coordinator, there are representatives of the institutions and many thanks to the work of these coordinators. This mechanism will cover four pillars: justice systems, anti-corruption framework, media pluralism and institutional issues related to checks and controls. The new mechanism will present an opportunity for an open and timely dialogue on the exchange of good practices and will be of a preventative and not of a shady nature. The first annual report is expected to be presented to the Council in September or October, depending on when the experts will be ready with this report, as the work is already under way. In alphabetical order, the countries have started consultations on video conference talks, unfortunately, the colleagues from Brussels cannot come here with representatives of the executive power, the judiciary, the civil society in all the Member States of the European Union. The first report is expected to be prepared in September or October and the first hearings accordingly. On June 5, we had this conversation, and we even made it official. These are measures that the government is taking, even though there is already a Commission report which de facto says: "You have fulfilled the indicators! " And in answer to the question, I said that reform is a process. E-Justice still needs to be completed, the court card for which the Second Judicial Council is debating, I can also point out many other things. You know that the Ministry of Justice has announced, the Council of Ministers has adopted the National Criminal Justice Strategy. It is really very good, cooked by prominent Bulgarian scientists, which is supposed to lead to a new and amendment of the Penal Code. Also with regard to administrative and criminal proceedings, amendments to the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments are taking place. The reform is a process and in no case should we say yes, we already have a positive report, it says that the indicators are met and we must end and forget about the work on these reforms. No, on the contrary, I think that this positive assessment obliges us even more to continue working in all areas of law, and where we need to improve and develop.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. Who's gonna make a line?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u52	We are entitled to two additional questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u53	Gentlemen, I explained the order: you are entitled to a reply, then Mrs. Zaharieva's duplicate, then you are right, Mr. Zarkov, to proceed under the rules of procedure. Here you go, Mr. Pawnov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u54	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I am not satisfied with your answer because it is bureaucratic and I will motivate myself why. The law enforcement system of Bulgaria is not effective. She fails to appease the insatiable appetite of the strong of the day. She fails to punish the abuses and condemn the unapproachable thieving and corrupt who have protection. The shameful monitoring mechanism, which is proof of what the developed world thinks of us, does not seem to be downloaded. Only a month ago, during the local elections, you convinced us otherwise. The Minister of Justice has vowed to resign if the Mechanism is not deposed by the end of the Commission's mandate, Juncker. Juncker's gone, but Kirilov's still here. The signature of the President of the European Union has been placed under a document in which he writes, I quote: "In the framework of this mechanism the Commission continues to monitor judicial reforms in Bulgaria in the fight against corruption. The Commission has been monitoring judicial reform for 13 years. It is evident that in the fight against corruption there is still much to be desired in the so-called judicial reform. "It is seen from this report and is seen by all Bulgarian citizens, not only by the competent institutions. The monitoring continues, the problems remain and one thing is certain and is not subject to interpretations of this government and your majority is completely incapable of solving them. It is therefore necessary to resign, along with the Minister of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u55	Thank you, Mr. Pawnov. Madam Secretary? No doubles in this case. Dear Mr. Zarkov, you have the floor for two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, my two additional supplementary supplementary supplementary questions are the following: are there Member States of the European Union that have reservations about the fall of the Monitoring Mechanism my first additional question? Secondly, do you not think that the daily corruption scandals that have rocked our country in recent weeks and the reaction of the institutions to them, or rather the lack of reaction will also affect the final decision to implement a special monitoring mechanism to Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u57	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. You have the floor to answer the questions, Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u58	Dear Mr. Zarkov, the Council has agreed, he is not making a decision. On my final information, in the discussion of the Commission Report, there are several countries that welcome the progress made, but cannot yet categorically complete these three things that I have listed to you, which are already a fact of the new monitoring mechanism, the amendments to the Judicial Law, and the latter, of course, is the waiting of the Constitutional Court's decision. However, in fact, none of these countries mentions any new requirements or new recommendations, so the Council consults. Now the ball is in the hands of the Commission, that is, it does not interfere with the procedure. With regard to the scandals which in Bulgaria have very often escalated lately, the competent authorities, at least I have not heard, have taken no regard for any of them, and these are the investigating authorities and the prosecution. So I'm pretty sure that once they've formed investigations, they're carrying out checks. That there are scandals in Bulgaria, as you called them, some of them, of course, created by people with multiple crimes and who are hiding from justice in Bulgaria... [[(Replication by the National Representative Alexander Paunov:]] Of course they haven't been proven, but the scandals in the media are even less proven, Mr. Pawnov. They're even less! Anyone can say anything about anyone. So as long as there is an investigation, of course there is a presumption, but I say again: caused by one person who is hiding, I do not believe in any way that they can influence the Commission's final decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. You have the floor to express your attitude to the answers, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u60	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! One of the indicators that the European Commission uses when preparing its reports is the Eurobarometer's research on citizens' perception of corruption in their countries. Such research was printed a few days ago. According to him 80% of Bulgarians believe that corruption is widespread in Bulgaria. This indicator remains high. Unfortunately, however, 51% of the Bulgarians more than half believe that the level of corruption in Bulgaria has increased in the last three years. This paradox, where the European Commission says that we have met some formal criteria, but people do not see them, leads to the fact that the mechanism has not actually been cancelled, that even if it is cancelled, it will hardly help who knows what, and it may harm. The mechanism must, of course, be cancelled because it has long been failing to play its role and some countries are using it against us not in the way we should have agreed here. But we have a problem, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, in our communication with the European institutions, exactly the same as we have with our communication with the Bulgarian citizens. You, the government, don't tell them the truth. We're hiding behind some cosmetic changes, and the truth is, everything's back to normal. The truth is, we're talking to Europe, and she knows it. That missing replica of Minister Taneva from the other day may have been taken out of context, but it shows well the way of thinking, namely, see, something will cover not to understand us, and then we will continue to do the same. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] You'll give me 20 seconds, Mr. Chairman, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u61	You have 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u62	In these 20 seconds I would like to say the following to the Bulgarian citizens: according to Minister Zaharieva, we do not have a mechanism, because, see, there is no report. De Jure, we do! In Bulgaria, Madam Minister, we have institutions and Constitution, but the strong of the day do whatever they want under the favorable view of a weak government. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u63	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Thank you for participating in the parliamentary control today, Mrs. Zaharieva. Have a good day!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u64	We are continuing with questions to Mr. Krasimir Valchev, Minister of Education and Science. There is a question from the MP Mr. Ivo Hristov about the policy of the Ministry of Education and Science regarding distance education. Mr. Hristov, you have three minutes to present your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u65	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Ministers, honourable Members! Dear Minister, my question is about the policy of the Ministry of Education and Science regarding remote education. The measures to limit the coronal pandemic forced the Ministry of Education to introduce remote learning. I very much hope that you realize that this form of education has many hidden underwater stones. I mean not only the quality of the educational case, but also the effect of desocialization of children. I would like to remind you that education is primarily a social and educational process. Mr. Minister, my question is: how do you evaluate the results of distance learning, especially in the initial and middle course? Do you think that the remote form of education can replace the traditional? When will remote training be limited? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u66	Mr. Valchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u67	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Hristov, as you said, we were forced to start with e-learning from a distance during the emergency situation, because there was no way for students to be present in the real classrooms. Training from a distance, learning in an electronic environment has advantages and disadvantages. Our policy is not to substitute for attendance training, but, on the other hand, we must bear in mind that the electronization of the world, further digital transformations are inevitable that today's generation of children want or not with you, will learn much more through screens and much less than a book carrier. The fundamental, the great change compared to our generations is in the external, in the information environment. In the old days, if we wanted to read more, learn more about the world, we should have opened more books, and today they stand more time in front of screens if they want to learn more about the world. This is why education systems change, but they do not change so as to replace attendance training, but to supplement it in an effective way. What are the negatives of learning in the electronic environment of distance learning? You spelled out some of them. Education is socialization and education. It cannot take place effectively in an electronic environment. The best training, because you asked about our policy, clearly the best training is in the real classroom, the presence, the direct interaction with the teacher, nothing can replace the direct interaction with the teacher. Negatives, the shortcomings of e-learning are also that part of knowledge, skills, competences cannot be effectively exploited in an electronic environment. Such are a large part of the practical competences. Such are the social-emotional skills, the motor skills also suffer, the development of motor skills and so on, all the shortcomings that suggest children to be in the classroom. There are numerous studies in the field of neuropsychology that show that long-term interaction with electronic devices, especially in early childhood, the earlier the age, the more definite these conclusions are, the more the intellectual and neuropsychological development of children. Therefore, we did not start training in an electronic environment in its full sense for preschool children or, if so, it was rather a type of consultation with parents or the assignment of additional tasks through parents. Also studies show that regardless of age long interaction with screens leads to the accumulation of anxiety, nervousness and so on, which we can say are negatives of learning in an electronic environment. On the other hand, we cannot ignore that today's and tomorrow's generation of children are learning and learning much more than electronic devices, from electronic resources. If the teacher and educational systems do not direct them to the right electronic resources, and this is done through lessons, by e-learning, by developing digital media literacy, these children will still stand in front of the devices, but will be managed by the algorithms of social networks, on Youtube or other programs. All education systems go to providing students and teachers with more educational resources. This is what we are going to do, and we are going to have free visualized educational content on all educational programs, something that we have set for ourselves. How should the effective mix between attendance and e-learning be sought from now on? At the beginning, the whole training must be definitely in the present form, in the same way in the above courses, but there what can be done is part of the activities to be carried out in an electronic environment, but here we are not talking about replacing attendance training, but rather about supplementing. If we talk about how e-Learning should be used in the future first, it is not an alternative to attendance, it can only be an emergency alternative as it was now. We, unfortunately, are likely to have flu vacations and other circumstances that require the absence of students for a few days or more. We are currently losing on average 3 weeks, 10% of study time is unable to hold attendance sessions. Given that the system launches effectively in two days in an electronic environment, we have no excuse from now on for this to happen to us in the future so that this loss is not available. We have not done a comprehensive analysis of training in an electronic environment, such is yet to be done. In fact, we have started it, but if we want it to be good enough and thorough enough, we need some time, including now we will see the results of external assessments. In general, to all the negatives that we have said, I would add another inequality. While each child has physical access to school, it may be 20 km away, this is the criterion for protected schools, you know, it may be 20 km away from school, but we have provided every child with physical access to school and teacher, we cannot say that we have provided equal access to training in an electronic environment, because not all parents have enough devices, internet connectivity and so on. But with those students who had good technical, technological security, well-established organization of schools, what we can say is that the students were studying. I am not talking about education and socialization only in terms of the training process. Students were studying because a relatively good organization was created because parents were actively involved and this has yet to be measured. But you know that measuring educational results is very difficult, as this is an intangible product, on the one hand, on the other hand, is the result of multiple factors. I'll finish my show later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u68	Mr. Hristov, two supplementary questions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u69	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Minister, colleagues! Mr. Minister, thank you first for your answer, he was as always at the height. I realize the complexity of matter and ambivalence of this matter. I also realize that there are circumstances that make necessary so-called remote and electronic training. On the other hand, however, I realize that the exception can become a rule and if it becomes a rule, it will mean a severe blow to the not particularly high quality of Bulgarian education, especially in the basic and average course. My two supplementary questions are as follows: the first, does the Ministry have any idea in which areas of distance training will be preserved and in what forms? And secondly, is there a clearly manifesting policy of the Ministry that this is an emergency and not a basic or even an alternative or a parallel form of training? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u70	Thank you. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u71	Thank you. In fact, I had the opportunity to say this, we see it categorically as an exceptional alternative, on the one hand, on the other, as an addition to training in the real classroom. This also happens in higher education systems for more than 10 years, looking for this effective hybrid form. Electronic platforms must be used for the assignment of tasks, for creative tasks, for self-preparation, for the electronic resources for further learning. The fact is that children learn a lot, today's generation of children learn much more and much better through images. We don't want to, they will spend an average of several hours in front of electronic devices in the future. We all study much more throughout our lives, they will do so by reading from electronic devices in the future, we with you right now even doing so. Much of the information we acquire is from the screens of electronic devices. We must, of course, prepare them, except in digital media literacy, to be digital creators, not just to be digital users. In this sense, there is a great difference between training through information technology and training for information technology. Much greater emphasis should be on the second because almost all professions, even those whose main characteristic is working with people, will require interaction in the future with machines, algorithms, artificial intelligence, even the teaching profession, lecturers will work with algorithms that will analyze educational difficulties. And we need to develop digital creativity in them.. Information technologies are one of the competitive advantages of our country, so we increase our acceptance in the specialties related to information technologies that will be needed, as I told you, for all professionals, for all professions. What we foresee with the Preschool and School Education Act is three things. One is to be able, during emergencies, in exceptional circumstances, to switch training to an electronic environment at a distance. The second is that students who are permanently unable to attend the class can participate in the real classroom through a virtual classroom, through training. Therefore, we need to have technological security in the schools something we are also working on in each classroom, this is also happening through electronic diaries. Much of the schools now around 1800 work with electronic diaries, that is, each teacher works with an electronic device. When we talk about training in an electronic environment, it is not only from a distance, it is in classrooms and in offices. It also needs to be extended in order to make use of more electronic resources, to increase learning interest. In today's information environment where children live, in the ocean of information, the competition for their attention and their concentration is very high. And if we make them more interested in learning, including using electronic devices in schools after the fourth grade, it would be very useful. We also plan to enable innovation projects, you know that the so-called innovative schools are also a type of experimental schools, to be able to conduct them in an electronic environment for a small part of the hours after the fourth grade. This is probably going to be up to 20%, but at a sub-legal level this can also be limited in smaller rates when we talk about a secondary stage, but here we say that this is not a universal opportunity, but only if, as recorded in the Preschool and School Education Act, this leads to improvement of educational results. Each innovation project has a temporary approval and it must prove that it improves the results. The electronic environment enables you to participate in the lessons in a school many different people, specialists from the practice, from the environment. What they told me yesterday is that a Bulgarian scientist from CERN, who is in Geneva, can take part in a physics lesson at some school for example. Very diverse integrated lessons can be done. This allows the electronic environment and our task, the task of all educational systems is to seek this effective combination and not to delete attendance training with its advantages. The attendance training must remain as the main form of the most desired, the best, and the e-training should complement it where appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u72	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Hristov, you have two minutes for general response.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u73	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Minister, colleagues! Thank you for the answers I've been given. Mr. Minister, I'd like to help you in your hard work evaluating the current practice of remote learning. From the information I have, it's a complete failure. I know it was in an extraordinarily difficult situation, but in general the Bulgarian school was not prepared for such a form of full teaching. Particularly in the school's primary and middle course, I think that this should be avoided for a number of reasons of physical, mental, social and purely content, and propaganda character for the time being. Moreover, I think that so-called remote or e-learning should be very careful in the field of higher education. The other day, my son received a message at the university that their physical exam would take place with a test. I suppose their commercial law exam will take place with push-ups. You understand that this kind of education is just a mockery. It can't be like this. We don't have to be fanatics. It is clear that in an electronic and information environment, in which we, in no way, need to be present and involved, we must use both the resources of one and the other form of training. On the other hand, it is clear that children in the main and middle courses do not have the skills and opportunities they need. I believe that primary education should be extremely careful with the so-called remote and electronic form of learning, as the main problem of our children is the lack of basic skill, unfortunately, reading. And the image environment that you said and which is encouraged by the so-called forms of remote and electronic learning, brings us back to an era before writing. For this reason, I believe that the Bulgarian Ministry of Education should not succumb to, to put it mildly, the thoughtless suggestion and enthusiasm of quite illiterate people who find great enthusiasm in using another form, I would say fashion, education. Clearly, there must be a reasonable balance between one and the other. I will retain the right to follow this problem from now on, and if I have to, I will ask you again how this problem is moving. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u74	Thank you, Mr. Christov. I give the floor for the next question to Mr. Stoyan Bozhinov on the closure of the Primary School of Ekzarh Yosifs in the village of Mihnevo, municipality of Petrich. Mr. Bojinov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u75	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! On 28 May 2020, the primary school of Ekzarh Josif in the village of Mihnevo was closed with a decision of the Municipal Council of Petrich. Your order is required to complete the procedure. In the village of Mihnevo there is mass discontent and indignation due to the closure of the school. The villagers have collected hundreds of signatures against the closure of this 100-year-old school. At school education is at a high level evident from the results of external evaluation. The pedagogical collective is experienced and competent. For the alimony of the school is opened and a donation account. The village of Mihnevo is alive and the number of its population is a constant population of about 1000 inhabitants. The only minus of the elementary school in the village of Mihnevo is the few students who attend the school and this is based on the decision of the Municipal Council. An analysis was carried out that does not correspond to the objective situation in the village, namely after the expected zero school year for the first grade, the villagers say that in the following years are expected 10 Dear Minister, regarding the above and the considerations presented, my questions to you are as follows: Will you stop the procedure for closing the School of Primarys in the village of Mihnevo, Petrich Municipality? Will you postpone the school closing for at least one year in case you do not stop the procedure, taking into account the existing precedent with the school in the village of Polykraishte? Are you going to order the ROU to carry out a new study and to hold a discussion with the residents of the village of Mihnevo, Petrich Municipality, in order to continue the activities of the Primary School? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u76	Thank you, Mr. Bojinov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Bozhinov! The procedure is the so-called bound competence: the municipality can only offer, I can only accept or reject the proposal. When it comes to municipal school, I myself cannot suggest closing a municipal school, respectively the Municipality cannot close it itself. So far, this proposal has not been made to the Ministry of Education. We usually form our opinion, we analyze all the factors after it arrives with us, but since these two cases in the village of Mihnevo sofa Petrich, and the village of Polykraishte, which you mentioned, in the municipality of Gorna Oryahovitsa, have become public, we still looked at them, albeit on the basis of preliminary information. The regional education management of Blagoevgrad also issued an opinion which is part of the procedure. What is the policy of the Ministry before I specifically go to the case of the village of Mihnevo? The policy of the Ministry of Education and Science is in recent years to approach the proposals for optimization of the school network critically. This does not mean rejecting every single proposal. I've rejected eight such proposals, but others I've accepted. Why? Because here are not so financial or other local factors, leading are the interests of children. When a school stays with very few students, it does not allow the possibility of effective socialization, does not allow enough supporting environment, students to get enough knowledge and competence. Yes, the teaching team can do its job, but still in education and socialization children should have the opportunity to interact with other children. Under equal conditions, if they have the opportunity to study in one school with more children, with non-familiar classes, it is better for their educational development, the better and more desirable educational environment. This also means access to more pedagogical specialists, access to more types of support, including interest activities and so on. But each case we analyze it depending on how many children are; secondly, how many kilometers should they travel. This school year we had school, we still have, with four children, but if it closes, they have to travel for an hour and fifteen minutes in mountain terrain, as part of the road is even in poor condition, insufficiently good condition. On the other hand, we have schools where the next school is very close. This is the case with Mihnevo only 3 km away. In the big cities, if you do a reckoning, most of the children travel daily to their school more than 3 km. We also take into account what is the socio-cultural profile of the students. We have students of Roma origin who, by closing the school due to various cultural prejudices, do not go to study in the neighboring village. That's what we've been reading, too, in every case. Regarding the school in Mihnevo, the distance to the next school is only 3 km. Next year the students will be under 35, i.e. under a school bus the big school buses have 35 seats each, and what is most important is what may be different in the case of Polykraishte is that there will be no children in the first grade. Why won't there be children in the first grade, although in the village, as you said, there are 1,000 inhabitants? Because some of the children do not study in the village, their parents chose to study elsewhere. A large part of the parents chose to live elsewhere. The closure of schools is not so much a decision of the local authorities, confirmed or not confirmed by the Minister, it is a decision of the parents to live and their children to study elsewhere, that is to say we have a decision of the parents that has led to this situation. In both cases, what I have received as information, I do not know whether it is true that among those who have signed up for the preservation of the school are also parents whose children do not study in the respective village. They, on the one hand, have made a choice when making a decision in the interests of their children, on the other hand, asking for the preservation of the school. That's not the case in Polykraishte. There are 10 kids in the first grade, there's a problem with what's called secondary segregation. Last week I had the opportunity to answer, secondary segregation is when children of Roma origin increase, parents decide to withdraw their children from this school. This is a phenomenon that, with more work and activity on the part of the pedagogical collective, of the school leadership, can be overcome and we have such examples. In Mihnevo, I say to you again, we have not yet made a decision, but by the criteria we have, according to the forecasts we make, of course, that we will take into account all the opinions, we will get to know all the opinions, if this school is not closed this year, it is very likely that in this situation it will close itself in one, two or three years, that is, we will extend the agony and three years these children will study in a school with a less good educational environment than if they go to the next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u78	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Bojinov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u79	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, you yourself said you were not very sure of what you were given. I assure you that if the school is reserved this year, next year is expected to have 12 children in the first grade, and these children in the following years will still be 10 In my opinion, it is right to wait a year, and it is very important that you either come to the village of Mihnevo, or that you accept people, they have made an Initiative Committee with which they want to continue the fight for this school, which shows that they will not give up, will do everything possible to go to appeal in court, appeal elsewhere. People want their school back. There is another reason for closing this school is the stubbornness of the municipal mayor. This man in the election campaign said he would never close the school in Mihnevo, after six months he went to close it down. That's stubborn. I ask you not to be misled by these passions that are not very good and to go on such a decision. Please, I urge you to meet with the Initiative Committee or come to the village of Mihnevo, to see the beautiful base, the beautiful village is large, there are no Roma. In the same way I assure you that they are not Roma, these people will not go to school in the village of Karnalovo, which is 3 km away. And there's some village honor that won't let them go to the other place, they'll go to Petrich. So please make this effort, come and meet with the Initiative Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u80	Thank you, Mr. Bojinov. Mr. Minister, you have the right to the back of your head.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u81	Just for a little while. Thank you, I'll respond to the request. Of course I'll have a meeting, as I told you, I'll hear the opinions of all parties. I'm telling you again, not us, not the mayor, none of us have an obsession with shutting down schools. The parents' decisions to teach their children elsewhere, to live elsewhere themselves, determine the solutions for optimization of the school network. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u82	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. My fellow Members, I'm adjourned for 10 minutes. You're welcome to come back at 11.50. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u83	Honourable Members, we are continuing the meeting. Next are questions to Mr. Boyl Banov, Minister of Culture. The first question is from the MPs Anastas Popdimitrov, Nona Yotova, Alexander Simov on providing funds for activity in the field of performing arts. Who will present the question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, good afternoon! Dear colleagues, this issue has become a bit bearded, as it is said, because it was asked more than 20 days ago when it was a little different, but not so much, of course, so much. First of all, I'd like to say that the question was a little provocative. It is clear to everyone that the methodology has not been repealed, you have not issued an order for its annulment, but there are issues which, from our point of view, are unclear and we would like to clarify them. As is clear, with its introduction, even before the introduction of the emergency situation, performances, rehearsals, work in theatres were suspended. On 18 March, an order for payment was issued at the state cultural institutes in the field of performing arts, which said: "The only costs of the gross salary and the urgent and irresistible costs in relation to the maintenance of the organizations will be approved. This somehow gave the impression that the work of Methodology is delayed in time, as its main instrument is in fact the financing of the cultural institutes in the field of performing arts, which is based, as we all know, against one lev of a ticket sold with a certain amount. It is surprising to me personally that in the beginning of April you issued the Methodical for this year with a back-up from January 1st, and in my opinion, a situation has been created here where a person, looking at the existing Methodology and, on the other hand, restrictive measures to pay the costs, are somewhat confused. Even more legally with the crisis, but surprisingly from the point of view of this logic, came the decree of the Council of Ministers, introducing an additional component to the Methodology, namely the wage funds, which were paid guaranteed by the end of the emergency situation, if I am not mistaken, 6 months after what it means somewhere in October-November. At the same time, organisations enter this year with an initial approved budget which has not been cancelled. The question follows: will it be realized or not? And, on the other hand, with your first commandment, you have banned the recalculations that, in my opinion, are already extremely few in two months and will not have any serious influence on the organizations, and this will probably in any case result in huge cons in the performing arts system. What's your exit plan from here on out? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u85	Thank you, Mr. Popdimitrov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u86	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Yotova, Mr. Popdimitrov, Mr. Simov! In accordance with the anti-epidemic restrictions as from 13 March 2020, the State Cultural Institutes are not operating and cannot therefore implement the delegated budget system in full. In order to ensure the activity of state performing institutes with Order No 64 of 9 April 2020 to supplement Decree No 31 of 12 February 2016, the Council of Ministers asked: 23a, para. 2 of the Law on the Protection and Development of Culture, such as for the time of the emergency situation and after its cancellation of the state cultural institutes carrying out performance activities, a subsidy shall be granted for the payment of funds under an additional component for restricted activity in the amount of gross wages, the charge of the contributions due from 13 March 2020 and up to six months after its cancellation until the month in which the level of revenue for the budget programme is reached, for the same period of last year for each State Cultural Institute. According to the methodology for allocation of funds under art. 23, para. 1, t. 1 of the Law on the Protection and Development of Culture for 2020 in the State Cultural Institutes in the field of Performing Arts, a recalculation of the payable subsidy for the first quarter and monthly until the end of the year is carried out. This allowed the stage institutes to receive a subsidy for realised revenues from sold tickets for the first two months and until mid-March. With the lifting of the country's emergency situation, state cultural institutes in the field of performing arts gradually and gradually recover their activities in accordance with the new orders of the Minister of Health, related to limited eligibility for cultural events in outdoors and indoors. Order No RD-01-277 of 26 May 2020 allows the Minister of Health to present performances and concerts in halls where there are up to 30% of the total capacity and in summer theaters and outdoor stage spaces in employment 50% of the total capacity. In accordance with the requirements for limited eligibility for cultural events in open and indoor areas, a number of theatre and musical institutes have restored their activity in their halls to specially adapted outdoor scenes around their buildings with a suitable repertoire for these conditions. Despite the limitations of eligibility, the opening of halls, summer theaters and open scenes enables stage institutes to present their works to the audience and to realise revenue. The methodology for the recalculation of the subsidy shall be in accordance with art. 23a, para. 2 of the Law on Protection and Development of Culture will apply to each individual institute from the moment the relevant institute reaches its revenue for the same month of the previous year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u87	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Popdimitrov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! You have read the technical side of the issue, namely the regulatory framework that governs it. My question was a little more specific from the point of view of this, the creation of summer scenes in some sense contradicts your methodology, as it has special requirements for the removal of the product from the place where it was created because of the deterioration of the artistic qualities of its production, to pay a smaller percentage, say, of the tickets actually sold. That's one. Secondly, I did not understand, as it is clear that the decree, which says until last year's revenue is reached, is a cause of perduta, it will not be possible. No one will reach last year's earnings after no one has been playing for real since mid-March, but it's just beginning with some timid attempts. Summer vacations are coming, there are no funds for new productions, as the Decree states that the funds can only be for urgent expenses. The organization is currently building up a serious minus in a large part of the theaters, and for music institutes I think everyone is already on some minus. My question is, what's going to happen to this minus at the end of the year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u89	Thank you. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u90	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Yotova, Mr. Popdimitrov, Mr. Simov! It was clearly said in my reply a little while ago, and clearly you didn't understand it, to clarify. The methodology will work again when an institute reaches its levels for the relevant month for the previous year and not for the whole year before that. It is clear that this year, both we and the world are working under slightly stranger conditions. It is clear that the state will take care of the state cultural institutes categorically, regardless of the lack of opportunity at all for a very long time, and now with a partial appearance, it has given the opportunity not to fire artists and not to fire employees in the state performing arts. So, again, I stress when, for the month concerned, some Institute "September" or October, when the normal process is already underway, hopefully, and the return of viewers to the salons reaches its level from the previous year for this month, it will be a sign that things have normalized and that this institute can switch again to methodology. All this has been done for security, stability and the possibility of development, without having a concussion in the system. This year will not be taken as the basis in any way, it is impossible. This year, our great goal is to preserve those working in the performing arts, to preserve the arts, and at the moment when I hope it is autumn, things start to normalize and reach the levels for the respective month of September, October or November compared to last year, they will switch to methodology because for them this is the better option in which they may reinvest. We've done everything in order to keep the system stable, and that's what it is. This was one of the government's most important acts to combat the consequences of the CIVID-19. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u91	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question is from the MPs Anastas Popdimitrov, Nona Yotova and Alexander Simov on ensuring safety in returning to normal mode of work in artistic circles. Who's gonna ask the question? Mr. Simov, come in, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u92	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, this question was asked a long time ago, but I think it's okay to discuss his subject. Our question is regarding the order of the Minister of Health, which allowed the performances indoors: what measures did you take as Minister of Culture to ensure the safety of the artistic, technical and administrative composition of the organizations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u93	Thank you. Mr. Minister, please answer this insidious question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Yotova, dear Mr. Popdimitrov, dear Mr. Simov! In connection with your question, I inform you the following: all state cultural institutes in the field of performing arts carry out their activities in compliance with the anti-epidemic requirements according to the orders and other acts of the Minister of Health. According to Order No RD-01-277 of 26 May 2020, the Minister of Health is allowed to hold mass cultural and entertainment events. Theatres, concerts, stage events, classes of dance, creative, musical art and others. Participants in each cultural event shall be obliged to comply with the orders and other acts of the Minister of Health introducing anti-epidemic measures. In accordance with the orders issued by the Minister of Health for the introduction of temporary anti-epidemic measures for the period of the exceptional epidemic situation in the Ministry of Culture, methodological guidance has been developed for all fields of activity in the field of culture, including stage arts. On the basis of orders No RD-01-277 of 26 May 2020 and No RD-01-287 of 30 May 2020 of the Minister of Health, the Ministry of Culture prepared, agreed and published on the website of the Ministry recommendations for the protection of employees in order to establish a good organisation of the activities in the course of anti-epidemic measures. The Ministry of Culture held meetings with the directors of the theatre and music institutes, which discussed the possibilities and conditions for effective creative activity under the conditions of COVID-19. As a result of the talks held in the state performing institutes, internal rules for safe operation under the conditions of an emergency epidemic environment, in line with the instructions drawn up by the Ministry of Culture, have been developed and implemented. The restructuring and preparation of the repertoire programmes in the stage institutes is in line with the requirements of limited eligibility for the conduct of cultural events in outdoors and indoors, mostly monospectracli, chamber concerts and performances, with the necessary for the stage performance of the artistic composition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u95	You have the floor for a line, Mr. Simov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u96	Dear Minister, Mr. Simeonov guessed a bit. It's a tricky question, but in what way?! It's enough for a little person to open the newspapers, it's enough to call him a few people to alert him to this problem and to see that there is a problem with these requirements in theatres, because due to different specific requirements actors have to play distance and so on. In many theaters there is information that actors have been forced to sign declarations whether they agree with these requirements and were forced to sign declarations and people who disagree with them. I consider this to be an attempt to use the measures to adjust the dramatic compositions against each other, which is extremely unpleasant in this situation, especially in view of the fact that the cultural institutions were ultimately most affected by this coronacrisis, first closed, last opened, continue to have problems. That is why I wish that if you could take a line, explain to us how this will be overcome, because I think that such behavior does not go to those administrative details that you have read about as something successful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u97	Thank you, Mr. Simov. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Yotova, Mr. Popdimitrov, Mr. Simov! No one could have been an actor, director, scenographer or person of the technical staff working at the state cultural institutes being forced to operate at the moment. Higher are the orders of the Minister of Health, which concern the established norms of existence at this time, as are you in this Chamber, including you. These are personal acts. We have had two meetings of the ministers of culture of the whole of Europe, there is no cardinal solution, there is no hypothesis in which the artists themselves can be given the opportunity to comply with the anti-epidemic measures characteristic not only for Bulgaria, but also for the whole of Europe. So if you have a signal for someone who has been forced, driven against their desire to sign a declaration, or to go on stage, or to work, please hand them over to me, I will personally take attitude. Our instructions to all our cultural institutes are that at this time the state has undertaken to guarantee them. Since we cannot guarantee them in full security a healthy performance on the stage. We have given the opportunity to have events, and the recommendations are: to be monospectaks or with few artists with appropriate organization of dressing rooms, a collision of streams not to have for the viewers is even safer than for the artists themselves. So, again, if there are any such specific signals, please hand them over to me, as we have agreed with the Union of Artists, with the Union of Music and Dancemakers, to protect their members as well as us. No one can be forced on stage right now! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u99	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. If you could sum it up: art wants sacrifice. The next question is from the MPs Georgi Gokov, Nona Yotova, Aleksandar Simov and Anastas Popdimitrov about the future of the cinema building Who's gonna ask the question? Mr. Gokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Minister, Bulgaria is famous for its ancient history. We have an extremely rich cultural and historical heritage and we can brag about it in the world. However, we have one in our closer history and one of these sights, if I may say so, is located on 26 Maria Luisa Boulevard. This is the oldest cinema in Eastern Europe "Modern Theatre." I assume you know his story. It was built in 1907 on a project of the native architect Dimitar Nachev and on the initiative of the then wealthy Italian entrepreneur Carlo Vakaro in the style of Vienna Secession. On 4 December 1908 the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2015/1333. Not more than 15 years after the first screenings of the Lumiere brothers in Paris, Sofia opens the first cinema in Bulgaria and the second in Europe with 600 seats. Here in January 1915 was held the premiere of the first Bulgarian feature film. "Bulgaran is a gallant, by the patriot of Bulgarian cinema Vasil Gendov. All this makes it the smallest history of cinema. At the moment, however, this unique building, in my opinion and my colleagues, is crumbling, although it has the status of a cultural monument of local importance. Unfortunately, she's in private hands. I say sadly that it is in private hands, because the owners obviously do not support it, and the lack of maintenance is apparent by the fact that its facade is crumbling and whole pieces of plaster fall. But this, in addition to creating a risk for citizens passing through there, is at least a sign of lack of care towards this cultural and historical heritage. In this regard, we ask you to answer the questions: do you find it an important cultural and historical heritage in the cinema building of Modern Theatre? Will you and your Ministry of Activity demonstrate to make it possible to preserve and preserve this important building for the history of Bulgarian cinema and Bulgarian spirituality? What action will you take in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u101	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u102	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of Parliament, Dear Mrs. Yotova, Mr. Gokov, Mr. Simov, Mr. Popdimitrov! Cinema "Modern Theatre" Sofia is a real estate cultural value in the category "local importance." In 2017, the Ministry of Culture submitted a request for a change of status and an increase in its category even of national importance. In December 2017, an on-site inspection was carried out by the regional inspector and the Directorate General for Cultural Heritage Protection. A constant protocol on the general technical condition of the building, which gives instructions for emergency temporary strengthening of the building and the appointment of a commission under art. 73, para. 1 of the Cultural Heritage Act of Sofia Municipality. By letter dated February 2018, the National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage informed the Ministry of Culture about the start of work on a procedure for drawing up a proposal from the Director of the Institute for Status Change based on collected and systematized archive data and documentation for the site, again I say about a change to national importance. In March 2018, a commission was appointed under art. 73, para. 1 of the Cultural Heritage Act. The owner's lawyer did not provide full access to the building and the right to take pictures of the site. With an opinion from August 2018, the Ministry of Culture refused to agree on a previous volume device, site survey, reconstructions, transformation of existing cinema in a shopping centre with shops and offices and reconstruction of roof. The submitted design documentation does not meet the requirements of Ordinance No 4 of 21 December 2016 of the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and is not prepared by persons or under the direct direction of persons registered under art. 165 of the Cultural Heritage Act. In September 2018 at the National Institute for Real Estate Cultural Heritage was introduced a project for restoration of the façade of the building of real estate cultural property Tsanko Tserkovski. On 12 October 2018, a commission under art. 73, para. 1 of the Cultural Heritage Act. At a regular meeting of the committee is discussed the state of the building, a constant protocol is drawn up again, corresponding instructions are given for conservation and restoration of the building with specified deadlines for implementation. In accordance with the instructions given on January 10, 2019 in the field of Architecture and Urban Planning, Sofia Municipality received a letter from the owners of the building asking for an opinion on the need for coordination and investment projects and the issue of a construction solution, for the restoration of the facade of the cinema building Tsanko Cerkovski. The documents provided and the project are agreed with an opinion of the Ministry of Culture on 17 December 2018. The presented project provides: carrying out conservation and restoration activities of the main façade of the building on the boulevard of the Princess Maria Luisa and its restoration in a form as close as possible to the authentic one. Two stages are provided for the intervention in the facade and the first achieves technical, restoration and aesthetic completion. The second stage, which is not the subject of the submitted project, provides for further intervention on the exterior relating to the return of the original type of the building and its new functional purpose. The construction of the building is not intended to be affected, the carrying out of removal activities, the displacement of existing walls and the loads in them are not changed. By letter dated 17 January 2019 Sofia Municipality informed the owners of the building that the above activities fall within the scope of art. 151, para. 1, t. 1 of the Law on Construction in the Area and they are not required to issue a building permit. According to the provisions of art. 151, para. 2 of the Law on construction of the territory the activities of real cultural values within their borders and security areas for which construction permits are not required according to the order of the same shall be implemented in accordance with the requirements of the Law on Cultural Heritage. In the light of the above and in accordance with art. 83a, para. 7 of the Cultural Heritage Act, the contracting entity of the conservation and restoration activities of the main façade of the building of the former Modern Theatre and the Sofia Municipality, the Ministry of Culture and the National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage, is obliged to notify in writing the beginning and completion of implementation within 10 days of its completion. At present, the Ministry of Culture has not notified the initiation of conservation and restoration activities of the site. The time limits for the launch of conservation restoration works in the building of the Modern Theatre, laid down in the Constitutional Protocol of the Commission under art. 73, para. 1 of the Law on Cultural Heritage, starting from the date of the notification of Sofia Municipality. In the event of failure to comply with the specified requirements, the owners of the building are subject to administrative criminal liability under the Cultural Heritage Act and under the Law for the construction of Sofia Municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u103	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Gokov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable Members of the House! Mr. Minister, I must say from the stand that I am satisfied with the answer. In general, I am not satisfied with the result, of course, but I will also comment on it. I am pleased that it is on the attention of the Ministry of Culture, perhaps earlier, but you have started since 2017, and that successive actions have been taken on conservation, on the preservation of this building. You're talking about emergency reinforcement, I hear about the front outside. I don't want to think about the state of the entire building inside, because what you see outside is not very pleasant, and I guess the inside is the same. I don't know what the possibilities are for this "You will tell the State and the Ministry of Culture to influence this owner because it impressed me and what you said the owner didn't allow representatives of the Ministry of Culture or who are authorized on this issue to take even pictures inside by not letting them in. And how, since January 10, 2019, there has been a project... By the way, I'm sorry, but I didn't realize who would pay for this renovation....the owners or the state? If the owners had to pay for it, it would be a very difficult job, in my opinion, to reach an agreement with them, because if they had a wish, and without a reminder from the state, they would have done so. The administrative penalties you are referring to, if they do not comply with the provisions of the Ministry of Culture, I suppose, are of the same size as any other administrative penalties and will not affect the person who violated the order with a discipline. These punishments won't scare him, because I think the size is extremely small. Is there any other possibility, Mr. Minister, of affecting these people to repair the condition of the building? Is it possible for the state to intervene with, for example, a proposal to buy them back to the building, because I think I am not a Sofian, but for Sofians this must be a sign building. When I say about Sofians, probably for all Bulgarians is a sign building, and for Bulgarian cinema should be a sign building. Its acquisition by the State... Sorry to delay your time, but last sentence. This, by lifting the status of a building of national importance for culture, would benefit the preservation and preservation of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u105	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u106	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of Parliament, Dear Mrs. Yotova, Mr. Gokov, Mr. Simov, Mr. Popdimitrov!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u107	I'm sorry, are you a sexist? You always miss Mrs. Yotova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u108	Who am I missing? I always start with her, Mr. Chairman. I always start with her.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u109	I'm sorry, then.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u110	Please. The building is extremely valuable not only with its architecture, you are right. It brings a lot of spirit, a lot of history and is key for Sofia city and in general for the development of Bulgarian cinema and Bulgarian cinema industry. Unfortunately, as you mentioned several times, she is private. The theme of redemption of private property should eventually come from the private owner. We can't approach... The State's approach to a private owner asking for ownership is ultimately some kind of pressure. The owner didn't express such a hypothesis. If he expressed himself, I think the state would have quite serious motives to proceed with such an action. From now on, what we can do is provoke the building to be stored. They don't allow us inside to give national importance, but at least outside to be safe and beautify this key central place in our capital. The administrative consequences and fines are not so small. They can amount to 100 thousand. lv. and upwards, for failure to comply with the instructions of the Committee on Art. 73, so we keep moving. It's gonna be a long fight. Going back in the years, my impressions are that it's very long. We will consistently and methodically defend: firstly, that the building in no way be changed, preserved in its authentic form, fixed as much as possible. Either way, we will penetrate at some point and give her the national meaning she deserves. Yes, unfortunately, it can't happen in a day, in a month, but methodically and purposefully we will defend this building to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u111	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We move on to questions to the Minister of Energy Ms. Temenuzhka Petkova. The first question is from the MPs Vassil Antonov and Chavdar Velinov on the procedure for selecting a strategic investor for the NPP project "Belene." Here you go, Mr. Velinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, it is clear from your reply to our parliamentary question that on 29 April 2020 the candidates in the procedure for selecting a strategic investor for the realization of the NPP have been sent the Information Memorandum for the Project in order to start work on preparation of a binding offer. In your opinion, in order to initiate this procedure, it is necessary to provide physical access to the Project Information Room. In this regard, I ask you to respond: within what deadlines, given the new pandemic conditions in this situation, it will be possible to provide physical access for companies to the Information Hall? When, in your opinion, could the procedure for implementing the Decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria of 7 June 2018 and Decision No 447 of 29 June 2018 of the Council of Ministers for the construction of the NPP of Belene? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u113	Thank you. Madam Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Velinov, dear Mr. Antonov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! With regard to the question you have raised regarding the current procedure for selecting a strategic investor in relation to the NPP project.Belene, in implementation of the decision of the National Assembly and the subsequent decisions of the Council of Ministers, I can inform you of the following: the procedure relating to the selection of a strategic investor has in practice never been stopped. As you know, according to the National Assembly's decision, the Minister of Energy had a commitment to develop such a procedure. It has been developed and contains the relevant stages that it needs to go through. At present, we are at the appropriate stage to conclude a confidentiality agreement, which is a mandatory condition for companies to receive the Information Memorandum on the Project, which contains all the basic information relating to both the project itself and the market in the region with the country's legal framework, with the European nuclear energy requirements. This document, after signing the agreement on confidentiality, has already been provided to the five companies that are included in the short list related to the implementation of the NPP project "Belene" and the potential opportunity for us to choose a strategic investor. The next step, which is very important to proceed to the stage of preparation and presentation of binding offers, is that these five companies have access to the Project Information Hall. This information room can be imagined very conditionally. These are several computers in separate rooms in the National Electric Company, which contain all the information related to the Project, the technical project, respectively the permission of the European Commission, the permits that the project has, all the information that will be needed by the participants in order to obtain information and insight and prepare their binding offer accordingly. Within the coming days, we are literally about to have a teleconferencing conversation with all five participants included in the short list, and the purpose of this conversation will be for us to be able to inform each other about the epidemic situation in the respective countries. You know, these investors are from Russia, China, South Korea, the United States of America, France. These are all countries that, like us, have and continue to have some of them restrictive travel measures related to the CIVID-19 crisis. So after this conversation we will be able to familiarize these five companies with the pandemic situation in the country, with the requirements that exist at the present time, and accordingly they will provide information regarding when they, according to the conditions in their countries, could come to Bulgaria and get acquainted with the information room, take all the basic information they need and proceed to the next stage related to the preparation of the binding offer. It has not stopped the whole process for a moment, nor for a moment has it stopped the implementation of the stages of the procedure.. There was just a slight delay in terms of providing the physical access of representatives of these companies to come and get acquainted on site with all the information. What I can say as further information about the procedure is that all five companies have confirmed their intention and willingness to participate and submit binding offers for the NPP project. I believe that this is good news, a positive signal which, hopefully, will enable us to successfully implement this procedure under conditions that are best for Bulgaria and fully in line with the parameters that Parliament has set for us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u115	Thank you, Mrs. Petkova. Mr. Antonov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u116	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Ministers, Dear Mrs. Petkova, Dear Members of the National Assembly! Mrs. Petkova, to a large extent today you say that the procedure has not been interrupted until now, which is conducted under Decision No 447 of 29 June 2018 of the Council of Ministers and the National Assembly Decision of 7 June. But actually, in order to ask our question about procedures, this is the information that has appeared in foreign information agencies that the procedure has stopped or in a better way, let's say, has been postponed. Now you declare that it is not stopped, but to some extent the fairy tale begins to resemble the story of the false shepherd or we very much do not wish it to resemble and end in this way. It is very good today in your duplicate to commit to the date on which the procedures for the construction of the nuclear power plant are completed and, respectively, when does the physical construction of the plant begin? Why? Because there's been a last period of three months of interruption due to the pandemic. Several speeches, including those of the National Assembly, give us prerequisites to believe that once again the issue of the construction of the headquarters is in the background. And there's something good that's happened these days. The main thing is the European Union recovery plan. The amount granted to Bulgaria is over 15 billion. BGN, from which amount we have to return 3.3 billion. lv. for a period of 30 years. This money is intended for recovery, and it is exclusively for innovative technologies and industries. More innovative production than the strategic site construction of NPP Belene.I do not see what could be in Bulgaria! Of course, there are other important objects in energy that need to be linked. But given that only in recent days the Bulgarian government purchased shares of First Investment Bank, came up with a solution for the construction of petrol stations, the use of excise warehouses, the renovation of blocks and the separation of billions of levs for their renovation, a fundamental question is asked: why and is there an opportunity in the new situation for Bulgaria to keep for itself at least 51% of the nuclear power plant? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] And if you'll allow another half a minute, Mr. Chairman, I'll say why. Because after the accounts that we have made, we believe that the power plant of Belene could start somewhere at the end of 2022, or, say, 2023, the time limit for documentation, on projects, on the construction of the first block of the existing two energy blocks, which are on the site of Belene, is 60 months and 72 months respectively for the second block, or that would say that 2029 " 2030" Bulgaria will have nuclear power station of Belene. Given that every year it separates from the government a billion, two billion for various projects that we cannot compare to Belene, it could not only be 51%, the entire plant could keep it. You know much better. Firstly, because we will be able to keep prices at lower levels, and, secondly, Bulgaria really has a plant and not have other companies. Thank you very much, excuse me for the long...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u117	Thank you, Mr. Antonov. Minister Petkova, you have the floor for a farewell coat. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Antonov, dear Mr. Velinov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First, regarding the comparison with the false shepherd. We have always been extremely open and frank on all matters concerning the government's work. As far as the NPP Project is concerned, you know that everything related to it has started with the National Assembly. The Minister of Energy under this Decision is committed to informing you periodically. Whenever there are such grounds, I have informed Parliament, so there is nothing hidden, nothing covered. I don't think it's right to articulate in public space, that the procedure has stopped and, you see, the project has remained in the background. On the contrary, there is no way in the context of a global pandemic, a period in which flights are both limited and moving people, to expect that the teams of these companies from China, from the United States of America, from France, from Russia and South Korea will be able to come to Bulgaria and get acquainted with all the information about the project. The need to provide physical access to the information room is linked to the fact that the information contained in this information room is, by its nature, specific, confidential, sensitive information that cannot be sent online so that companies can get acquainted with it. There were such inquiries by the companies, but we answered accordingly that this thing was not possible. What was possible to do electronically was a fact. We electronically signed the confidentiality agreements, e-mailed the information memorandum, but from when the binding offer period will start depends largely on when these companies will be able to provide their representatives to come to Bulgaria and start working on this topic. This will also be the purpose of the conversation, which will be literally in the coming days, so that we can inform each other about the first possible date when this can happen. As soon as we have information, I will have an obligation to introduce you and report to you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u119	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We move on to the group of questions to the Minister of Environment and Water Mr. Emil Dimitrov Simeonov. He will answer a question of the MPs Valeri Zablyanov, Evdokia Asenova, Lubomir Bonev, Ivan Ibrishimov and Atanas Kostadinov regarding the re-publishing of the Draft Rules for amendment of the Rules of Procedure for the Construction and Activities of Regional Environmental and Water Inspections. You have a say in the matter, Mr. Bonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister Kralev, dear colleagues! Mr. Minister, on 23 March a Draft Rules for amending the Rules of Procedure for the Construction and Activity of the Regional Environmental and Water Inspection was published on the Public Consultation Portal of the Council of Ministers. A decision on this project was not voted by the Council of Ministers and on 20 May 2020, a draft amending the same Rules on the Construction and Activity of Regional Inspections on Environment and Water was published on the Public Consultation Portal. Both published projects provide for the closure of the regional inspection based in the town of Pernik. The reports to the projects in no way justify the need to close the working structure of the RIEW city of Pernik. The real reasons for the proposed changes are not clear, nor the real and measurable objectives that are being set, but even less expected results of the implementation of the act. With the closure of RIEW Pernik, you leave the two district centers Pernik and Kyustendil centers visible from the reports, with extreme intensity of sites with a specific subject of activity without the Regional Environmental Protection Inspectorate. In this regard, Mr. Minister, I ask you to give us a reasoned answer as to what are the real reasons requiring the closure of RIEW Pernik?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u121	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u122	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Asenova, Mr. Zablyanov, Mr. Bonev, Mr. Ibrishimov, Mr. Kostadinov! This is a fourth in a row issue here in the Chamber on the same subject. There were six questions in the committees. I'm explaining the same thing everywhere, but since there's a question from you, I'll answer it. I would like to inform the following: In accordance with art. 14, para. 5 of the Environmental Protection Act, the number, territorial scope of activity, functions and structure of RIEW and the powers of their directors shall be determined by rules issued by the Minister of Environment and Water. With the announced for public discussion a change of the Rules is proposed to be carried out by RIEW Pernik, in RIEW Sofia, such as RIEW Sofia, with administrative center Sofia, will be with territorial scope including areas: Sofia-city, Sofia-district, Pernik and Kyustendil. The reasons for the changes are related to optimization of the structure of regional inspections, as well as Sofia covers the territory of Sofia district, Sofia-city, where the number of investment proposals under the Law on Environmental Protection is greatly increased. In the Annual Report of RIEW Sofia, for 2019 there are problems regarding the implementation of procedures for Environmental Impact Assessment and Environmental Assessment, which are mainly due to increased investor interest in the territory of Sofia-City and Sofia-district, which also provides for the processing of a large number of files, investment proposals, plans, programs. The insufficient available expertise, given the volume of work, creates a prerequisite for delay. A problem is the ruling within the statutory deadlines, given the proportion of experts in the relevant administrative unit to the number of input documents and workload. The control activity provides for the necessity of taking timely measures and actions by the territorial authority, exercising multiple powers under a number of laws, the Waste Management Act, the Air Cleanliness Act, the Water Act and other special regulations in the field of environmental legislation. The total number of staff in RIEW Sofia is currently 46 employees, which is insufficient to ensure efficiency and efficiency in the work. The territorial scope of the RIEW is covered by the municipalities and districts with the administrative center Pernik and Kyustendil, with the exception of Kocherinovo and Rila. RIEW Pernik controls a highly industrialized region on the territory of RIEW Pernik. They also carry out high-risk sites with relevant permits, requiring precise and enhanced preventive current and subsequent controls. Part of the businesses operating in the territory of the two areas have a specific subject-matter which requires continuous control and the expertise that carries it out is insufficient. The total number of RIEW staff is 29. The above justifies the need for the merger of the two regional inspections and the unification of the personnel with a view to optimizing the preventive activities of RIEW Sofia, and ensuring the control activities of RIEW Sofia and Pernik, including the distribution of the administrative capacity of the control authorities in proportion to the economic profile of the checked operators. The regulatory change allows for the creation of exported jobs, thereby allocating administrative capacity appropriately and according to the specific administrative need. The change will allow experts to control the body of power with its headquarters in another area in the case of Sofia, and over the years it has been proven that this form of management is responsible and corresponding to the workload of the region. The process of changes is currently being implemented in order to ensure maximum control of the implementation of environmental legislation, as well as improvement of the control activity itself. The draft act shall be submitted for the second time to a public consultation within the meaning of art. 26 of the Law on Legislative Acts. Their initial implementation was during the emergency situation announced in the Republic of Bulgaria by decision of 13 March 2020 of the National Assembly. In view of the past state of emergency, the administrative authority considers that it is necessary to ensure maximum openness in the process of adopting the legislative act and therefore enables citizens to re-acquaint themselves with the Project, as well as with additional reasons on the Report for the reasons for the change made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u123	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Come in, Mr. Zablyanov. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u124	Dear Mr. Chairman, Ministers, Members of the National Assembly! Minister Dimitrov, we cannot be satisfied with the answer because you read us part of your Deputy Minister Krasimir Zhivkov's report. I am not even sure that you have seen enough of the arguments and there is no way to admire from the beginning such a classic bureaucratic approach without the desire to see into the real problems that are solved by the structure of RIEW Pernik. What arguments did you come up with? To my great amazement, they are also included in the report in question that, in order to improve the work of RIEW Sofia, the RIEW is closed. This is, in general, the first argument that you have provided us with the required capacity of RIEW Sofia because of the increased volume of work, and therefore the structure in Pernik is closed and its experts are transferred to Sofia. That, I'm sorry, is not based on any solid logic. That is, we deprive two districts of expertise in environmental and water protection by transferring them to Sofia because this is where the work has grown! Instead of trying to increase the administrative capacity of RIEW Pernik, which would be the logical management action, you are doing the opposite! The second question, which raises the disconcertion of the territorial distribution. In RIEW Sofia, you include 35 municipalities. You will explain how operationally better to manage this structure without exported experts on the ground. Here your proposal provides for the creation of exported expert jobs. But why are you shutting down the structure to make exported expert jobs?! Or to have, as they say in Russian classical literature, a meaningless movement on the levels of administration, or to solve other objectives and tasks? And that is why the question to you is to finally enlighten us about these deep-seated motives which cannot be seen in the report of Deputy Minister Krasimir Zhivkov. Because the motives we're reading here really are becoming a bit of an amazement. Six municipalities from Pernik, seven from Kyustendil and unknown why Rila and Kocherinovo are being taken out, which are currently, of course, still municipalities within Kyustendil District! What is the logic of two municipalities from Kyustendil district to be taken out and not in this structural change that you are proposing?! Well, there's not even one comma on this issue here, including in this report, which is written, I told you with what type of argument, not to qualify it further. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Mr. Chairman. What are you offering us? You are offering us a structural change motivated by the personnel shortage in RIEW Sofia, by closing the RIEW in an area that is industrialized, post-industrialized, with closed mines, with heavy industrialization problems. You know it better than I do, there is no point in putting arguments in this direction. There is no reasonable argument for the closure of RIEW Pernik. You leave the entire Southwestern region of Bulgaria and transfer all the expert activities to Sofia, concentrating activities in Sofia, in full contrast with various exotic changes for administrative reform in Bulgaria. There were, you remember, how to export activities from the ministries in the district, in the district cities. What is done in Bulgaria? Do we centralize, decentralize, facilitate the work of structures or complicate it? What is the basis of this proposal? From what you've shown us, apart from an unconnected administrative formal motivation, nothing arises. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u125	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u126	And I can't be indifferent. The reasons I'm not going to tell you exactly from the stand, they started on my second day of work, and I went around all the factories with 10 years of problems that someone had forgotten to solve over time. Why did I do that? Well, because I've decided that the two structures that are so active are obviously not effective in many new tasks that are needed. I was trying to determine what was better. I tried to determine whether Pernik should go to Kyustendil because there are no RIEWs in Kyustendil, and Pernik serves him or Pernik to come to Sofia, and really two people will not work in their old places. The structure remains there, they remain in the building where they are, in the region where they are, in the state in which they are, but will help each other. I have tried to determine what is the best strategy and, burying myself in the past of the Ministry of Environment, I have seen a regulation on the design of the activities of regional environmental and water inspections since 2004, which then the government of the BSP, you know which gentleman represented and was chairman, has defined a structure not from 16, but from 14 RIEWs. The government then applied this successful structure, which I copy from BSP: Sofia-district... I will not list the area; Sofia-city.. Sofia Municipality; Pernik.. Breznik, Tran, Kovachevtsi, Zemen, Radomir; Kyustendil Kyustendil, Treklyano, Nevelino, Bobov dol, Sapareva Banya, Dupnitsa and Boboshevo. Learning from your extensive experience and your rich past, I felt that this structure must be restored again. They even had one less RIEW back then. I want to explain to everyone that this question is asked four times here and about six times in committees. It has all become clear, but I have to explain it once again: there have been many regions and regions in the country. They don't match the number of RIEWs. The RIEWs are currently 16, and, as you know, the administrative and territorial division is 27, 28 with Sofia-city, so this is a procedure that has been used in the past. I learned from BSP's extensive experience and apply it now. I blend them both, they'll stay in Pernik, they'll check on Pernik, like they've done before. Nothing changes, except two people won't be principals and they'll have to change their business cards. But this is a very big problem for someone who for the fourth time in the room and for the sixth time outside the room asked me. That's the reason! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u127	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question to Mr. Minister of Environment and Water is from Mr. Krasimir Jankov on the realization of Project No BG16:1OR002-1.0006 Varna, Stage 2 - Master collectors 3 and 4. Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u128	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question is about the rehabilitation of the project "Preparation and implementation of a project for development of the waste water infrastructure in the agglomeration of the resort complex "Golden Sands", Varna Municipality. Mr. Minister, in October 2019 a partial construction and reconstruction of the sewerage network in rural education started. Varna, Stage 2 - Master collectors 3 and 4, namely preparation and implementation of the project for development of the waste water infrastructure in the agglomeration of the resort complex Golden Sands. The construction site is located in the resort complex of Chaika. "Boyan Bachvarov" and "Boyan Bachvarov" Str. Dr. Lazarov. It is part of the Panorama road to a stop.Journalist, where many hotels and other tourist sites are located. The project lasts 180 days, i.e. until April 2020. The object is currently incomplete and the section is closed for passage. The track is only covered with dirt, not asphalted, on the side abounds with spills and construction waste. At the moment, no activities are being carried out along the route. The local community and business discontent are deepening worries that the closed track, the closed road further aggravates the already emerging weak tourist season. Mr. Minister, I ask you to answer the question what are the reasons why the project has not been finalised because it is under the Operational Programme of the Environment and I assume that you have identified the reason, but the more important question is when will it be completed? I know that the contracting entity is the Municipality of Varna, but in view of your commitment as Head of Operational Programme, I engage you, with your conviction in your emphasis, upon completion of this site. I'll leave you with a visual of what the construction site looks like right now and the closed road. [[Provides photo material.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u129	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u130	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's nice to see those signs, too. To explain what the Operational Programme is 2014 - 2020 - because 2020 means that it is this year and it is coming to an end. All of a sudden, all of a sudden, all of a sudden, all of a sudden, all of a sudden, all of a sudden, all of a sudden, all of a sudden, all of a sudden, all of a sudden, all of a sudden, they think their date is guilty, not their inactions, their procedures, delayed orders and so on. It is very easy when funds are provided under this programme by previous governments, by previous ministers, to absorb them, given, won the object, and when there is a problem on the site, excuse me, the Ministry is still guilty. By this logic then you should not give money to Varna because you cannot master the project! Maybe there's something else that got in the way! From this moment on, I am sure that by the end of the year all who have failed to get money under the operational programme for their reasons the money in Bulgaria has been here since 2014 and have been available to everyone, will look for any reasons to apologize with ministries or with someone else or with a judicial system. The truth is that every year objects are defined for the moment, it is known that there is a critical date. If we do not master them by that date, then our Union holds them back, so we want all objects to go on and on. Specifically on your subject. The technical project for the construction of partial reconstruction and rehabilitation of the channel network. Varna, Stage 2 "Master sewer collectors 3 and 4" as part of the Project "Preparation for the implementation of the project for the development of the waste water infrastructure in the agglomeration resort complex "Golden sands" (Golden sands), Varna Municipality, financed under Priority Axis 1: "Guideway" of the Operational Programme "Environment" 2014 "2020" has been drawn up in accordance with the provisions of the Golden Sands Complex and the requirements of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, reflected in their respective letters from December 2017. The same is approved and coordinated by the Chief architect of Varna Municipality on 2 April 2018 and has been granted a building permit in force on 26 April 2018. The presence of a registered landslide with the location of the resort complex "Sunny Day" above the Sea Club, actively along the route of the Master Collector 3 and close to the pilot structure No 2 on its south side, as well as the great depth of the installation of the sewers, determines the technology provided for in the technical project for the execution of the collectors with a certain number of mounting shafts. It was a project, it was approved, it was set to run. During the implementation of the construction works on branch 3, at the beginning of March 2020, huge rock pieces at different depths were found in the geological base. For the drilling machine it is virtually impossible to overcome the rock pieces, as well as to lay the pipes without excavation due to non-homogenity of the soil structure. As a result, there is a need for an amendment, the approval of the design documentation in the pit-free part, giving a technical solution for the excavation of the sewage at a design depth of more than 7 m, and without compromising the pilot structure built on site to strengthen the landslide area. In this regard, a change of investment intention under art. 154 of the Law on Construction in the Area, preparation of an amendment of the Project in relation to an opinion of the projector for the continuation of the construction works on the sewer branches 3 and 4 on the street of Boyan Bachvarov with the issued Order of 8 June 2020 to supplement a building permit issued on 4 April 2018. At the moment, the implementation of the construction works has been restored and the deadline for completion of the site has been set by the consultant of the construction supervision, on 30 October 2020. In addition, the deadline for implementation of the activities under the whole project of Varna Municipality is 31 December 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u131	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Yankov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u132	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, you have answered fully about this particular project, which is not reassuring, because I gave you a picture of it, you can see for yourself what state the road is in. This is the panoramic road for Golden Sands to the Journalist station. The new deadline for the implementation of the project and the restoration of the road network means that then there will be an opportunity to use the road? you say, 30 October 2020. This is after the summer season is over. It's not comforting for people who live, who expect tourists, provided the whole road is compromised. A delay of more than six months does not justify those who perform. On the contrary, you say: the work has been restored, and I confirm to you with all responsibility that construction workers have no more than three months, and this time could have been used and the road for the summer season not to be found in this wretched situation. The very fact that this area is a landslide zone, but it is secured by a pilot structure, has also foreseen the technology itself, as you said, without excavation of the pipes. The state in which the road is located is doubting that this technology has been applied to construction works. It's a matter of further scrutiny. You have the competence to engage responsible institutions. More important is what has become clear from your answer that for the summer season the condition of the road will not be restored and it will remain so. Anything that concerns welcoming tourists, normal communication of residents, is postponed to the winter period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u133	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Will you use your right to dodge, Mr. Dimitrov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u134	It is very nice that no matter what happens in Bulgaria, the Ministry of Environment and Water should take responsibility for it to walk, it should check, it should build. I suppose you'll want us to create a construction company as well! I apologize very much, but our powers are in terms of moving these projects under the Operational Programme, providing you with assistance, chat-path and showing you how to fill them out so you can apply and win. The moment you take the money, you have problems, and we should be the ones to blame?! Well, we're going to sign the biggest project in Bulgaria on Tuesday in Burgas. Now let me not give it up, because some MEP from Burgas will come out tomorrow and say: but to me this street is muddled, I wanted it to be in this or in another form. Nowhere is it said that only winter should be built. Much of the construction work cannot take place winter. It seems to you that it should never be built because either winter or summer season will be ruined. You should have written it in the projects: we don't want money unless it's given on New Year's Eve and it's over by March. I'm very sorry, but we've given money to the relevant organizations.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u135	To the mayor. To the mayor!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u136	There are always moments like this that can't be drilled, there can be a surprise. Now, we all have to be surprised at the moment that in one landslide, the intended technology couldn't handle it. Sorry, we approved it in Sofia, we gave them the money in time. Do not think that we should walk on you now, finish your subject and fulfill it. It's out of our hands. Our options are to control, possibly impose sanctions, and then the big problem comes when it turns out that someone has mastered the money, and then when we don't verify them, they suddenly start to suffer. Let us not, however, feel guilty that something is not built like humans! We'll sanction him. And don't make us say one day that we want you to quickly learn here, apply, follow the procedure, and then because someone in the chain hasn't respected... It's our fault again. In my first speech in Parliament as a minister, I said: we have a critical point to which we give money for the year for such water sites, no matter what internal intentions they have among themselves. If this point goes by, we don't want the money to go back to Europe, we want it to go back to other purposes, as soon as you see that they won't be able to master it. Therefore, don't be angry with me or the Directorate General, be angry with your initiative, which in time has been wasted on public procurement, which has not been done in time and so on. We have rules, we are accountable to the European Union. We observe them extremely strictly and strictly. All our actions have been approved by the European Commission. All our actions are by decision of the Council of Ministers. But don't make us go into your political disputes either. Who likes the mayor or doesn't like his builder. This is outside of us, and it's not right for you to involve us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u137	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Good luck in your highly responsible activity in the heavy Ministry of Environment! Now questions to the Minister of Youth and Sports Mr. Krasen Kralev. The first and only question for today's meeting is from the MPs Vassil Antonov, Kolyo Milev, Hristo Prodanov and Mikhail Hristov regarding the financial support activities of sports clubs and federations as required by the Law on Physical Education and Sports. Who's gonna ask the question? Mr. Milev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u138	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! Our question is about the financial support of the activities of sports clubs and federations according to the requirements of the Law on Physical Education and Sports. Dear Minister, in connection with the entry into force of the new Law on Physical Education and Sports, the Ministry began a phased issue of unlimited licenses of sports organizations in Bulgaria. At the same time, it has been made public several times by you, Minister, that the Ministry aims to free the Bulgarian sport from the numerous hollows in quote clubs that exist only in books. This effort has become an instrument for direct impact on the activities of various sports federations. All of this could have a positive role to play in the revival of the Bulgarian sport from the crisis in which it is located, if combined with transparency and objectivity in the criteria and ways of funding. One of the transparency instruments is access to information about all public activities of the Ministry under the Public Information Access Act. There are a number of cases where the Ministry refuses to provide information within the statutory deadlines. The Annual Report of the Ministry for Work under the Law on Access to Public Information for 2018 shows that 36 requests have been received from which information on 16 has been provided and with different reasons for 20 have been refused. Currently there is no report for last 2019 of the Ministry on access to public information, although it is part of the government report on the state of administration in 2019. A tendency towards greater opaqueness has been developed especially for the cases related to financing. The reason that such information relates to third legal entities is the usual formal reason of the Ministry for refusing publicity in the activities of supporting sports clubs and federations. The current procedure for issuing licenses for sports organisations, which are for the first time time time indefinite, also gives rise to a sense of behind-the-scenes solutions and arbitrariness. Dear Minister, our questions to you are: why does the Ministry of Youth and Sport refuse access under the Public Information Access Act to most requests? Why is there a silent refusal that forces requests for access to public information to prosecute the Ministry? How many cases of access to information have been filed against the Ministry, how many has it won, and how many has it lost at the moment by years? When will all the funding information for sports clubs and federations for the current 2020 be published? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u139	Thank you, Mr. Milev. Mr. Kralev, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u140	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Antonov, Mr. Milev, Mr. Prodanov, Mr. Hristov! At the beginning of my reply, I would like to present several main points of the Law on Physical Education and Sport in force from 18 January 2019 and the way of financial support from the Ministry of Youth and Sports of licensed sports federations and those entered in the Register under art. 9 of the Law on Physical Education and Sports Sports Clubs. As you point out in your question, in the new Law on Physical Education and Sports there are a number of new requirements for sports federations and sports clubs that help to end the practice of the so-called hollow clubs. Some of these requirements are that the members of the board of sports clubs are not connected, that they are not members of a board of directors of another sports club that is members of the same federation, that they have a contract with coach staff and so on. We believe that these requirements currently fulfil their role as the trend is that the sports clubs registered in the Register of Federations authorised to be 10% less than those registered under the requirement of the repealed Law on Physical Education and Sports, such as the Bulgarian Football Union, so far the registered clubs are more than 30% less. All these data show that the measure is, of course, extremely effective. The procedure for issuing a sports licence to the Federation shall be carried out in accordance with the requirements of the Law on Physical Education and Sports and its Implementation Rules, which shall be fully transparent. The issue of an unlimited sports license of a Federation or the registration of a sports club in the Register of the Ministry of Youth and Sport is one of the mandatory conditions in order to be able to receive financial support from the Ministry, but is not the only one. Sports organisations may apply with projects under the Ministry of Youth and Sports programmes in case they meet their requirements and criteria. The programs and criteria are uploaded on the website of the Ministry of Youth and Sports and are prominent for all. The criteria are different for the different programs. In general, there are a number of active clubs, a number of carded athletes or children in clubs, a number of medals or subpoenas from state and international competitions and so on. I am convinced that there is no more objective criterion for assessing a sports organisation than its activities, which is measured by a number of sports and athletes' successes. The system we have developed has reduced the subjective factor in funding sports organizations to a minimum. Data from the reports under the Public Information Access Act indicate that the Ministry of Youth and Sport works transparently. The law on access to public information has different hypotheses for the purposes of pronouncing the subjects required under the Law on Physical Education and Sports or providing full information, providing partial information, refusing to provide information for various reasons which may be that the requested information is not public within the meaning of art. 2, para. 1 of the Law that the information is not available in the Ministry of Youth and Sport, that it has already been provided to a specific person in the previous six months and so on. A Commission has been formed in the Ministry of Youth and Sports, which examines the applications submitted under the Law on Physical Education and Sports. In a number of cases, the Commission leaves the request without consideration, again for some of the reasons already mentioned. There are cases where the requested information has been formulated very generally and the Commission allows the person requesting the information to specify his request. This is the reason why the reports under the Law on Physical Education and Sports include different hypotheses that do not necessarily mean not providing information. In your 2018 report, the figures are as follows: total number of applications For the same year there are three applications left unattended because the information is not public and five separate notifications of the lack of information requested. I will provide a brief reference by year, as you have stated in your question, although I will probably outperform my time set by the Rules. The figures for the period from 2014 to 2019 including, i.e. for the last six years, are the following: total number of requests under the Public Information Access Act Here I would like to point out that there are often applicants who ask the Ministry of Youth and Sport statistics for competitions tens of years back in time, and this is information that we unfortunately do not have. Number of refusals for the reason that the information sought concerns third parties and does not have their explicit written consent Number of refusals for the reason that the requested information is related to the operational preparation of the acts of the authorities and does not have any self-important importance. Number of refusals because the public information provided to an applicant during the previous six months Number of forwarded because the authority does not have the requested information, but there is information about its location. Number of cases over the entire period By 10 of them, the court has ordered that information be provided. The rest were terminated for various reasons and the requested information was not specified. In the meantime, the information is provided, and I ask you to keep in mind that there are cases where the requested information is in a huge amount and for its search and for the deletion of the personal data in it, even the extended period under art. 30 of the Public Information Access Act and so on. To sum up, we have 178 cases, only 10 cases for the period from 2014 to 2019, for which the information was supposed to be provided, and the Ministry did not provide it, that is, this represents about 5% of the requests. The statistics on cases by year: in 2014 there were no cases filed; in 2015 there were two cases, as in one court...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u141	You're getting carried away, Mr. Kralev. Is this detail necessary by age, how many numbers? Give it to him in writing.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u142	The answer to be thorough, I just have to read it. In 2015, there were two cases and one court ruled to provide the requested information and it was not provided and the other applicant was given the opportunity to specify its request, but it did not. In 2016, there were no cases. In 2017, the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Four cases, three dismissed, one court ordering information to be provided. In 2018, the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, A case dismissed by the court. The report under the Law to access public information for 2019 is submitted within the Integrated Information System of the State Administration and part of the annual report under art. 62, para. 1 of the Administration Act, which each administration shall draw up by 1 March. It's already uploaded to the Ministry of Youth and Sports. Information on sports licenses issued is provided to many media. I myself have answered this question in media participations.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u143	Mr. Kralev, I will execute you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u144	I request your permission to complete the exhibition!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u145	How much longer? I don't know what kind of information you carry around all these facts for years, how much?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u146	I'm answering my colleagues' questions. That was the question of a reference for information on cases by year. That's just the question. One minute and I'm done. Information on sports licenses issued is provided to many media. I myself have answered this question in media participations. According to art. 9 of the Law on Physical Education and Sports The Ministry keeps public registers of sports organizations. They are located on the Ministry's website in the section of the Registers. As regards information on the financing of sports clubs and sports federations for 2020, it is also provided to the media under the Public Information Access Act and is available in the public domain. The answer to the first request for information on approved financial support for sports federations and the amounts they receive shall be from 7 February this year. There have been several media publications on the topic, and the information is available and is on the website of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, in the section "Programs." With regard to information on financial support to sports clubs under various programmes, the information is provided under the Media Access Act, resulting in media publications. A large part of this information is uploaded to the Ministry's website in section "Programs" and are uploaded there: Program for the Development of Sports Clubs for 2020 - Sport for Children in Free Time, Sport for Children at Risk "Children &amp; Sports Club, Education for Swimming, Sports for People with Disabilities, Sport for All, National Youth Program and National Program for the Implementation of Youth Activities under Art. 10 of the Gambling Act. All these programs are uploaded to the Ministry of Youth and Sports. Thank you for your attention and excuse the extension.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u147	Thank you. Mr. Antonov, don't you give up your line in favor of the detailed and detailed statement? [[Heckling]] Here you go. Be as short as you can, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u148	I'll try, but I'm a little afraid I won't get involved in time. Thanks to the Minister anyway. Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Minister Kralev, thank you for trying to answer my question, yet this is the beginning of transparency, but you have gone not on our question. Our question was specifically under the Public Information Access Act. Of 36 requests you responded to 16, 20 you diverted them for various reasons. Since 2014, it is nice that you are still trying to answer, but you understand that when there is no transparency and when someone writes to the Minister letter he writes because something has not happened because something is lame, and it is usually not in clubs, but in federations. So this lack of transparency leads to the conclusion that you abdicate from your obligations. Moreover, because there is an established budget, you are not only abdicating, you are fulfilling this budget not under the adopted Sports Act, not under the Regulations you adopted last year. Last year we passed you the Sports Act as you wanted, including our parliamentary group supported many of your demands. After that you made a long time the Rules, at the end of which this year is the middle of the year, two thirds of the clubs from 2510 clubs have no budget. In addition, 22% of the federations, out of 106 federations, are without a budget and without a license. Well, how do they lead these clubs? How to correspond with the municipalities? What activity should they pursue? There are a number of other contradictions in your program that I can share. Take a look at paragraph 25. What is it, what is written in it, where can the levers be found to participate at least? And you didn't actually move that point on the website as referred to in point 25. There are also a number of other orders under point 12 regarding licenses, to a large extent 22 federations cannot apply, have no budget, and a number of other contradictions, but I will not be able to run out of time to give you the other points. Two things you have to answer definitely. Why, since we have the Law that you have offered us, and the Rules, still 22 of the Federations do not have a license? And how are we going to proceed when we have next year's Olympic year postponed this year because of the pandemic, but we couldn't fit in at that time? On the issue of chess, I will not disturb you, but you did not take the extended hand, but you started to validate old bad practices and deprive Bulgarian chess players and Bulgarian chess clubs of financial resources.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u149	Thank you, Mr. Antonov. Mr. Kralev, would you like to use your right to the backrest, or should we add it to your previous statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u150	Dear Mr. Antonov, I think that I have answered your question in great detail, which shows that the allegations in the exhibition you have made are extremely false, as the figures show that our administration is functioning extremely transparently. There have been no so far, in the last 30 years, more precise and clear criteria for financing clubs and federations. Those operating according to the Law receive funding clear criteria, clear rules and this is evident from the way the Bulgarian clubs continue to operate. So thank you, I will take into account all the comments about our work that you have made. Some of them, of course, I find unfounded, others justified, but I continue to argue and assure you that the ministry's activities are as extremely transparent as ever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u151	Thank you, Mr. Kralev. Have a nice day. We now come to the answer to the question asked to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works - Mrs. Petya Avramova. The question is from Mr. Manol Genov about the state of the announced by the Road Infrastructure Agency and the tender procedure for the development of a technical project and detailed development plan for the ring road of the city of Plovdiv. Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Dear Minister, Dear Minister! My question is extremely simple. It is about a procedure. It became known from the media that on 10 December 2019 the opening of the tender documents submitted for the design of the ring road route was started, rather in the southwestern part of it, where two roads are included -- II-86 -- which is the road Plovdiv -- Asenovgrad, and another section II-56. It is intended to increase the gauges of the road, to have an extension of the existing route and yet, Madam Minister, there is no result, no selected performer. My question is: when will this procedure be completed for the selection of a contractor for design and follow-up, after this design is entrusted, not only Plovdiv people, not only the residents of Plovdiv region, it is an important part of the entire Republican road network, the movement is extremely busy, we are witnessing regular traffic jams, as well as traffic accidents that happen all the time? Thank God, there have been no lost lives lately, but there have been major material damage and injuries in these traffic accidents. That's my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u153	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Madam Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Genov, at the end of October 2019 the Road Infrastructure Agency announced a public contract for the development of a technical project and a detailed development plan for bringing to the gauge D 23,5 on the second-class road II-86 in the urbanised territory of the city of Plovdiv, as well as for the third-class road III-805 in the section of the road node Tsaratsov to the link with road I-8. The total length of the project is 18.7 km. The public contract is divided into three separate positions, the first covering a section of 2.1 km long and consists of a small section of road III-805, 1.46 km long, which starts from road I-8 and develops in the direction of road node Tsaratszovo of highway. The specific position also includes a 600 m long section of road II-86, with the aim of finding a technical solution for connecting to the existing two republican roads. The second position concerns only road III-805 in the section from km 1+460 to km 4+120 in the direction of road node Tsaratsovo. This section is 2.66 km long. The third separate position covers a section of road II-86 with a length of 13,96 km, starting at km 0+640 and ending at km 14+600 after crossing the railway Station for non-ferrous metals and before the crossroad with the road Plovdiv "Asenovgrad." The tenders of the participants in the contract were opened on 10 December 2019 as well as you noted. A total of 17 offers were submitted on the three positions. For the period from the opening of tenders until March of this year, the Commission carried out a verification of the participants' documents, examined their tenders and verified the technical proposals. The envisaged meeting on 18 March 2020 to open the price proposals of the admitted participants was postponed to 15 April due to the state of emergency on the territory of the country. After an analysis of the proposed values for execution of the contract, proposals were established for each of the lots which fall under the condition of art. 72, para. 1 of the Public Procurement Act, namely the submitted price offers with more than 20 percent more favourable than the average of the other participants' proposals under the same valuation indicator for the respective position. Those applicants shall be required to justify the formation of price proposals within the prescribed legal period. The expected deadline for the completion of the Commission's work under the open procedure for selecting a contractor for the design of the technical design and under a parcel plan for the ring road of the city of Plovdiv and the ranking of the participants is the end of June 2020. If the decision of the contracting authority for ranking is not contested, contracts will be concluded with the selected contractors under the respective separate positions and the time period for the development of the technical project in each separate position are as follows: position 1 Only the time for carrying out the relevant project research activities shall be included in those deadlines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u155	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Genov, you have the right to reply for two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u156	Dear Minister, I understand that due to the emergency situation the deadline has been postponed in time. As you said, the one lot ended at the end of June. 150 days is about half a year, 6 months, i.e. by the end of the year we should have a finished technical project, a parcel plan, relevant alienation events. I have two questions in the line. One of them after normal closure, for example without appeal and so on, when do you see the real opportunity to start implementing this project that will be implemented? I'm using this tribune to ask you one more question. So, as I was traveling along the ring road, I received information that the Road Agency had reassigned this road for 14 million. lv. If it's a rumor and it's true, confirm it, if it's not true, deny it from this tribune, because for a reassignment, by all rules, guarantees are at least five years. So people need to know if there is such a reassignment, so there will be no ring road for the next five years and it will not be started, because after all this money is ours, whether from toll fees, whether from the budget collected. If now 14 million are thrown out for re-asphalting, and as I understand it, the existing route does not fall entirely. 100%, into the future absorption of the road, and if there is such an award, will not some money be thrown out of the wind? After all, it's not a little 14 million. BGN, if that's true, what I've heard and learned. Thank you. Those are my two questions in the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u157	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Mrs. Avramova, you have the right to the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u158	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Genov, you rightly noted that there are procedures that must be done before the actual construction of any road, as well as on the road around Plovdiv. When the projects are ready within their design period, as the job and contract are, the estrangement procedures must be carried out. They take time. You know that this is the most energetic time period of any project. We take advantage of the Law, of these opportunities which you have given with the amendments to the Law, so that in the case of objects of national importance, national sites, we take advantage of and issue a request for pre-execution to the court so that we can shorten the deadlines. We also want this site in its three distinct positions to be implemented as quickly as possible, so that 2021 we can have a project and do the alienation procedures and accordingly make the procedures for selecting a contractor. You know that we usually combine time and as long as alienation procedures last, we also conduct the procedures for selecting a builder. What was your second question is completely different. I have to do the appropriate check at the Road Infrastructure Agency to be able to answer you. I take the commitment after answering this question in control, to do this check in the Regional Road, at the Road Infrastructure Agency and to inform you by phone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u159	Thank you, Mrs Avramova. Have a good job. We conclude with a question for Mr. Danail Kirilov, Minister of Justice, who has to answer Mr. Krum Zarkov's question about the concept of criminal policy approved by the Council of Ministers 2020 and its impact on the legislative process. Mr. Zarkov, come in, you have two minutes to present your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u160	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, at its meeting on 7 May 2020, the Council of Ministers approved the Punitive Policy Concept 2020 - 2025. The same was presented and discussed at the National Assembly on 5 March of the same year. Representatives of all political forces, the institutions responsible and the expert community took part in the discussion. Although the limited time then did not allow all aspects of the Concept to be affected, the common understanding was that it was professionally prepared and, more importantly, a really necessary document. Particular attention and unreserved support were given to those parts that concern the legislative process. That's why I want to remind you of two paragraphs of it. On page three of the document, the changes in criminal law must be carried out after careful examination of the identified problem based on statistical data and an analysis of necessity. The Penal Code should not become an instrument for dealing with processes and phenomena met with public reproach and anxiety, and any change should be assessed in view of its need in the short and long term. Even more clearly, it is said on the next page: The constant increase in the amount of penalties does not allow them to be an adequate reflection of the nature and degree of public danger of criminal behaviour. Statistics clearly show that increasing the size of penalties does not lead to a reduction in crime. These are generally known to experts truths, but they are already part of a concept approved by the Council of Ministers. Unfortunately, however, they have failed to influence the penal process sufficiently so far. Since the official presentation of the Concept so far, five draft laws have been submitted to the National Assembly's Business Administration, and one of them has been submitted since 7 May, when the government was meeting on the concept. None of these bills, in our view, meet the high criteria set out in the document. We risk adding the many currently pending bills, seeing again a well-prepared strategic document, which, however, remains only on paper. So I ask you to answer me: what are the actions that the Ministry of Justice envisages for the effective implementation of the new Punitive Policy Concept in its part concerning the legislative process?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u161	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Mr. Kirilov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u162	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear MPs, dear Mr. Zarkov! I'll try to combine two directions in the answer. Firstly, in order to make it clear to everyone the principle that we are seeking to establish; secondly, I will try and give specific answers to your specific question. You know well, but I also hope that all non-jurist colleagues in this Chamber will respect this, the particular nature of his punishment and his connection to the crime. Criminal policy is not limited to the creation of a systematized structure for the punishment of acts of high public danger. The structure of penalties must correspond to all types of crime and be relevant and proportionate. I think you have applied to the concept that we have adopted that it will be a legitimate, democratic strategic document that will lead both the executive power and the legislative body of the Republic. In connection with your questioning, I hope this concept will have an impact on the legislative process. However, I stress that this depends on both the MPs and the parliamentary groups. Yes, by 7 May there were about 12 amendments to the Penal Code. I suppose that after this I have not consulted the National Assembly's case-law, more proposals have been submitted to amend the Penal Code. Most clearly, the reactivity of the public reaction to the legislative process has been demonstrated in this House. Not in executive power, but in this room. Therefore, the most serious group of importers is the MPs of individual bills. I supported and continue to support your call from the beginning of the calendar year, even if it was from the end of last year, in relation to the Concept, when you recommended and we all accepted abstention from discussing the bills regarding the Penal Code. I believe that this was a healing legislative measure. I do not believe that this measure is currently ongoing. You are a member of the Conference of Presidents of the National Assembly and you can comply with and discuss with the other parliamentary groups what is the time when the National Assembly will decide to take the more than 12 draft laws in question for discussion. Yes, the concept was adopted with very serious support of the representatives of the legal community and I think it should be strictly respected. Along with this, we must realize that we will not see direct and immediate implementation of all recommendations on the day of tomorrow. Yes, as Minister of Justice, I say that I have taken all measures to create the opportunity for experts and attracted specialists to start working on the concrete proposals for analysis that are set out in the strategy, and I hope that even within this mandate they can be presented to your attention, but for this period, the restraint or rollover of the bill depends on the joint, I would say, the will of all Members of the National Assembly. I take this opportunity to point out that penal policy should not be a matter of just one or several parliamentary groups, it should be a problem for all the parliamentary groups - both those in charge and the opposition. This is an issue on which consensus and interaction must be sought and reached to the maximum extent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u163	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Mr. Zarkov, are you going to use your right to a line or are you going to give it up? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u164	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, your words are true, they are written in the concept. One of the reasons I asked this question and did not give up my right to a line is that only words are not enough. The truth is this. Every political force and government are often subjected to public pressure due to a serious crime that shakes the public. Our responsibility as lawyers, your responsibility as Minister of Justice, our responsibility as members of the parliamentary committee dealing with legal issues is to tell people clearly: when something like this happens and simply proposes raising penalties in the Criminal Code, it is a false solution. It does not help the victims of the relevant crime. These new texts will not be applied to them. It also does not help the public, because, as noted in the Concept, increasing penalties does not lead to a reduction of crimes. This is a false political move that often conceals political frustration on other issues. We know, and we all know that the reasons for committing certain crimes are very complex and are not influenced only by the Penal Code. It's about socio-economic aspects, psychological aspects and everything else science is dealing with. What do we have to do to make sure it doesn't end in words? We must have the courage to make it clear, not deceive people and say everyone where there is influence that this is not the way. And you, as Minister of Justice, should have this courage and oppose, including the Council of Ministers, when sliding along this plane. What must and is not forbidden to change in the Penal Code must be made clear, respectively, the established principles of criminal justice, which have taken centuries not only for Bulgaria, but also for mankind to achieve and oppose that trend, according to which these principles, see, somehow hinder the achievement of justice. On the contrary, let us trust more, creating a clear legal framework, to the judges who are ultimately the ones who see the particular case, the living life in their room, both with regard to the victims and with regard to the accused and the perpetrator. That's what we have to do. Therefore, you can rely on our support, but we must also have the courage to face what the superiors sometimes command to do.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u165	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Mr. Kirilov, you have the right to the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u166	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Zarkov, we are in full agreement on the analysis of the effectiveness of penal repression. Yes, I will say it from this tribune, and I have always stated this: strongly the punishment and its effectiveness must be taken into account as a complex of measures. Not only are the years, the prison term carries out penal prevention and achieves the objectives of punishment. But I will also allow myself to say the following here is not enough just for lawyers to be careful, and society must be wise. And to get to this stage of public thinking, the lawyers have a lot of work to do. Yes, you are right that we should talk and explain to people what the tools and details are to achieve the objectives of punishment. I absolutely agree with your proposal, and I am glad that we have the same thought. I allow myself, although it is not on the subject, but since a few hours ago I received a reproach from you on another legal issue relating to the implementation of the draw procedure for the formation of the Civil Council of the Monitoring Council, to say the following. It is not right to do a detailed analysis of the facts, circumstances and the application of art. 7 of the Decree of the Council of Ministers. I would say that in so far as I have some organisational authority on this issue, I considered that during the pandemic only two participants in both procedures and the one concerning the representatives of non-governmental organisations and the one concerning employers' organisations, although the case there is a different case, one of the participants is legitimized by the authorisation of six other employers' organisations, the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry has received an award from the other employers' organisations, but in view of the situation two non-governmental organisations cannot legitimise. You can see that I have great respect for the Bulgarian Institute of Legal Initiatives and spiritually, and professionally I am close to Mrs. Weegertseder, but in the procedure, let's say, the non-governmental organization is absent. I'm absent from Mr. Milkov, who probably couldn't apply under these conditions and conditions. I guess this isn't the only case. There's nothing wrong with that. We went up once in the pandemic. I will pull out all internal documents, but they are internal organizational, my employees are the secretariat of this council, which I am not co-chair, as a matter of fact, but then I advised them: extend the deadline by another two months. That was early March. So now, in view of both the public reaction and in order for there to be full transparency, Mrs Vegertseder is present in all formats, she is also present in the Judicial Reform Council, and we are constantly communicating, and we are communicating on the implementation of the roadmap for judicial reform. So I do not accept this reproach and turning something useful and in favor of publicity with a reverse sign. The meaning here is not in favoritism, but, on the contrary, in the illumination of this process. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-06-12.u167	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. With your response the parliamentary control for today is complete and complete. Honourable Members, the next meeting will be on 17 June 2020 at 9.00. I would like to thank all those who have asked questions and questions, as well as all those who have attended Stoically until the end of the meeting. Thank you, colleagues! Alive and well! Enjoy your rest and successful work on your constituencies. Due to the exhaustion of the agenda, I am adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
