ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-21.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Procedure Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-21.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of ministers, fellow Members! I am doing a procedure for direct broadcast of the vote on today's vote on the Bulgarian national television channel 1 and the Bulgarian national radio. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-21.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Another procedure by Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-21.u4	Thank you. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Yesterday, when the debate on the government's no-confidence vote was held, the prime minister was absent from the House. We invited him then you said he was not in Bulgaria. Today the Prime Minister is in Bulgaria, but he is gone again! Did you invite him? If you haven't, invite him here. There is also a proposal for a direct broadcast to appear again on TV. Let him be here....vote the distrust of his office! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-21.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. The Prime Minister's absence yesterday was not at his request due to participation in the European Council [[noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] At which he negotiated 29 billion euros for Bulgaria! [[Extreme applause from GERB and OP.]] Today, despite his great desire to be here, he cannot, because he is still traveling. Please vote on the procedure made by Mr. Ivanov for direct broadcast on BNT Channel 1 and BNR. Vote 232 MPs: for 231, there is no abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please turn on BNR cameras and microphones. For today, colleagues, we have voted on a single point: MAINTENANCE OF THE PROJECT OF A DECISION TO VOICE THE NEIGHBOURHOOD OF THE MINISTERAL COUNCIL OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA WITH THE MINISTER-FREE BORISCO BUILDING IN THE CORRUPTION PROVERSION POLICY. Please, voting mode. Vote 237 MPs: 102, against 124, abstention 11. The vote failed. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] You have the floor for a negative vote, Mr. Manev, please. [[The representatives of the National Assembly for Bulgaria and the MPs of the DPS are leaving the Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-21.u6	Dear Madam President...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-21.u7	Maybe you should wait, Mr. Manev. I see movement in the room so we can still hear what you have to say. [[Voices: "Omission!" by "BSP for Bulgaria".]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-21.u8	I'm very keen on those coworkers screaming over there to hear what I have to say, so I'll hurry. Dear colleagues, the vote passed the negative vote is a procedure which I did not understand until today. Why did I vote one way or another?! I have my conscience in front of me, and I know why I voted. But I have a few things to say to you. Today I voted against your vote for three main reasons! The first one is called a lie! The second one is called stupidity! And the third is called hate! You and your no-confidence vote lied to the young people who walk in the streets of Bulgaria and lied to them about doing it for them! Not at all! You're doing this for your unfulfilled leader! And even in your vote's motives, your colleagues have told you that you have a way out if you ignore the other two reasons for stupidity and hatred. It is foolish, fellow Members, to want to destroy one country with all the institutions of this country. Along with an unfulfilled Führer to go to the destruction of the state and say that then you want to do something good for young people, for the state to rule it, here you are within the bounds of stupidity. And finally, I didn't hear, I didn't read, I didn't see, and no one told me that there was a smart politician who built his hate policy! Hate is easy. [[the President signals that time has run out]] It's hard to run a country! And today's 29 prove it, you know what. Goodbye, colleagues. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-21.u9	Thank you, Mr. Manev. Mr. Gurnevsky, come in for a second negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-21.u10	Dear Madam President, honourable Bulgarian ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! In the just rejected vote of mistrust, I voted against it, because in Bulgaria an unprecedented attempt to mutiny against the legal government involving three groups of people is under way. The first, which is the basis of this infernal case, is the self-eatening Bulgarian Socialist Party. She's trying to save from retribution what she created in the criminal transition, a mafia oligarchy. For the face of the street putch was brought out BSP's biggest failure in politics.. Staff Sergeant Rumen Radev! There is no other definition of a statesman. [[(Replications from the other MPs from the BSP for Bulgaria......................................................................................................]] who sided with fugitives from justice against the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office, seeking retribution! Next to his right shoulder they installed the leader of the bloodless Red Ninova pack, which from a prominent privatizer from the transition... [[Replications from the MPs Valeri Zablyanov and Dragomir Stoinev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-21.u11	Mr. Gurnevsky, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-21.u12	...from the village of Krushovitsa today has already become the role of the Mysian Holy Mother of God! Fired by his own prime minister for corruption [[Replications by MPs Valeri Zablyanov and Dragomir Stoynev]] All day long he screams under the road and over the road: Down the corrupt! In the second group are both rejected by society political marginals and well-motivated ultras, whose task is chaos and blood during the mutiny! In the third group, which is more interesting, are clearly intelligent people who, on the second day of the protest, separated themselves from the first two groups, and it became more democratic. These protesters stood between the forgetful anarchists and the Bulgarian policemen. Thus prevented orders from thugs, mobsters and oligarchs a bloody attempt to change power in Bulgaria. I allow these people from this group to give the following advice: more like an appeal: formulate an hour rather your ideas of a better life and their specific dimensions! Subject them to democratic public discussion [[the President signals that time has run out]] , convince yourself of the horizon in front of the path you have taken and create your own political project! There's no way on that nightmare in the square... [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-21.u13	The weather, Mr. Gurnevsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-21.u14	I'm done. ...to make sure that true democracy is not built with violence and blood, but through the ballots, through their will for a better life for our people, which you will pass in the ballot boxes. Good luck to you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-21.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Gurnevsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-21.u16	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-21.u17	I'm sorry, there's one more vote and I'll give you a procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-21.u18	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen of ministers! And the third negative vote will also be for three reasons. The first is that the protests clearly show that the people are wise and notice that the only party is not from the changes, but from the Liberation until now, which has participated in parliament... [[Noise in the room.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-21.u19	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-21.u20	...and it's not tainted in corruption, it's a Volya party. We have entered Parliament with honor and come out with honor. And as a guarantee of that, in the protests, no protesters allowed themselves to raise a slogan against our party. I know there's gonna be trolls tomorrow and you're gonna fix that mistake, but it's too late. The second thing is that when BSP came to power, Bulgaria has always been either in crisis or worse in a national disaster. This is precisely why the second and subsequent wisdom of the Bulgarian people is that they never want to allow you into power again because they know what is next. Knowing this and you that power will soon not see, try to use the situation and enter the power through the back entrance through the so-called office. That's not gonna happen. The Bulgarian people notice it and will not allow it. So a little more humility the faster you get down, the better. The third thing is the disgust of the worst thing that can happen in politics, to coalize even with the devil just to get your hands on the bone. We are referring to the last local elections in which you made a coalition, supposedly with the worst opponents of the so-called psycho-right, liberal-right, soft wrists, or I don't know what they're called yet. [[Noise and lines.]] But the results are clear! In several town halls you managed to win in Sofia...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-21.u21	The weather, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-21.u22	Yeah, I'm graduating. In several town halls you managed to win in Sofia and nothing good happened there. That is why we did not support this vote of mistrust. You knew very well he wouldn't pass. If you really wanted to look for and see who are opposition and who are not, you wouldn't want a meaningless vote of mistrust, and you would want a vote of confidence then the government should have gathered 121 votes. But today, in this vote, it was clear that the government has its majority...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-21.u23	Time, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-21.u24	So let's wish them luck! Good luck to all Bulgarians in the fight against corruption and more honest and honest people in the next parliament! Thank you. [[Applause from the Bulgarian Rhodolists.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-21.u25	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. In the manner of conduct, Mr. Zablyanov? In the manner of conduct, Mr. Zablyanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-21.u26	Thank you. Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Ministers! I would like to draw attention to the fact that you should punish Mr. Gurnevski for the qualifications he gave the Head of State, the opposition, the chairman of the largest opposition party... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-21.u27	Colleagues, I'm asking you not to disturb the order of the court.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-21.u28	...and the MPs of this party. This will not be difficult to do because Mr. Gurnevsky's statement was written, which, in my opinion, aggravates his offense. This means that he quite deliberately sat down and all these qualifications, after rethinking, wrote them on a list with his deep conviction that this is so. So these aren't random words dropped on the stands, as sometimes happens in the emotions of our disputes. So I urge you to take his statement. He can provide it to you at the moment, and to impose on him the punishment which is written in the Rules of this type of qualifications. Finally, if you think that what Mr. Gurnevski read is an explanation of the situation in Bulgaria and is a universal explanation of what is happening.. that one is bad, the other is worse, the third is a saboteur, the fourth is accidentally fooled and all this undermines your government, this is the sweetest utopia you can find yourself in. That is why I call you finally, by removing Mr. Gurnevsky's propagandist pathos and if you really want to understand the reasons for the vote and the motives of many protesters today, then do a deep management, political and social analysis, because in a few months you will find yourself on the eve of the elections. And then he'll do you good. The insults to the BSP...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-21.u29	The weather, Mr. Jablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-21.u30	...and the Head of State won't help. Bulgaria does not need this, and I hope you understand that too. Unfortunately, your colleagues' reaction was rather inappropriate. Thank you. [[Single applause from the other MPs from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-07-21.u31	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. Colleagues, this was the only item on today's agenda. Tomorrow's regular meeting of 22 July 2020 at 9.00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
