ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Honourable Members, I will present to your attention a Project for the Work of the National Assembly for 19 February 2020. "1." Hearing of Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev and Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov on the basis of art. 113 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the result of the study on coronavirus 2019 in the case of Ukrainian citizen and the measures taken in this case, as well as how Bulgaria is preparing for such an epidemic. Importer "Kristina Taskova" on 17 February 2020 2. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Independent Financial Audit Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 10 December 2019, adopted in the first vote on 29 January 2020. 3. Draft decision on the adoption of procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates as governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and the hearing of candidates in the Committee on Health and the procedure for selection by the National Assembly. Importer (s) The Committee on Health on 14 February 2020 4. Second vote on the Bill for Supplement to the Property Act. Importers suppose Milen Mihov and a group of MPs on 18 September 2019, adopted in the first vote on 11 December 2019. 5. Report on the activities of the Temporary Committee of inquiry to clarify all the facts and circumstances surrounding the case of draining the information from the electronic database of the National Revenue Agency and Draft Decision on the report. Importer (s) of the requested committee of inquiry on 29 November 2019 Point 1 for Thursday, 20 February 2020 Honourable Members, the Conference of Presidents was decided to move on yesterday's programme the election of Vice-President and of two members of the Communications Regulation Commission to become the first point for Friday, while the sixth point on today's agenda and the second point for today becomes the Law on the ratification of the Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Kazakhstan for the transfer of convicted persons. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 30 January 2020. "7." Draft Decision for privatization of a separate part of the property of the Bulgarian maritime qualification centre. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 7 February 2020. Point 3 for Thursday 20 February 2020 8. Election of Vice-President and two members of the Communications Regulation Commission from the quota of the National Assembly. The procedure of choice shall be in accordance with rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 12 December 2019. Point 1 for Friday, 21 February 2020 9. Parliamentary control. Please vote on the so-read agenda. Vote 172 MPs: 139 against 1, abstention 32. The motion is accepted. Laws and draft decisions of 11 February 2020. ... Mr. Shopov, please come in the manner of conduct. I've started reading the messages, what exactly is there with the way of keeping it, Mr. Shopov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, the issues of conduct are wider than the specifics of a law or debate. The issues in the manner of conduct are regarding the management of the National Assembly at all, especially when we six people from the party "Attack" and the Presidential Council cannot express our views on this leadership. And today, on the day of the Apostle of Liberty and the great Vassil Levski, we have to say some curves. Dear colleagues, we have a precedent from the Supreme Judicial Council, which yesterday began...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u3	In the manner of conduct, Mr. Shopov. What's your point? [[People's representative Pavel Shopov spoke with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u4	Yesterday, regarding Judge Mitalov...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u5	No, Mr. Shopov, it's not in the way of conduct, it's essentially on the subject. [[People's representative Pavel Shopov spoke with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u6	It's the way I'm gonna say it. And it is that the Russian side has expressed a firm opinion... [[People's representative Pavel Shopov spoke with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u7	That's not the way to run it, Mr. Shopov. You can take a statement on behalf of a group, but this is not the way to conduct it! It's just not gonna happen, you know. [[People's representative Pavel Shopov spoke with microphones off.]] There's no band, yeah. [[People's representative Pavel Shopov spoke with microphones off.]] Mr. Shopov, please! [[People's representative Pavel Shopov spoke with microphones off.]] Thank you, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u8	My idea and proposal is.. I call the opposition, if it is a real opposition, it has this opportunity, it can gather 48 votes and how... [[People's representative Pavel Shopov spoke with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u9	Mr. Shopov, in the manner of conduct, you should have a comment on my holding the meeting at the moment. [[People's representative Pavel Shopov spoke with microphones off.]] Thank you, Mr. Shopov. We're moving on. Bills and draft decisions entered into force from 11 February to 18 February 2020: Draft amending and supplementing the European Structural and Investment Funds Management Act. Importer Ivelina Vassileva and Eugenia Angelova. It is allocated to the Leading Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds and the Committee on Legal Affairs. Report on the activity of the Economic Social Council for 2019 Importer "The Economic and Social Council." It has been allocated to the Committee on Labour and Social and Demographic Policy. A bill to supplement the Law on Structure of the Area. Importer "Julian Angelov" and group of MPs. It is allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. A bill to amend and supplement the Penal Code. Importer Desislaw Chukolov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Environmental Protection Act. Importer Daniela Daritkova and group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Committee on Environment and Water. Draft Decision on the adoption of Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates as governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and the hearing of candidates in the Committee on Health and the procedure for selection by the National Assembly. Importer of the Health Commission. Report on the hearing of candidates for Vice-President and two members of the Communications Regulation Commission from the quota of the National Assembly. Importer: Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Messages: 1. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria in implementation of art. Paragraph 1 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that by order he has authorised a military transport plane from the Air Force to execute flights to Zadar Airport in Croatia on 16 September 2020 and on 6 March 2020, with the appointment of a reserve day. Flights will be carried out with the aim of transporting servicemen to take part in a course at the Training Centre of the Multinational Aviation Training Programme for Special Operations in the Air Base In accordance with the provisions of the Law, the competent state authorities have been notified. The notification was received on 13 February 2020. No 003-09-17 and granted to the Defence Committee. 2. On 14 February 2020, the National Assembly was provided with a draft and adopted by the Economic and Social Council an analysis on the topic: The new financial instruments for the development of lifelong learning in Bulgaria. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the material was provided to the Committee on Education and Science, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds and is available to the Members of the National Assembly Library. Dear colleagues, please take your seats! Dear colleagues, today we honor the memory of the greatest son of Bulgaria "The Apostle of Freedom Vasil Levski. For every Bulgarian he is the purest and most holy person in our history, an example of selfless service of the people, a symbol of the desire for freedom and independence. Levski is our apostle and leader, saint and revolutionary, our basis as a people for self-esteem and pride. He taught us to live dignifiedly, to believe in our powers, to be united in the name of Bulgaria. Today we are obliged to recall his words: "For the Fatherland we work, bye-bye. You tell mine and I your curves, let's fix it. And let's go together if we're gonna be human. Let us remember his messages and rediscover the values that he has bequeathed to us. Because Levski is our ideal and our conscience, our measure of dedication to his people and loyalty to freedom and democracy. Bow to the memory of the Apostle of Bulgarian freedom Vasil Levski! Mr. Genov wanted a procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u10	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Ministers! For several days in our country on the Republican Road Network, control over electronic wineries and the toll system has been working. Unfortunately, for a year and something has been solemnly promised by the Prime Minister, by Minister Avramova, that Sofians who use this network and live around Sofia and these are tens of thousands of people whose personal physician, Mrs Daritkova, is in Sofia, where the child's kindergarten is in Sofia, the school is in Sofia, they work in Sofia and they are extremely worried because it is not clear whether they are being fined, whether they are fined! And that's what I'm saying tens of thousands, starting from Bankya, turning on the North Tangent, getting to Trakiya highway and continuing on the road to Samokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u11	What's the procedure, Mr. Genov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u12	Be so kind as to invite Minister Avramova, because apparently from these negotiations, which are being conducted between Sofia Municipality and the Road Infrastructure Agency, there is no result to explain from this high tribune what people should do! Will the promises made by her and the Prime Minister happen, or do people have to buy wine?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u13	I understand your procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u14	Let us make clear on this, because public tensions are rising. Perhaps Mr. Marinov knows about last night's protests, some Zulus that were made there, so invite her to explain to the MPs if there will be a solution to this problem, what and when. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. I will contact Mrs Avramova to provide the necessary information. Here you are, Mrs. Zaharieva, for a declaration on behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u16	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable Members! Again, we honor the memory of Vasil Levski and his sacred work. 147 years ago Bulgaria forgave its greatest son. And today each of us keeps in our heart a place for this extraordinary Bulgarian. Levski is the one who, with a clear conscience, we can call a Bulgarian national icon, the Apostle of Liberty, who sacrificed everything in person in the name of the ideal to be free. Much is written about Levski and it is difficult to talk about because Bulgarian history hardly has another person so sublime and selfless, and his feat is so great for our scale that it will echo in the conscience and memory of the generations to come for years, decades and centuries to come. Many leave flowers on his monument, others remember his covenants. Does Levski's dream of a pure and holy Republic sound naive today? Is it naive to think that today's century is a age of freedom or:......................................................... I kill it....................................... Work! Right today, Vasil Levski's ideals are more up-to-date than ever before, and right now, all of us in this room need to know that it's all about our joint efforts. Today, more than ever, we need Levski because he is the true and permanent unification of the nation, the Bulgarian national icon, untouched and unblemished by political ambitions and party biases. Yes, we are different in our feelings and desires in life, but Levski is the one who keeps making us feel proud that our little homeland raised such a hero! Today is the day with which to remember his dream of all citizens and peoples to live freely and in equality! Let us stand together today in the name of national agreement, the unity of our nation and our stability as a country with a European future and self-esteem! In his book, the Apostle of Liberty, Mercia McDermott, called him the most expensive treasure of Bulgaria, and wrote: "For me Levski is not a person known since my early years, but a sudden revelation, a blinding light that suddenly brightens my life. There is no historian who discovers the smallest fact from which the bright image of the legendary Apostle of Liberty is darkened. On the contrary, the historical Levski is even greater, even more worthy of admiration than the Levski we know from the legends. One nation is rich above all with its sons, and the people who gave birth to Levski should be considered one of the richest in the world. Dear colleagues, we have been chosen to defend the values of democracy and to stand up for the achievements of contemporary parliamentaryism. So today, let us be more humane, honorable, and discerning about this common enterprise. Let us remember: "Delas need, not words! " Bow before the Apostle's memory! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u17	Thank you, dear Mrs. Zaharieva. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u18	Madam President, I congratulate you on the speech with which you honored the anniversary of the hanging of Vasil Levski and the colleague for the statement read. I call for more declarations for Vasil Levski, if possible, not to read and unite around those who have been read, because the trend is not pleasant for each parliamentary group to have a declaration for Vasil Levski. Thank you for your attention. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. Moving on to the first item of today's agenda: HEARING THE MINISTER OF HEALTH KIRYL ANNANIUM AND THE MINISTER OF THE INTERNAL WORKS YOUNG MARINOV, ON THE BASIS In the case of an Ukrainian citizen and the measures which have been implemented in the specific case, as well as in the case of an EPIDIA, the Bulgarian State shall be considered to be the case. As the request is from the Political Party "VOLIA " The Bulgarian Rhodolyptics ", Ms. Taskova will make her justification within 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u20	Dear Madam President, honourable Ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Indeed, the reason on which I wanted this hearing was the supervised Ukrainian citizen with doubts about a coronavirus. I would like to reassure you from the beginning, if you are not aware, accordingly, to reassure all my fellow citizens of Stara Zagora that the sample came out and it is negative, that is to say, the purpose of the hearing is not to create panic or commotion among the population. Unfortunately, this case has caused many Old Zagoras to feel exactly the same way because of the lack of information from the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Interior what preventive measures are being taken regarding limiting the entry of this virus. I know that many of you will say that there is no situation at the moment and we should all be happy about it. But I believe that now is the time, after Stara Zagora met for 24 hours with the fear of the possible situation of coronavirus in Bulgaria, and precisely in Stara Zagora, to explain to the citizens of Bulgaria what the Ministry is doing, because even if we do not talk about this terrible global epidemic here in the National Assembly, or in the Republic of Bulgaria, Bulgarian citizens are responsible enough and try to reach different, lowered by other countries, preventive measures and take them. I believe that it is the responsible ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria who should give this information to the Bulgarian citizens. You know we're flooded daily with a huge information stream. You know, the World Health Organization has declared this virus a threat, and as much as we'd like to think it's there, somewhere far away in China, it's not. You know that there may already be more than nine Mr. Minister, most likely you will report the countries in Europe in which the coronavirus is already a fact. In the course of the hearing, I will ask my specific questions, which to the Minister of Health are much more than two and much more than two to the Minister of Interior. I realize that thermal cameras are not the protection that can ensure the stop for the entering of the coronavirus in Bulgaria, but the question arises: after there are such citizens entering from China into the territory of Bulgaria, are they being monitored, whether they exhibit symptoms or not, such as the recommendations of the World Health Organization? Indeed, we are taking a breath right now because the sample of this Ukrainian citizen is negative, but it was announced today that there are two Bulgarian citizens under surveillance in Veliko Tarnovo. I believe that the only way in which we can suppress, if I can say, the tension, or rather the anxiety and the fear, they cannot be gone, there is no way to stop them, because we are still talking about an epidemic on a global scale, it is only and only if you share to the public what is really happening in Bulgaria and what are the measures that are being taken. As I said, in the course of the procedure, I will also ask my specific questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u21	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taskova. Dear ministers, first Mr. Ananiev in ten minutes to brief us on the hearing information.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u22	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, dear Mrs. Taskova! A 40-year-old Ukrainian citizen living permanently in Stara Zagora, musician, saxophone player, health insecure, without a general practitioner. On 4 February 2020, he returned to Bulgaria after a few months' stay in China, Guangzhou, Guangdong Province. Arrives at Sofia Airport on a flight of the airport of Aeroflot from Moscow, Cheremetievo. Due to the lack of any symptoms, she remains on a domestic quarantine in her apartment "Apartment in Stara Zagora." On February 14, 2020 at evening on the establishment of a single increase in body temperature of 39 degrees, which is why he was hospitalized at the hospital's Infectious Clinic in Stara Zagora on February 15th. During hospitalization he was transported and accompanied by an official of RZI at the National Center for Infectious and Parasitic Diseases. The results of the study were negative, as Mrs. Taskova said, on the coronavirus 2019. During the stay at the hospital there is no fever or any signs of disease. He has a brief contact with only his cousin, also a Ukrainian citizen working in Stara Zagora. On February 18th, that is, yesterday, ended the 14-day quarantine period. Now for the measures, which is more important. As soon as the health authorities in the city of Uhan, Hubei Province, China, announced that there was an outbreak of pneumonia with vague etiology, the Ministry of Health took immediate action on the implementation of preventive measures aimed both at health authorities and health institutions in Bulgaria and society as a whole. The same aims to limit the spread and early detection of the new coronavirus 2019 and are in line with the recommendations of the World Health Organisation, the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control in Stockholm. By my order, an interdepartmental task force was immediately formed with representatives of all competent institutions and organizations. Its task is to coordinate the activities to ensure effective response preparation in case of import and non-proliferation of coronavirus 2019 in the Republic of Bulgaria, to monitor, discuss and take action, according to the current information on the disease coming from the World Health Organization, the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control and the European Commission, as well as to make proposals related to the operational organisation for early detection, hospitalization, diagnosis and treatment of cases, search for contact persons and organisation of anti-epidemic measures to prevent the spread of the disease in the country. In relation to the decisions taken by the meetings held, letters have been drawn up and sent to all regional health inspections. In this way, hospitals have been informed about the epidemiological situation, the need to carry out a targeted epidemiological history in patients with fever and acute respiratory disease or pneumonia. This applies to persons arriving from the affected territories. The letters provide instructions for carrying out adequate laboratory testing in patients with acute respiratory diseases returning from China. In order to prevent coronavirus contamination, 2019 of border health inspectors and health professionals in the treatment of coronavirus 2019 hospitals, the Ministry of Health has taken action to provide personal protective equipment, mobile disinfectants as recommended by the world and European institutions. So far, 2600 people have been reassigned to Sofia RZI, RZI Varna, Plovdiv and Burgas. For the purposes of supervising infections caused by coronavirus 2019, regional health inspections of medical professionals in the country provide definitions for cases of coronavirus 2019 and a form for reporting disease data. Recommendations have also been prepared for persons travelling from and to China, recommendations for medical staff with regard to prevention and control, laboratory testing, guidelines for monitoring in people who have had contact with a case of coronavirus 2019. The same ones are published on the website of the Ministry of Health, respectively in two separate sections for citizens and for medical professionals. Where necessary, this information shall be updated on a daily basis. At the request of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, information shall be sent with recommendations for the protection of employees in the performance of their professional duties. By order is ordered the way to register, communicate and report the cases of coronavirus 2019, the order of hospitalization and quarantine of persons with or without complaints returned from China, and the conduct of laboratory diagnostics. Medical facilities for hospitalization of persons meeting the definition of cases, as well as laboratories in which diagnostics are to be conducted, are defined. An algorithm has been prepared for action against persons arriving from mainland China in accordance with the definition of coronavirus cases in force in the European Union 2019. To date, samples of 23 returnees from Asia have been tested in the national reference laboratory for influenza and acute respiratory diseases. They're all negative. For the implementation of increased border health control temporary health units at the border crossings of Sofia airport. Terminal 1, Varna airport, Burgas airport and Plovdiv airport were also revealed. The work of the permanent border health control unit at Sofia Airport continues. Remote thermometering of arriving passengers via thermal cameras has been introduced, as well as 24-hour surveillance by employees of regional health inspections. Persons with increased body temperature are isolated, their epidemiological history is removed and, in case of a stay in China, they are directed to hospitalization. For persons without clinical complaints, a data collection form has been developed to follow up. In order to inform travelers to and from China, recommendations have been prepared which, with the assistance of the airport operators, should be placed at prominent locations at Sofia airport, Varna airport, Burgas airport and Plovdiv airport. Directions are provided by RZI Varna, RZI Burgas, Port of Varna and Port of Burgas on the organization and conduct of border health control at the border crossings located at ports. The instructions include carrying out a physical inspection of a vessel coming from an area with established coronavirus transmission 2019 as well as thermometration of the crew and passengers. In case of doubt, the sick person shall be transported to a medical establishment and the contact persons shall remain quarantined on the vessel. Foreign persons shall not be allowed to access the ship. Health authorities are hereby instructed to inform the crew and passengers with the recommendations to be followed for disease prevention. For information to the public are prepared and published on the website of the Ministry of Health and RZI recommendations for persons travelling to and from China, as well as answers to the most frequently asked questions. Up-to-date information on the number of registered cases of coronavirus 2019 is published daily both in the territory of the European Union and Europe and in the world on the basis of the official data of the World Health Organisation, the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control in Stockholm. As of February 18, 47 cases of coronavirus 2019 were registered in Europe, distributed by country, as follows: in Germany In addition, I inform you that from 11 February the Ministry of Health has opened an information telephone line on which citizens and organizations can ask their questions about coronavirus 2019. Anyone can obtain information on the symptoms of the coronavirus, the measures to be taken when travelling to countries with registered cases, when handling goods arriving from China and others. At the initiative of the Embassy of the People's Republic of China in Bulgaria was held a meeting with representatives of the Ministry of Health to familiarize themselves with the epidemiological situation and the measures taken to limit the cases of the government of China and the recommendations made against the Chinese citizens travelling to Bulgaria from China. A meeting was also held with representatives of the Chinese community in the country regarding the preventive measures applied to Chinese citizens arriving in the country, including home quarantine. On 13 February 2020, an extraordinary meeting of the Council of Health Ministers was held in Brussels, where the epidemic situation of coronavirus 2019 was discussed and each Member State presented the measures taken at national level. The measures taken so far by the Republic of Bulgaria, which I have already introduced to you, have been highly appreciated by colleagues from the European Union. In view of the risk of the spread of coronavirus 2019 within the European Union, the Ministry of Health also maintains close coordination with the European Union, the European Commission through the Health Security Committee and the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control in Stockholm. This is done through audio dating and conferences where current topics are discussed, taking into account the current situation related to the spread of coronavirus 2019. In conclusion, I inform you that the Ministry of Health monitors closely the development of the epidemic situation of coronavirus 2019 and as a Member State of the European Union, strictly adheres and implements the measures and recommendations prepared by the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control in due time to protect the health of Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u23	Thank you, dear Minister. Ten minutes for Minister Marinov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u24	Dear President of the National Assembly, Mr. Minister of Health, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Some of the information will be repeated with the one the Minister of Health gave. On 16 February 2020 at the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior "Stara Zagora," information was received from the Director of the University Hospital "Prof. Dr. Stoyan Kirkovich "that 40-year-old man with Ukrainian citizenship and permanent residence in the town of Stara Zagora has been admitted to the hospital with suspicion of coronavirus 2019. The sick guy's in isolation. Officials of the Ministry of Interior Regional Directorate Stara Zagora have conducted a check of the address of residence, which has been found to have no relatives or relatives and has not contacted their neighbors. The samples sent immediately to the reference laboratory in Sofia were found to be negative for coronavirus 2019. The patient was dehospitalized by the medical establishment on 17 February 2020 at 14.00. According to the director of the establishment, the person does not pose a risk to others and the persons he has been in contact with. In relation to the epidemic situation of acute respiratory syndrome related to the occurrence of coronavirus 2019, an operational task force has been established with the order of the Minister of Health to coordinate the activities of the competent departments to ensure effective preparation for response in cases of import and non-proliferation in the Republic of Bulgaria. On the part of the Ministry of Interior there are included representatives of the Directorate General of Border Police and of the Medical Institute of the Ministry of Interior. Three hospitals have been designated to treat all cases of patients with coronavirus infections over the age of 18 years: Infectious Hospital - Military Medical Academy, Infectious Department of the University Hospital - St. Marina (Varna), and Infectious Department of the University Hospital - Burgas. All cases of patients under the age of 18 years are taken and treated at Infectious Hospital. Ivan Kirov is at the Medical Academy of Sofia. From the Medical Institute of the Ministry of Interior are sent all methodical instructions drawn up by the Ministry of Health, the National Center for Infectious and Parasitic Diseases and the Sofia Regional Health Inspection, to all the structures of the Ministry of Interior. As the epidemic situation is dynamic and is constantly changing, any new up-to-date information we receive on a daily basis is immediately brought to the attention of all employees from the Ministry of Interior structures by electronic means. In the structures of the Ministry a methodical control of compliance with standard precautions is constantly carried out in order to prevent the employees of the Ministry of Interior. 6200 masks are provided by the Medical Institute of the Ministry of Interior, as well as 6200 gloves for the employees of the Directorate General of Border Police and the Department of Bulgarian Identity Documents at the SVR, Department of Migration at the SDVR, as well as a special home for temporary accommodation of foreigners in Sofia to the Directorate of Migration. All staff of the Directorate-General for National Police are familiar with the medical recommendations as well as with the key questions and answers referred to by the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control concerning the origin, distribution and prevention of the new coronavirus 2019. The measures to limit the spread of coronavirus 2019 at border crossing points at international airports shall be implemented in close cooperation between border state health control authorities at the Ministry of Health, border police officers and airport operators. The interaction between the authorities of the Directorate-General for Border and Regional Health Inspections shall be carried out in accordance with art. 22, para. 1 and para. 4 of the Ordinance on border crossing points. In carrying out their tasks referred to in art. Art. 16 and art. 18 of the same, according to Art. 18, para. 1 of the Ordinance the interview with passengers in the context of the study of cases of infectious diseases in travel in affected areas. The en route data for the journey in these areas; the order to carry out the necessary medical examinations and tests for each particular case; the placing under medical supervision of persons suspected of being infected, isolated or directed for isolation, and the treatment of the affected persons shall be carried out by the health inspectors at the border crossings. The practical actions of the border police officers of the border crossings are related to the identification of passengers arriving from high risk destinations with high levels of spread of coronavirus and the timely notification of on-the-spot inspections by the RGI at international airports. Border police are also assisting health inspectors in locating the arrival areas of airports of persons for whom increased body temperature has been established through the specialized thermal imaging technique of the Ministry of Health. The staff of the Border Police Directorate General who carry out border checks and security at international airports are informed of the typical signs and symptoms of the disease, of the countries and regions with high concentration of disease, as well as of the main prevention measures. All border police officers shall be secured with the necessary protective equipment. We remain in constant contact with the Ministry of Health and all institutions that have obligations to counter the entry of the coronavirus into the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u25	Thank you, dear Minister. Colleagues, we move on to the questions of each parliamentary group. I suggest that the questions should be asked.. we will take the first round of questions from all parliamentary groups to Minister Ananiev, then we will take the first round of questions to Minister Marinov and then the second round of questions. The first of the parliamentary group of GERB will not ask a question. The parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. Mr. Yordanov to Minister Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u26	Madam President, honourable Members! The question is whether we should discuss this problem in this House. The reason is that Bulgaria is not so young and for more than 50 years we have an effective program to combat this type of disease. They simply follow what the State Health Inspection prescribes in such cases. However, as a new type of disease, a new type of infection worldwide, there are some issues that distinguish the epidemic of coronavirus 2019 from those that have been so far. In this regard will be my questions to the Minister of Health Mr. Ananiev. First, a question that may seem insignificant to you, but for almost three weeks Bulgaria has been subject to a search for protective masks. On the Chinese side, huge quantities are sought: 10.12 million. As a result of all this and the likely exports, in Bulgaria the ordinary facial protective mask becomes something that is deficient. On the opinion of representatives of the health network, its provision for medical staff is becoming increasingly difficult and more difficult. Therefore, my question regarding the prevention of the coronavirus outbreak 2019 is: is it not time to temporarily suspend the export of masks from the country until the estimated amount is established and to be allowed after the provision of this quantity and the corresponding leaving in the Republic of Bulgaria? Literally yesterday, Mr. Ananiev, the incubation period of the coronavirus disease 2019 was increased to 24 days. This raises a number of questions because tracking endangered contingents should already take place in a period of four weeks, which is linked to very domesticism. My question to you is: in addition to those guidelines that you have very well presented to your colleagues in the health network, how are we going to ensure 24-day surveillance of the endangered contingents? Moreover, it is about people not only from China who have resided in China, but already in contact with carriers from other countries in Europe, and not only in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u27	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Mr. Minister, please answer the first question asked by the BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Associate Professor Yordanov, the necessary masks, gloves, hats, aprons, clothing and so on, related to the restraint of both Bulgarian medics and the people we doubt are provided within a two-month period. At the same time, we have made requests to producers to supply us with additional quantities after the end of this period, because, in my own opinion, and not only do I feel the same way as European and global health organisations, this disease will last more than two or three months. It's possible he'll make it to half a year. That's for the first question. Prof. Yordanov, you may have read that the Chinese government has taken measures because mainly there are produced these supporting and protective materials, within a few days will build a plant that will restore the production of such masks, which will enable us to provide for a longer period of time and the Bulgarian citizens who need it, and the Bulgarian medics who help and treat the people for whom there is doubt from the new coronavirus. As for the increased stay as quarantine, 28 days, as we have established an organization for 14 days, this organization will continue for 28 days. You can be sure that whatever is needed as funding, as an organisation will be provided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u29	Thank you, dear Minister. We move on to questions from the parliamentary group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Mrs. Jaffer, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u30	Dear Madam President, dear Ministers! For me, the point of this hearing today is to get an answer to the question: are there circumstances that are worrying about the spread of the so-called coronavirus in Bulgaria, and are the measures of the authorities that should monitor the situation adequate? My fellow Members, I would like to do a little flashback, and I have to tell you that going back ten years, we need to remember that, in fact, such circumstances have always happened. Ten years ago, the situation was concerned about the spread of the so-called bird flu. Here in the National Assembly, it was urgent that round tables were made, conferences in the East Hall, in the West Hall, and in fact what the specialists said then, despite the panic, was that psittacosis had always been there. However, diagnostic methods are improved and can be picked up by an explosion, for example, from such a virus. Just to remind you that in 2009, 2010 was the subject of the so-called swine flu. A minister went away, even though there was a vaccine with regard to swine flu at the time. He ordered these vaccines, but subsequently he had to resign, he was responsible. Court cleared him! Nevertheless, the panic, the media coverage, had gone in the direction that there was an emergency. Today we are in a situation where not only Bulgaria, not only Europe, the whole world is worried about what is happening with the spread of the coronavirus. For me, the essential question and answer today is whether the health authorities, as well as all the authorities, must respect the presence of the interior minister today. I'm sorry, Minister, that instead of dealing with your other important operational affairs, you're here today. It's important! It's important because we need to calm the public down. My question is: are the health authorities doing everything they can, have they included all epidemiologists, infectiousists in the country with regard to the analysis of the situation and taking adequate measures in relation to this situation? The objective fact is that there are enough diagnostic methods to make the diagnosis. However, we all expect a technological solution with regard to treatment and the vaccine with regard to this type of virus. Yes, the strains that circulate periodically put the industry, medical authorities, medical specialists and people to the test, but they are simply a challenge that modern science can overcome. I think there is no room for panic, but to take advantage of the proposed hearing to still hear objective data about how authorities and specialists are doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u31	Thank you, dear Mrs. Jaffer. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Jaffer, you can be convinced that all the necessary measures to be taken by the Bulgarian authorities and the health authorities and the others who are taking care to ensure situations to prevent the entry of coronavirus 2019 and, if so, all the necessary health measures are provided. I would like to say to you that a very pleasant impression was made by my speech by the Council of Ministers in Brussels, to which I told you about the measures we have taken, and I mentioned them earlier. The most interesting thing was that there was a comment on whether to take measures that the Bulgarian health authorities had already implemented and implemented, starting from the border crossing and reaching, if necessary, the relevant medical institutions to take care of people with such symptoms. I can assure you that we have put in place measures which a number of countries in the European Union have not yet introduced them. What we did with the thermal cameras was discussed what was the effect of them, should a telephone be entered as we have entered? I think what it is possible to do at this stage, we have done it. Undoubtedly this is a disease that could also enter the territory of Bulgaria, as it enters the territory of a number of developed European countries. I believe that the measures we have taken create a great deal of certainty that this will not be allowed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u33	Thank you, dear Mr. Ananiev. From the group of "United Patriarchs" "Please, Mr. Simeonov, ask your first question to Minister Ananiev."
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u34	Dear Madam President, Mr. Ananiev, honourable Members of the National Assembly! My question is related to the degree of readiness of Bulgaria to react in the event of the occurrence of coronavirus in neighbouring countries. This question we have put in a special declaration. The arguments are clear, although there is a tendency to appease public opinion worldwide, it is supposed to be limited, almost already under control of this epidemic. After all, over 100 people go each day and another 2,400 get sick. The biggest door to Asia near Bulgaria is Istanbul airport. Naturally, the Republic of Turkey is carrying out very large-scale transport links with Asia and specifically with China. Our question is as follows: what is Bulgaria's readiness in case of detection and confirmation of cases of coronavirus, because, as far as I have information, the 12 cases in Turkey have not been confirmed? If you know, answer me this adjoining question. And I have information that they didn't confirm. If there are such cases and there is an urgent need to respond, what is your readiness and respectively of the Ministry of Interior to open temperature control stations and respectively have you provided for isolation rooms in the three checkpoints that connect us to the Republic of Turkey? In other words, my question is: how many hours can control incoming passengers and tourists be organized? Of course, this is not a question of specific questions about Turkey, but is such modular teams ready to be prepared, to be on stand-by, to be waiting, if they have to, for example, be sent to a Danube bridge or elsewhere in the event of such viruses occurring in a neighbouring country? This is an extremely important issue and the whole responsibility lies with you two. I want to know if you've thought, are you prepared for this?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u35	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. Mr. Minister Ananiev, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u36	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Simeonov, first of all, I would like to say that there are no cases of coronavirus 2019 registered in the territory of the Balkans. In the media and in some speeches there were also such cases. Secondly, I would like to say that our regional health inspections, which are on the territory of Bulgaria's border crossing points with our neighbouring countries, are constantly in touch with the health authorities from the countries concerned and we are constantly informed about the cases of which there is doubt about how many they are, what symptoms people are showing. After all, the tests show whether or not there is, so we're in a constant relationship. Naturally, the instructions I spoke about in my initial speech, I think I firmly stated that all RGIs were given instructions on how to react. This also means regional health inspections which are in border areas where there are checkpoints, so that they can immediately react with the possibility of applying mobile thermal cameras of type.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Once again, the use of thermocameras gives you a security of about 20 percent whether or not the new coronavirus is present. From then on, the health authorities, with the relevant ambulances to the relevant medical facility, which is prepared to perform all the necessary medical research to prove the presence of this coronavirus, I think we have created the organization that you are talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u37	Thank you, dear Mr. Ananiev. Next is a question from the Bulgarian Rhodolists. Here you go, Mrs. Taskova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u38	Dear Madam President, dear Ministers! I'm not sorry you're here today. On the contrary, thank you for assessing the situation as sufficiently necessary and the issue as socially significant to discuss it, because only proper and timely measures can really limit the entry of this scary virus into Bulgaria. The information is contradictory and differing. Macedonia's health minister may rather have reported two cases available in Macedonia in a media publication. You most likely have more information and confirm that there is no such case. I think that even if we know that there is no coronavirus in the neighbours, it will also calm the Bulgarian citizens. My question to you is: do you plan sending samples even negative from different citizens in Bulgaria who are under surveillance to reference laboratories in Europe, or do you not believe that this is necessary at this stage because, as far as I am aware, the World Health Organization recommends this as well? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u39	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taskova. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u40	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Ms. Taskova, I confirm once again that both in the Republic of Macedonia and in all Balkan countries there is no established case of a carrier of the new coronavirus. I am convinced that we do not need to send the relevant blood samples to European reference laboratories, as our National Reference Laboratory is at European and global level and we are working with the tests to detect the presence of coronavirus 2019. So they are extremely accurate and there is no room for doubt that the result they report is not correct. Our National Reference Laboratory has all the capacity it needs to do the relevant research and determine whether or not there is a coronavirus 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u41	Thank you, dear Minister. We move on to the first round of questions to Minister Marinov. Will the parliamentary group of GERB have a question? I won't. From the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria? Mr. Yordanov, wait a moment. Mr. Danchev has a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Let me refer to you again: I do not know if you understood what Mr. Manol Genov said in his address to you in a previous procedure, at the beginning of today's meeting, but in Bankya, Pancharevo...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u43	I understood, Mr. Danchev, and I was going to answer...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u44	...and other neighborhoods of Sofia actually live in Sofia. They pay their taxes in Sofia and their children really study and go to kindergarten in Sofia. These people work in Sofia and therefore the question and request he asked you: to call, to address Mrs Avramova as Minister of Regional Development, to come and give information about what happened in the last year? What is so analyzed that now the question is again whether these people are really Sofians or not and do they have to pay a wine fee or not to come to the capital? So I'm asking you one more time: tell us what's going on? Is Mrs Avramova coming? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u45	Don't ask me so much, Mr. Danchev. I've contacted Mrs Avramova. She's currently on the Council of Ministers. He'll give us an answer and I'll let you know. Come again, Mr. Yordanov, for a question to Minister Marinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u46	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Marinov, according to unconfirmed information about us and about me in recent days the flow of Chinese citizens leaving China has been increased, who are arriving with relatives in Bulgaria. In this way, the community of Chinese residents in Bulgaria is thus increasing significantly. The first part of my question is: do you have data to increase the Chinese community of arriving Chinese people in the Republic of Bulgaria? Dear Minister, cases of coronavirus 2019 have been reported by almost all geographic regions in the world. I only get lost in Africa, but it's a slightly special contingent. Do you think and do you have the preparation to introduce an ever-wide control of the different individuals.Citizens arriving in Bulgaria from different countries where there is a risk of infection with the coronvirus.. not only of those who have been reported, but of others, where there are supposed to be cases with the coronavirus 2019?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u47	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u48	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Yordanov, regarding the increased number of Chinese citizens arriving, we are monitoring and we have done this analysis. Perhaps you mean the Chinese citizens who have the status of permanent or temporary residents in the country, but who were in China in connection with the Chinese New Year? Yes, we have the statistics, we have the people who travel, we have done the appropriate coordination with the Ministry of Health. Each of them goes through the appropriate control and the appropriate procedures shall be applied depending on what its health status is. So far, we have no problems, but I want us not to put a mark on Chinese citizens, because there is a danger that the Bulgarian society will start viewing them as an element of threat and therefore I do not mention it. The focus should not only be placed on Chinese citizens. I'll go straight to the answer to the second part of the question. The Ministry of Interior has the opportunity to analyse travelers so that we can find out which destination they come from at airports and, accordingly, all countries in which there is a coronavirus found fall within the category of persons going through such an inspection. This is organized and implemented. I am getting daily information about the checked persons, so I can assure you that, at the moment in response to the situation, the appropriate measures have been taken, but we should not overreact with the panic as this is not the objective. The goal is to be effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u49	Thank you, dear Mr. Marinov. Will there be a question for Minister Marinov from the parliamentary group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? I won't. From the parliamentary group of the United Patriarchs? I won't. From the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Rhodolists? Here you go, Mrs. Taskova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u50	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable Members! Since at the beginning of your response and justification at the hearing itself in the Chamber was extremely noisy and there by the Vola, frankly, we were unable to hear everything you told us, so I will allow myself again to ask a specific question regarding the measure taken by the Ministry of Health to be subjected to citizens entering China under domestic quarantine. Isn't that right, Minister? My question is: after being quarantined at home, is there any control by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior, or do we rely entirely on the responsible behavior and the good attitude of the citizens themselves placed under quarantine, as it is clear that in other countries they are being monitored in hospitals and not under home quarantine? [[Reply by MP Daniela Daritkova.]] As long as they're under surveillance. That's my question, although apparently he provokes a lot of laughter in Mrs. Daritkova. Please answer me and I think that is what the other Bulgarian citizens are excited about.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u51	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taskova. Mr. Marinov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u52	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Taskova, I am worried that my answer will be short, as the Ministry of Interior does not have such powers to control domestic quarantine, but the establishment of the organization is such that appropriate measures are needed as appropriate. Where there is a fever, naturally, the person is accommodated in one of these three hospitals and, if less than 18 years old, in what is stated in the previous statement. With regard to the control of the home quarantine, we spoke with Mr. Ananiev, this is controlled by the health authorities, by the relevant Jeeps and, naturally, by the citizens themselves, because this is regarding their and their close security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u53	Thank you, dear Minister. We move on to the second round of questions to Minister Ananiev. Will GERB parliamentary group ask questions? There won't be. Will there be a second question for Mr. Ananiev from the BSP for Bulgaria? I can't see. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, fellow Members? There won't be. From the United Patriarchs? Here you go, Mr. Popovski.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u54	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister Ananiev, my question to you is two points: what is the readiness of infectious wards in district hospitals, which are state-owned and which can take on prospective patients? What are the reference laboratories in Bulgaria besides the National Institute of Infectious and Parasitic Diseases? The third is also an important question: how long is the study itself being carried out, which shows whether the patient who suffers is a carrier of the coronavirus or not, because this duration is also important.. it can reduce the quarantine of the possibly ill patients? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u55	Thank you, dear Mr. Popovski. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u56	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Doctor Popovski, all infectious compartments have been given instructions and have been brought into line so that they can immediately respond to a case of coronavirus 2019. As to whether there is another reference laboratory in Bulgaria. This is the National Reference Laboratory and there are absolutely all samples sent for testing. On your third question, between two and three hours are necessary to identify the presence or non-existence of the virus. I just want to fill in Minister Marinov's reply a little while ago. We agreed that when a person has a fever, he immediately heads to the appropriate medical facility. In cases where there is no temperature but it comes from China or from another country where there are cases of coronavirus 2019, a leaflet shall be filled in, a form giving the relevant data to the person and having the relevant recommendations to be followed, and it shall go to home mode. What, though, does home mode mean? When the person is a Bulgarian citizen or with unlimited residence, he has, respectively, a general practitioner who is responsible all the time to monitor the state and compliance with the recommendations given by the health authorities. In cases where there are representatives of China in Bulgaria who are temporarily resident, there are two associations. One is an association of business and the other is an association of students who study in Bulgaria. They have created the necessary organization, and when a Chinese citizen arrives for temporary residence, and not only for temporary residence, they wait for him and when he passes through the thermal chambers and it appears that there is no temperature, they wait for him in a van, take him to the residence where he lives, and arrange surveillance during the quarantine period. I think the necessary organization has been created to prevent the spread if there is any danger to others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u57	Thank you, dear Minister. A question from the parliamentary group of Volya, the Bulgarian Rhodoljuktsi, to Minister Ananiev? Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u58	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable Members! Mr. Minister, my question to you is: is there, at present, an emergency communication organisation established with your colleagues from the health ministries who are in our neighbouring countries? I note: such an organization that will work on a possible signal that there is already a coronavirus infection in the surroundings of us and in our country, such a plan that does not surprise us at the last moment and work immediately with the action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u59	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u60	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Hristov, there is, of course, such an organization, I hinted in my initial statement. We are in constant contact with the World Health Organisation, with the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control and with the European Commission, and I mentioned a specific example, but it is a permanent video link with our colleagues in Brussels. At any time, when a situation arises that needs to be brought up and the other Members of the European Union shall be entered into such a video conference and, accordingly, it shall be said what is the change of the situation and what measures have been taken in order to inform all the other Ministers of the European Union and, if necessary, to introduce such measures in other countries in order to ensure that the State concerned is ready. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u61	Thank you, dear Mr. Ananiev. With this we have exhausted the questions to Minister Ananiev. Now a question to Minister Marinov. From the parliamentary group of GERB will not be asked a question, from the parliamentary group of BSP also, from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. From the party "VOLIA " Bulgarian Rodolivkitsi.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u62	Dear Minister, my question to you is more about our land borders. As it became clear, there is no known case in Turkey, but do you plan and intend to build a health post and the corresponding thermal cameras on the border with Romania, on the border with Turkey? Why am I saying this again? Because we know that Asian countries are mainly traveling through the airport in Istanbul and not all citizens who travel through this airport are necessarily returning to Bulgaria on a flight from Istanbul. Many of them use exactly our land border. When creating such an organization, we all understand that only people with symptoms and fever can be caught, not those who may be carriers of the virus. However, please say: do you foresee the construction of such a health post? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u63	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taskova. Mr. Marinov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u64	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Ms. Taskova, of course we are also monitoring the situation in the territory of neighbouring countries with a view to taking more large-scale measures at land border crossing points. With regard to these offices, the Ministry of Health is competent, but in the event of a threat we are prepared to introduce the measures that we have also introduced at airports with passenger control. You can see that Captain Andreevo is one of the busiest checkpoints. As you yourself said, there we can identify individuals who, when introducing the measures, have increased body temperature, so we are prepared to take such measures when the situation is complicated in one of the neighbouring countries. In addition, the Commission notes that the Commission considers that the airport services agreements with Ryanair and AMS are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u65	Thank you, dear Mr. Marinov. Colleagues, you have five minutes to deal with the subject we are discussing today. From the parliamentary group of GERB "Please come in, Mrs Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u66	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Ministers! I believe that our common belief after today's hearing is that Bulgaria has taken all measures to ensure the health security of its citizens. I thank the ministers for answering in detail all the questions asked. I hope that's the message we'll be broadcasting after today's hearing. As a practitioner, I can assure you that in the field all that has been reported by the stands is happening because all doctors have received instructions with precise and clear information about what they should do in each case where there is doubt about a patient coming from the epidemic zone and showing complaints requiring treatment or quarantine. Therefore, I would like to say here, now, once again that Bulgaria has traditions in compliance with anti-epidemic measures, a well-established organisation and I believe that this will allow us to tackle this challenge successfully, as we are dealing at this stage and with the other challenges that have gone through time in terms of various epidemics from various viral diseases, including those that are vaccine-preventable. I would like to thank everyone once again and be even more calm and confident that the health security of Bulgarian citizens regarding the coronavirus is guaranteed.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u67	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. Five minutes for BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u68	Thank you, Madam President. I feel a little uncomfortable after the words of Dr. Daritkova, because the way she completed her speech is ready, Bulgaria has traditions in the fight against infectious diseases, perhaps there is no point in saying anything else. Bulgaria, ministers and honourable Members, is the only country in Europe, not with regard to the coronavirus, where there are still epidemic outbreaks of hepatitis A, you know that, Mr. Minister, so we have much more to learn about anti-epidemic measures. I can congratulate the Interior Ministry and the Ministry of Health. When we discussed this issue in the parliamentary group, I said as a professional that this is an acutely professional issue. It hardly makes sense to debate within the National Assembly, but if it were to be debated, in my opinion, as a professional, two important things should be said that I did not hear here. First of all, what is the mortality of coronavirus, because this is what Bulgarian citizens are afraid of, is it really an epidemic that has the size, the severity of the Ebola epidemic, Mr. Minister, which was just a few years ago, an extremely serious threat, only that the Ebola mortality surpasses 80%? And the group of coronaviruses that are currently targeting the World Health Organization, two of them whose epidemics developed in the Middle East a few years ago, are far more deadly than the one that now has the alleged coronvirus that is currently going into the world. This is the first thing to be said to send the National Assembly a calmness to the nation that is not so black the devil, as the Bulgarian people say. The second thing that was very important and we still did not hear it here in this fruitful discussion is: what is the coefficient of contagiousness, i.e. how great is the danger of this? That is why I believe that the Ministry of Interior has not been as over-exposed as it was suggested here to place checkpoints almost at every border point in Bulgaria, because this danger of contagiousness does not surpass the others of the group of coronaviruses. Bulgarian citizens, if they are listening to us right now, which I seriously doubt, on this issue, should understand that there is really no serious danger to Bulgaria. If we turn not to the measures in the Republic of China there it is natural to be serious because of the volume of concentration of the population due to the size of the state, but you have seen that both in the Federal Republic of Germany, in Britain and in Italy these measures are far from the same in terms of their seriousness, that is, if we emit an impulse of calmness, it should be based on these two facts which could be commented so that the Bulgarian citizens can be truly calm about the measures taken by the two ministries. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u69	Thank you, Mr. Mihailov. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Welcome, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u70	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable Members! We from our parliamentary group thank you, ministers gentlemen, for the information that has been given. As a matter of fact, and in a respect of correctness, we must tell you that it is clear that all necessary and possible efforts are being made by both the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Interior. Unlike other times when we were critical, we would also be critical this time. In this case, there is a good coordination between the two ministries, between the structures of the respective ministries, this is important, it is necessary in view of the extreme sensitivity of the topic. But I originally intended to present those aspects that should be known by all of us through the opportunity to express attitude. Professor Mihailov, not only in terms of mortality. Perhaps it was appropriate to say that the main targets are the affected people, the elderly, who have problems with the immune system, with chronic diseases. They must be a special subject of attention and we must not underestimate it. Some colleagues here also expressed their opinion on the information that the peak of the epidemic in the country from which this epidemic started has passed and is good for all of us, but this does not mean that the measures taken should be reduced. We shouldn't stare and just look at neighboring countries. It is right that in today's global world all possible efforts are aimed at traveling, especially through airports, and there should be the focus and dominant of our attention, of our attitude. The necessary measures shall be taken. We must address all our fellow citizens. There's no place to panic. Measures should be taken as far as possible with regard to the immune status and improvement of the immune profile of each of us. And as for some other commercial stocks or not of medical devices, I believe that this is a market mechanism that will regulate itself. Naturally, there may be a reflection in terms of prices, but anyway I believe that the state is in place and such things must be provided, at least to medical teams. As a doctor, I am convinced that you, Mr. Minister of Health, will do and make sure that they have all the means necessary. At this point, there is no information that there are problems. There are measures being taken and we shouldn't be in a panic. We must be vigilant until the wave passes, and hope that in our country there will be no cases for which we will pray to God, but most importantly, that at this stage measures are being taken. It is evident that cases that are subject to observation are monitored and properly informed the public. God forbid there are no such cases, to pass this and to continue with all the necessary efforts, as you have already expressed, so that everyone in the country will have no reflection. Oh, my God! To look more constructively at other matters that need to be done. In the healthcare system there are many other real, constructive things to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u71	Thank you, dear Mr. Chakarov. Come in, Mr. Popovski.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u72	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Ministers! We all understand today that the combination of actions of the two ministries is very important at the moment, because we do recall that for the viral infection of coronavirus 2019 currently there is neither a safe vaccine worldwide nor a secure etiological treatment. So the anti-epidemic measures and these measures that are taken along the border are extremely important to prevent us from spreading contagion in the country. It is also worth considering, if necessary, to have another reference laboratory, for example in Varna, 500 km from Sofia, so as not to transport all the samples and load the laboratory at the National Institute of Infectious and Parasitic Diseases. Again, if there is a need, if there are any such patients, if we get to some point in some epidemic situation or the development of this infection in Bulgaria. For the moment, of course, there is no need, but, again, if necessary in the near future. I am satisfied with the answers, the combination of measures taken by the two ministries. I suppose the Bulgarian public has also found out about all these measures taken in combination with the two ministries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u73	Thank you, dear Mr. Popovski.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u74	[[BSP for Bulgaria, from place]] Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u75	Shall we get past the last attitude or before? Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u76	Thank you, Madam President. I'm taking the procedure before then to hear from the ministers. A few minutes ago, the Prime Minister of Bulgaria ordered the Head of the Railway Infrastructure Agency to go to the settlements of Pancharevo, Bankya, Kremikovtsi and all others and to shout that citizens will not pay a fee. Madam President, you really don't invite any more, and call on the Minister of Regional Development, this is the place. They don't have to go to the squares to scream like the sheriffs, and here is the place where the Minister of Regional Development or Deputy Minister Nankov, who is directly responsible for the introduction of the toll system, and to reassure the Bulgarian citizens, including the citizens of Sofia Municipality, that they will not pay wine fees. You don't have to piss off the Prime Minister, he doesn't have to scold his subordinates and send them to scream in the squares. This is where this attitude should be taken. Thank you again. But more strongly, if Minister Avramova may appear within the limits at least before the break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u77	Of course, Mr. Svilensky. I expect Minister Avramova to return a call because it is on the Council of Ministers, and I will immediately inform you when he will come to the National Assembly. Mrs. Taskova, come in for treatment. [[Noise and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u78	Dear Madam President, dear Ministers! First of all, I want to thank you...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u79	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u80	...for being here today. Because really, it is always more important for us of the will to raise the question when the time is right, i.e. before the event is already a fact and only the right actions can help us, not an unnecessary commotion. I hope that some of my colleagues have not underestimated the question and the hearing because they are aiming to create one, but rather because they feel sufficiently calm and prepared. I am glad that you have made it clear to all of us and to the Bulgarian society what is Bulgaria's readiness to limit this epidemic. Perhaps some of my colleagues reacted this way because they were not in the last two days in Stara Zagora. Perhaps the questions we have raised seem not so professional to the doctors I respect in this Chamber, but these are the questions that Bulgarian citizens from a large enough city, regardless of which municipality of Bulgaria, and I think that the answers should be obtained not from websites, not from information flows, namely from the ministers, for which once again I thank you for being here today. I hope from your answers that Bulgarian citizens will actually feel more relaxed, because on the way they are going prepared and it is better to prevent us from overinsuring ourselves than to wonder after that what happened. I don't want to compare the two cases at all, in any way I don't want to cause panic or commotion, but we didn't talk in advance about the swine plague and you know that then we had to act really like a crisis. It's a good thing you told us there was action after all, there's a package of measures that you're working on. It is possible that practitioners are aware that they may have reached each of them to the last municipality in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, but Bulgarian citizens are not aware of this information that you have given today, and I believe that the hearing has been beneficial even for this only. Regarding whether the debate should be held in this House, whether it should be conducted, I will not address you personally, Professor Mihailov, but rather the party of which you are part. It's only natural that the BSP is used to concealing information. All Bulgarians still remember the Chernobyl case. [[(Replys from BSP for Bulgaria]] I thank you for the debate, thank you for the hearing and for the current questions that have been asked by all my fellow Members. [[Applause from the Bulgarian Rhodolists.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u81	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taskova. We should thank Minister Ananiev and Minister Marinov for their participation in today's hearing and for the information they provided us. I see the coworkers are pleased with her. We continue with the second item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE INDEPENDENT FINANCIAL AUDIT. Mrs. Stoyanova, please introduce us to the Second Reading Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u82	Mrs. Rositsa Velkova, Deputy Minister of Finance; Mr. Ognian Simeonov, Chairman of the Commission for Public Supervision of the Registered Auditors, and Mrs. Genko Nikolov, Secretary General of the same Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u83	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Please, a voting regime for admission in the Chamber of the persons mentioned by Mrs. Stoyanova. Vote 92 MPs: 90, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u84	The Act for the Amendment and Supplement to the Independent Financial Audit Act. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u85	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law supported by the Commission. They voted 105 MPs: for 105, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u86	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u87	I shall put the text of the importer to the vote for paragraphs 1 and 2. 100 MPs voted: 97, none, abstention 3. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u88	According to § 3 of the importer there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs: In § 3 t. 1 to be absorbed. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the The examinations referred to in paragraph 3 shall be carried out in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 3. 1, t. 1 and 4 may be recognised as successful if the applicant has successfully passed such examinations to an organisation authorised to conduct examinations for the acquisition of a registered auditor under the relevant legal order in a Member State of the European Union or in a third country. (4) The conditions and procedures for the recognition of the examinations under para. 3 shall be determined by the rules laid down in Article 3. 71, para. 3, p. 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4, which shall include: 1 and 3 words for public supervision of the registered auditors shall be deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u89	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 3 by importer and the text of the importer for § 4 by the amendments proposed by the Commission. Vote 95 MPs: for 94, against no, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u90	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 5 and 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u91	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the texts of the importer for paragraphs 5 and 6. They voted 107 MPs: for 107 against and abstentions there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u92	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 7 and 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u93	Are there any speeches? I shall put to the vote the texts of the importer for paragraphs 7 and 8. They voted 105 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 3. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u94	Paragraphs 9, 10, 11 and 12 of the importing Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 9 to 12 inclusive.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u95	Are there any speeches? I shall put the text of the importer to the vote for paragraphs 9 to 12 inclusive. Vote 108 MPs: 108 against and abstention no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u96	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 13 and 14. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 15 and 16.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u97	Are there any speeches? I shall put to the vote the texts of the importer for paragraphs 13 to 16 inclusive. Voted 103 MPs: 103, against and abstention. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u98	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17, and the words "In carrying out the financial audit' shall be deleted. The Commission shall support the importer's text for paragraphs 18, 19 and 20.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u99	Are there any speeches? I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 17 with the editorial amendments proposed by the Commission and the text of the importer for paragraphs 18, 19 and 20. Voted 103 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u100	Paragraphs 21, 22 and 23 by importer. The Commission shall support the text on paragraphs 21 to 23.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u101	Are there any speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the texts of the importer for paragraphs 21, 22 and 23. They voted 105 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 3. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u102	The Commission shall support the text for paragraphs 24 and 25. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 26: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 71 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2: (a) point 1 is amended as follows: "1." carrying out inspections to ensure the quality of the professional activity of the registered auditors; (b) point 2 is amended as follows: "2." carrying out investigations on complaints and alerts, as well as at its discretion, on infringements of Regulation (EU) No 537/2014 and this law; (c) in point 5, the words "c'. 36, para. 1, t. In the case of vehicles of categories M1, M2, N2, N2, N2, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N1 and N1 and N1 are 2. In para. 3: (a) point 2 is amended as follows: "2." adopt rules for carrying out inspections to ensure the quality of the professional activity of the registered auditors; (b) c. 4 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / (c) point 5 is amended as follows: It's five o'clock. adopt other rules and guidelines on the application of public supervision; (d) shall be established. 6 and 7: It's six. adopt regulations where provided for in this Law and issue instructions and instructions on the application of public supervision under art. 12, para. 2 and 3; 7. adopt rules for carrying out investigations for infringements of Regulation (EU) No 537/2014 and that law, including at least the following: (a) procedures for the acceptance of complaints and alerts for infringements and for taking action on them; (b) the protection of personal data of persons who provide information on alleged or actual infringements, as well as of persons suspected or likely to have committed an infringement; (c) procedures ensuring the right of defence of the alleged intruder, his right to be heard before the adoption of a decision concerning him and the right to an effective remedy before a court against any decision or measure relating to him; 3. In para. 4 is finally a comma and is added to this law in respect of public supervision under art. 12, para. 2 and 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u103	Are there any speeches? I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for paragraphs 24 and 25 and the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of Paragraph 26. 100 MPs voted: 99, none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u104	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 27: "The Bible says: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 77 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 2 words.............................................................................. 36, para. 1, t. In the case of vehicles of categories M1, M2, N2, N2, N2, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, (b) c. 6 the word "supplier' is replaced by "supplier'; (c) a new item shall be created. 10: ..10. may notify the audit committees of undertakings of public interest of the results of inspections or investigations carried out relating to binding financial audit commitments to those undertakings; (d) the so-called t. 10 becomes t. 11. 2. In para. 2 the word "Professional" is replaced by "Calendar." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 28, i.e. 1 concerning para. 3 words.............................................................................. 36, para. 1, t. In the case of vehicles of categories M1, M2, N2, N2, N2, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N1 and N1 and N1 are replaced by N1. 36, para. 1, t. 1.. 3
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u105	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 27 and the text of the importer for § 28, with the proposals for replacement made by the Commission. They voted 102 MPs: for 102, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u106	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 29. Under § 30, there is a proposal of the MP Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 30: ............................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 86 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 3, p. 1 after the word "supplier" shall be added "supplied" in the previous three years. 2. The creation of para. 4. In carrying out inspections, inspectors shall declare that there is no conflict of interest between them and the registered auditor inspected.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u107	Statements? I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 29 and the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 30. Vote 98 MPs: 97, against none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u108	The Commission shall support the importer's text for paragraphs 31 to 33 inclusive.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u109	Are there any speeches? I shall put the text of the importer to the vote for paragraphs 31, 32 and 33. Vote 99 MPs: For 98, no objection, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u110	The Commission proposes to create a new § 34: ................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 91 words.............................................................................. 36, para. 1, t. In the case of vehicles of categories M1, M2, N2, N2, N2, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 34, which becomes 35.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u111	Are there any speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 34 with a text according to the Commission Report, as well as the text of the importer for § 34, which shall become 35. 100 MPs voted: for 100, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u112	The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 35, which becomes § 36, i.e. 2 is amended as follows: "2." In para. 2 sentence first is finally added to the definitions under para. 1, t. 1 term (s) and third sentence (s) is deleted. The Commission proposes to create a new § 37: ...... 37........................................................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 96 words.............................................................................. 89, para. 2, p. In the case of vehicles of categories M1, M2, N2, N2, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 36, which shall become § 38.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u113	Are there any speeches? I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 35, which shall become § 36, with the amendments proposed by the Commission; and the Commission's proposal to create a new paragraph 37 with a text on the Commission Report; and the text of the importer for § 36, which shall become § 38. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u114	According to § 37 there is a proposal of the MP Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 37, which shall become § 39: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 107 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. The second sentence shall be created: the Annual Committee of the Enterprise under § 1, item 1. In addition to the additional provisions of the Act on Accounting, the functions assigned to it by law and to the funds managed by the undertaking may be fulfilled by the Act. 2. In para. 3 the word "Master" is replaced by "Bachelor." 3. In para. 4. (a) in the text before t. 1 a new sentence shall be created first: the Odite Committee of undertakings of public interest, except those meeting the criteria of art. 19th para. 2 and 3 of the Accounting Act consists of at least three members, including the President. (b) Previous sentences first and second become sentences second and third respectively; (c) c. 1 the words "a member of the management body, executive member of the supervisory authority' shall be replaced by "a member of the management or control body'; (d) c. 3 the words "Management or Supervisory Authority" shall be replaced by "Management or Control Authority"; (e) c. 4 the words "Management or supervisory authority" shall be replaced by "Management or control body" or "member of the audit committee." The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 38, which shall become § 40: ..... 40................... 40...................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 108 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 1 the words "Management and supervisory authorities' shall be replaced by "Management or Control Authorities'; (b) point 6 is amended as follows: It's six. be responsible for the selection procedure of the registered auditor and recommend his appointment with the exception of cases where the audited entity has a selection commission; where the undertaking has a selection commission, the audit committee shall monitor its work and shall, on the basis of its results, propose to the general meeting of shareholders or partners the award of the audit commitment in accordance with the requirements of art. 16 of Regulation (EU) No 53 (c) c. 7 after the word "Notifications" shall be added to its President and the words "Management and Supervisory Authorities" shall be replaced by "Management or Control Authorities"; (d) point 9 is amended as follows: Nine. draw up and, through its President, submit to the Commission by 31 May an annual report on its activities; the report shall be prepared in form and content according to the Commission's regulation. 2. In para. 3 the words "Management and supervisory authorities' shall be replaced by "Management or control bodies'.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u115	Are there any speeches? I shall put to the vote the amendments to paragraphs 37 and 38 which the Commission proposes and which become paragraphs 39 and 40 respectively. They voted 98 MPs: 98, no opposition and no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u116	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 39, which shall become § 41, by: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 concerning para. 2 words.............................................................................. 12, para. 2, p. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4 concerning para. 4 words by para. The following shall be replaced by the following: The following information is available in the The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 40, which shall become § 42: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 110 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in the text before t. 1 the words "in the case of inspection or investigation" shall be established and replaced by the words "in the case of inspection or investigation" shall be replaced by the words "in the case of inspection or investigation"; (b) point 16 is amended as follows: ..16. has failed to comply with the provisions of art. 89, para. 2, p. Those measures should be implemented in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European 2. In para. 2 texts before t. 1 is amended as follows: A registered auditor shall be punished with a fine of 500 to 3000 BGN. For individuals, or with a penalty of 500 to 5000 BGN. For legal persons and sole traders, where it is established that: 3. In para. 5 the number 4. A new para is being created. 8 and 9: s) Chairman of an audit committee of an undertaking of public interest which has failed to fulfil its obligations under art. 108, para. 1, t. 7 and 9 is punished with a fine of 500 to 3000 BGN. (9) Chairman of an audit committee of an undertaking of public interest which has failed to fulfil its obligations under art. 109, para. 4, is punished with a fine of 200 to 2000 BGN 5. Previously on AMC's... 8 " 11" became respectively. 10.. 13..... 13.........................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u117	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 39, which shall become § 41, with the proposals for replacement in the text made by the Commission; and the version of the Commission proposed for the text of § 40, which shall become § 42. They voted 93 MPs: 92, none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u118	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 41, which shall become § 43. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 42, which shall become § 44. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 43, which shall become § 45, in c. 2 concerning t. 14a the words "in terms of functions' shall be replaced by "in terms of powers'.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u119	Are there any speeches? I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for paragraphs 41 and 42, which shall become paragraphs 43 and 44 respectively; and the text of the importer for § 43 by importer, which shall become § 45, with the proposal for replacement made by the Commission. 90 MPs voted: for 89, against none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u120	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the importer's text for paragraphs 44 to 47, which shall become paragraphs 46 to 49 respectively.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u121	Are there any speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision; as well as the wording of the importer for paragraphs 44, 45, 46 and 47, which shall become paragraphs 46, 47, 48 and 49 respectively. Vote 96 MPs: 95, against no, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u122	The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 48, which becomes § 50, and the word "the law' is replaced by the "law'. Mr. President, I am making another procedural proposal to replace it with the entry into force.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u123	Got it. Could you continue with the other two paragraphs? Then we'll vote them out.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u124	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 49, which shall become § 51. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 50, which shall become § 52.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u125	Are there any speeches? I can't see. First, I put to the vote the proposal made by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova for substitution. 86 MPs voted: 85, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I am now voting on the text of the importer for § 48, which becomes § 50, with the proposal for replacement made by the Commission and the proposal that we have just adopted; and I am voting on the text of the importer for § 49, which becomes § 51; and § 50, which becomes § 52. They voted 93 MPs: 92, none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u126	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to set up § 53 "66: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Credit Institutions (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 56a The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 3: (a) c. 7 after the word "banks" shall be added to "payments" and "payments"; (b) To be created t. 13: "13." Minister of Foreign Affairs for the fulfilment of obligations arising from the country's membership in the United Nations, the Organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty and other international organisations, as well as from the country's participation in international treaties and international regimes. 2. Paragraph 5 is amended as follows: supposed access to the system of the authorities and institutions under para. 3, p. 1 "6" and so on. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. 156 of the Public Finance Act. The authorities and institutions under para. 3, p. 1 "6" and so on. 8 "13" establish and maintain a special register in which they record the checks carried out, and the records therein shall be kept for 5 years from the date of the inspection concerned. 3. Paragraph 10 is amended as follows: In the electronic information system can also be included specific to the accounts and safes of budgetary organizations and persons under art. 156 of the Public Finance Act, information provided by the banks and the Ministry of Finance, defined by the regulation under para. 8, after prior coordination with the Minister of Finance. Changes in the information system related to the receipt of such specific information shall be paid in accordance with the contract under para. 11. 4. In para. 11 the words "six" are replaced by "six" and "six" and "six" are replaced by "six" and "six" and "six" are replaced by "six" and § 54. In the Tax Insurance Procedure Code (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 74, para. 1 is created t. 8. It's 8 o'clock. a request from the Minister of Finance for the amount of public obligations of budgetary organisations within the meaning of § 1, item 1. 5 of the additional provisions of the Public Finance Act relating to its powers under the same law. § 55. In the Law on Measures against Money Laundering (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 73, para. 3 a new sentence is created second: a request made by a prosecutor by the special prosecutor's office is considered by the specialized criminal court. § 56. The proceedings pending at the time of the entry into force of this law for the imposition of a Preservation Order or forbade on requests made by prosecutors by the special prosecutor's office shall be examined by the courts in which they were initiated. § 57. In the Law on Corporate Income Tax (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 178, para. The third sentence is replaced by the second sentence of the following: the second sentence is replaced by the following: the second sentence is added by the following: the second sentence is added by the words "the Minister of Finance" and the words "the Minister of Labour and Social Policy" shall be replaced by the words "the Minister of Finance" shall be replaced by the words "the Minister of Labour and Social Policy" and shall be replaced by the words "the Minister of Finance" shall be replaced by the words "the Minister of Labour and Social Policy." 2. In the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Corporate Income Tax (SG, No. 96 from 2019) in § 22, para. 1, t. 2 of the transitional and final provisions, the words "or the improvement' shall be replaced by the approval or repair. § 58. In the Law on Local Taxes and Fees (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 61c, para. 1 after the word........................................................................................................ § 59. For 2020 for accommodation registered under the Tourism Act shall be subject to the amount of tourist tax fixed for 2020 in the relevant ordinance under art. 1, para. 2 of the Law on Local Taxes and Fees, for accommodations classified one star. § 60. In the Law on Taxes on Income of Individuals (prom., SG No. ...) in art. Paragraph 24 is created. 5. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 350000. § 61. In the Law on excises and tax warehouses (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13 is created. 3: The products covered by CN code 3814 are considered as energy products. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) c. 3 the words "s' and "s' and "s' are replaced by "s', "s', "s', "s', "s', "s', "s', "s', "s', "s', "s', "s', "s', "s', "s', "s', "s', "s', "s', "s', "s', "s', "s', "s', "s', "s', "s', "s', "s', "s', "s', (b) c. 4 the number 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 28, para. 1, t. 6 the words "Carrosine' shall be replaced by "kerosine', as well as lubricants and lubricants falling within CN code 3403 and products falling within CN code 3814. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 7 after the number (b) the creation of para. 13: The effective rate for lubricants and lubricants falling within CN code 3403 is BGN 646. for 1000 litres. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 33a, para. 1 after the words.1000 Kgs... for lubricants and lubricants of CN code 3403 is 0 BGN is added. for 1000 liters. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The 59th para is Products falling within CN code 3814 may also be produced in objects of excise-free end-users when packed within the meaning of the Consumer Protection Act up to 5 litres. § 62. (1) Manufacturers of energy products falling within CN code 3403 and 3814 which have not been subject to licensing under the Law on excises and tax warehouses until the date of entry into force of this Act, in the event that, within one month of its entry into force, an application and the necessary documents for the issue of a licence for the management of a tax warehouse may continue their activities under the same law until the Director of the Customs Agency is pronounced, but not later than 4 months after the entry into force of this law, subject to the provisions concerning the obligations of authorised warehouse holders. (2) Persons who have received an excise-free final consumer certificate for the production of products falling within CN code 3814 shall bring their activities into compliance with the requirements of art. 59, para. 6 of the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses within two months of the entry into force of this law or applying under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 63. In the Law on Value Added Tax (promise, SG No. ...) the following additions shall be made: 1. Art. 19th is created in Chapter 19. 163e: "Receipt of greenhouse gas emission allowances' Art. 163d. (1) For transfers of greenhouse gas emission allowances under Annex No 2, Part Three, to which recipients are persons not established in the territory of the country, the general rules of the law shall apply. (2) For transfers of greenhouse gas emission allowances under Annex No 2, Part Three with a place of execution within the territory of the country to which suppliers are persons registered for VAT purposes in another Member State, the general rules of the law shall apply. 2. In Annex No 2 to Chapter Nineteen, Part Three is created: I'm sorry, Part three: Deliveries for the transfer of greenhouse gas emission allowances as defined in Article 3 of Directive 2003/87/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 October 2003 establishing a scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading within the Community and amending Directive 96/61/EC which may be transferred in accordance with Article 12 of the Directive. § 64. (1) Where an advance payment for the transfer of greenhouse gas emission allowances under Annex No 2, Part Three of the Value Added Tax Act has been received by the entry into force of this Act for which tax treatment has been changed by the same law in respect of the person paying the tax and for which the tax event occurs after the day of the entry into force of that law, the supplier shall document the delivery by way of cancellation of the invoice issued for the advance and issue a new invoice indicating the entire tax base for the delivery. For annulment, a protocol shall be drawn up under art. 116, para. 4 of the Value Added Tax Act. (2) Where, until the entry into force of this law, an advance payment has been made for the transfer of greenhouse gas emission allowances under Annex No 2, Part Three of the Value Added Tax Act, for which tax treatment has been changed by the same law in respect of the person paying the tax and for which the tax event occurs after the day of the entry into force of that law, the applicant, a registered person under the Value Added Tax Act, is obliged to charge tax on the entire tax base of delivery, including for the advance payment made. (3) Where, until the entry into force of this law on the transfer of greenhouse gas emission allowances, no tax has been levied on the entire tax base of the supply, a supply tax shall be deemed to be required by the recipient and the supplier shall document the supply and apply para. 1 to 31 March 2020 (4) Paragraph 3 shall also apply to those who have not been concluded at the date of entry into force of this law administrative and judicial proceedings. § 65. The provisions of art. 163e and Part Three of Annex 2 to Chapter Nineteenth of the Value Added Tax Act shall apply until 30 June 2022. § 66. The law shall enter into force on the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union, with the exception of: 1. par. 57, p. 2 and 60, which shall enter into force from 1 January 2020; Paragraph 57, p. 1 which shall enter into force from 1 January 2021
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u127	Thank you. Statements? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You want a statement? You have the floor for a declaration, dear Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u128	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As you already know, yesterday, residents of Novi Iskar, of Bistritsa, went out to protest for being fined for unpaid wines on the North Tangent. Of course, as always the prime minister, worried that someone might go to protest, today the Council of Ministers calls the executive director of the Road Infrastructure Agency and orders him to go to the villages as a shouter, a shouter, to stand in the squares and to announce to the people: "You will not pay for wine, you will not pay for wine! Dear residents of Novi Iskar, Dolni Bogrov, Ivanane, Bankya, Pancharevo, German, Pasarel, Zhelenitsa, Bistritsa and others, know that you are being fined by the order of Prime Minister Boyko Borisov. [[GERB lines.]] Here is the decision of the Council of Ministers [[shows document]] , which lays down the lists of the roads on which to pay for wine. After this decision was taken on 12 January 2019, i.e. a year ago and something, the Prime Minister announced: "You will not be paid for a tart for the North Speed Tangent. ".. Mrs Fandakova announced that it will not be paid, and thanked the Prime Minister, as these roads will be included in the municipal road network. Today, the Prime Minister is, of course, trying to reject responsibility from himself and transfer it to the director of the API. But you must know the truth, dear Bulgarian citizens. The decision to determine these roads is by the Council of Ministers published, promulgated, signed by Prime Minister Borisov. Let's see what happens today. The director of the API has been sent to be head of the villages, taking responsibility for what the Prime Minister has personally ordered for these people. Dear Bulgarian citizens, Boyko Borisov brought us back to the Middle Ages. You must know that in the Middle Ages, in the Middle Ages, in particular, there was a position in the Middle Ages that announced management decisions in the squares, in the villages and in the people. Today we are the 21st century, the world is moving from high technology and artificial intelligence to the Middle Ages under the leadership of Boyko Borisov and begins a policy in which state decisions are announced to the people through the towns! However, Prime Minister, since you have made this decision by decision of the Council of Ministers, it is now good for you to go to the villages, announce it to the people and take responsibility! We also have an appeal to the state administration, specifically to Mr. Terziyski: people, have dignity. You cannot be called, to be crushed, to stand still and you to shout: Listen, Prime Minister! Have the courage to tell him in the eye: "What we are doing, we are doing at your disposal, Mr. Borisov, and the only way to change this is for the Council of Ministers to gather and change the decision by which he has appointed these settlements to pay a winemaker. "Now he will wash his hands with you again another administrator, another director of an agency, in order to be the sole authority all in white. Guys, how long are you gonna believe this? How long will you allow him to manipulate the entire society, lie and always come out the savior, the unifier, since he is the foundation of all this? Just a week ago, he said: "I do not know that the DANS have been listening to the Prime Minister. " Today he says to the API, "What are you doing? You're doing bad things to me and I'm going to clean you up now. - Listen to the rhetoric I'm going to clean you up! What are you cleaning them for, Mr. Borisov? For fulfilling decisions of the Council of Ministers? People, don't tolerate this humiliating attitude towards the Bulgarian people anymore! These manipulations, these suggestions, because they are piling up everyone on your back, you pay from your own little money for all the will and sole dictatorship of Prime Minister Borisov. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u129	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. We continue with the speeches. Mr. Zarkov, you have the floor. Colleagues, we will listen to Minister Avramova, and then we will continue with the speeches on the topic.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u130	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Regarding the wine exemption case of part of the Republican road network within Sofia Municipality, I would like to submit some information at the request of MPs. Firstly, this is a case which is currently being considered by the Sofia Municipality and the Road Infrastructure Agency, as negotiations are under way. The Republican road network is subject to payment of a wine charge and part of it will be tolled, i.e. a toll for road vehicles over 3,5 tonnes will also be paid. In the Republican road network, the wine system was introduced many years ago. The paper tart has been valid since 2004, I think it has been introduced, and the paper tart in the scope within which a decision has been taken since December 2018 has been applicable to all these roads. The truth is that the intelligent system that we are introducing as a reform of the road sector leads to better control over the crossing of the Republican road network and this better control has troubled the people in whom tensions were escalated yesterday. I would like to ask not to politicise this issue because it is a matter of negotiations between Sofia Municipality and the Road Infrastructure Agency. At the moment the negotiations, because an exemption from a fee without payment will not be available, are rather in the direction of a retribution of Sofia Municipality to be included in the maintenance of these roads through the budget of the Municipality. Such an opportunity will be available to the other municipalities in Bulgaria where the mayors say in writing to the Road Infrastructure Agency that they want to take over the support of part of the Republican road network, such sections being exempt from wine charges. You can understand that the Road Infrastructure Agency is supporting the Republican roads in Bulgaria with the revenue from wine fees, and from March 1st with the revenue from the toll system. I would definitely like to say that fined by the settlements that have passed through these road sections, there is no. The system is intelligent and there is an opportunity, as the negotiations are under way, that no one is fined and no one has received an electronic ticket. You know very well, even though you addressed the Bulgarian citizens and announced that you were being fined. No, they don't fine you. Dear Bulgarian citizens, negotiations are under way between Sofia Municipality and the Road Infrastructure Agency. They will be finalised in the coming days and the Road Infrastructure Agency, respectively the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, will submit a request for a new solution to the Council of Ministers, in which it will remove from the scope of the paid road network with tarts these roads, for which municipalities will commit to their support with a concluded agreement. One more piece of information. At today's meeting of the Council of Ministers was adopted the scope of the roads to be covered, i.e. there will be a fee on a toll basis. That's 3115 km. 803 km is highways; 2312 km is first class, and in the list tol segments will actually be 6050 km long. The new updated tariff under the Agreement, which was reached with the branch in Bulgaria, was adopted for a gradual introduction of the Tol system. So today the tariff, which has lower charges, and the second-class roads at this stage are at a zero rate. The politicisation of the issue of releasing part of the Republican road network from payment of a bill and the tension that was in two settlements has also led to vandalism, which I think we all have no desire to encourage and demand aggression from people, and there is already a flex frame of the toll system that has equipment that has cameras. So I appeal: this issue of introducing the toll system and the wine system is not political. I believe that all of us have long been united around the fact that we should not politicise this reform and the demands of some people to travel without a wine plate being mounted as a political topic and exploited as a political topic. This is more likely to lead to these vandalism manifestations and to greater tensions. Thank you for your understanding and I hope that you as MPs who have been selected from these areas will explain to people that no one is fined, there will be an Agreement between Sofia Municipality and the Road Infrastructure Agency and the Municipality will make a commitment to pay for the maintenance of these roads. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u131	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. Procedure? Is it the way it's supposed to be?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u132	Yeah. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am doing a procedure in the manner of conduct, because, putting the question of Minister Avramova's hearing in the morning, we really wanted Bulgarian citizens to understand what is happening in the country. Minister Avramova has come here. This is to you as you lead the meeting...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u133	Yes, I'm listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u134	...and explained to us that this thing wasn't supposed to be politicized. The decision by which these fees were introduced, here it is by the Council of Ministers [[shows]] is signed by Mr. Borisov. Mr. Borisov, as far as I know, is a politician. There's no way we can speak to each other in any language other than political. But what we have understood, Mr. Chairman, and you have not stopped the minister, is to show us once again what chaos there is. First he said that since 2004, these citizens paid, then he said that last year they had a deal and everything was decided, and this year there was no fine. However, yesterday API representative said: On the first day of February 17th, there are 805 punished employees.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u135	Mr. Svilensky, to me!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u136	...that's not gonna happen. Either that minister who left didn't communicate with the subordinates, or the minister didn't communicate, or standing next to him, listening to what he was saying, but we...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u137	Please, turn to me!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u138	Well, to you, Mr. Chairman. If you can, you can come down. You are still a member of the Committee on Regional Development, let us explain to the Bulgarian citizens will they pay, won't they pay, does anyone care about them? Because Mr. Terziyski may already be screaming in some squares, but the minister from here didn't say anything, didn't explain anything, brought the system into even more chaos 2004 - 2012. Here is the decision, honourable Members. [[shows]] in which it is written that from Sofia to Bankya Mr. Borisov should come home with a wine bottle. There it is, it's written!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u139	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u140	The things Mrs. Minister has told us, I couldn't understand. I reserve the right to invite her back tomorrow...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u141	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u142	...to update his information and inform us more accurately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u143	Thank you. I'll give you my word, Mr. Genov. Mr. Svilensky, I thank Minister Avramova for giving this information anyway. It was clear that until the negotiations with Sofia Municipality were completed, nothing concrete could be given, but she came and gave us enough information. Mr. Genov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u144	Mr. Chairman, as you said at the beginning of the session Mr. Shopov, the curves are on you. You have allowed the minister here to accuse us of almost politically emphasizing the people. You should have explained to her, Mr. Chairman, that these negotiations have been going on for over a year and a half. There have been cases where Israelis and Palestinians negotiated more quickly, and here it turns out that the Road Infrastructure Agency and Sofia Municipality cannot agree on one issue. We didn't hear, Mr. Chairman, I don't know if you heard, thanked for the physical presence here of the Minister, but we didn't hear anything specific from her. When will this issue be resolved, how will it be resolved, how will these people travel? To accuse BSP that, as a result of our demands, people went to cut posts, to set off cameras and so on, excuse me, this is a little more than insolence, and you should have taken attitude to this issue. And doesn't all this tell you, Mr. Chairman, that carelessness and chaos in the introduction of the toll system continue. I remember how the last delay from this tribune when the deadline for introduction was March 1st...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u145	Now connect my place to this deadline.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u146	...said it would be April 1st to be a more serious date to activate the toll system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u147	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Mr. Prodanov, come in. Mrs. Yankova, I'll give you the floor as well. Are you going to charge me for procedure too? [[Reply.]] Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u148	Dear Mr. Chairman, from the beginning, I will say in the manner in which I am accusing you of what I am accusing you of. The Minister called on the MPs elected from these regions to be such a representative, to go and explain to the people that there would be no problem. We, Mr. Chairman, have been explaining to them for a year and more that the government, dominated by GERB, and Sofia Municipality, dominated by GERB, to sit down, to understand and to clear this problem. We explain to people that it will break the tension that burns refrigerators, TVs and we promise them that the management will solve this issue, but for two years it does not solve it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u149	Where am I here, Mr. Prodanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u150	We promise these same people that in Kazicene they will make an underpass under the Crossroads because they become victims there, but you promise us, but you lie to us, and you lie to them.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u151	Mr. Prodanov, please charge me with something.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u152	So I wanted to say what I started at the beginning of the procedure, I wanted to tell you that when a minister came and called on an MP like me, chosen from this area, to go explain to the people, you told him to go and solve people's problems, because that's why he was chosen and not to come here and give us advice. That's what I wanted to tell you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u153	Thank you. Mrs. Yankova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u154	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Chairman, I am addressing you because you had to organise an actual hearing of the Minister to ask him questions so that he too could become aware of the situation in which the entire Council of Ministers was placed, as hostages are the Bulgarian citizens. I'll explain why you were wrong. The Prime Minister and the mayor of Sofia made populist political promises to the capitalists. The wine system and the toll system are in place right now, only after these populist political promises people came out right because they thought they were their leaders who didn't lie. Here I would like to share with you that we are once again in a vacuum and are hostages, as members of Parliament, to this type of address. There is a long period ahead for municipalities to be hostages again, to pay money, but they accepted their budgets. And the state accepted its budget. And now where are the municipalities gonna get the money to pay for something that those people who run the country didn't synchronize their actions? We continue to be in manual management, to be of populism and this is harmful to Bulgarian citizens and therefore there should be a hearing with a solution here. There's still a question. Tol system is introduced as it should be introduced. We are not opposed to the introduction of the system, but the institutions cannot abuse the fates of the poor Bulgarian citizens. That's why I'm addressing you for making a mistake. We had to have a bigger debate on this issue in order to clarify the issue that is important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u155	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. My only place, here I found it in the Rules of Procedure. In fact, what you are proposing is carried out in another way and you know it. I can see by your reaction that you know that. That is why Minister Avramova's information has been served in this way, so we have acted in the way in which the Rules allow us. Dear colleagues, we will continue after one interruption of work for 40 minutes. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u156	Colleagues, please take your seats. There's a statement from Mr. Zarkov. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov. [[Noise and lines.]] I'll give you some time, Mr. Zarkov. You made a correct remark that there are 15 paragraphs that have been reported. I'll give you a little more time to speak up.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u157	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Before the break, there was a dispute over whether or not certain people had to pay the tarts. The Prime Minister reacted sharply to the Council of Ministers. It was said here from the stands and it became clear that there is also a solution on this issue to this same Council of Ministers. One reason to come to such situations is the way in which the rules are made in this country. The decisions of the Council of Ministers and what concerns us the laws. And here's an example. Today we are looking at the Independent Financial Audit Act adopted completely unanimously at first reading, prepared by the Council of Ministers with impact assessment and conciliation procedure adopted unanimously at first reading, because the changes to these audits are imperative, and what happens? The report comes to § 50 and someone there appear 15 other proposals under different laws introduced by Mrs. Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs between first and second reading and which the rapporteur Mrs. Angelova, I think, with a very equal tone, in a half-empty hall without anyone understanding made changes to the Tax Insurance Procedure Code; introduced new taxes; made changes to the Corporate Income Tax Act; taxed already businesses that had previously not been taxed, such as Airbnb and Booking, and others for which debate is being conducted everywhere except in the National Assembly; made a new way of trading quotas and greenhouse gas emissions, did what not! Nobody understands anything, doesn't say anything or pretends not to understand! Well, we understand very well! And I'll give you just one more example. Specifically under § 55 "The Law on Measures against Money Laundering." A request made by a prosecutor by the Special Prosecutor's Office is examined by the Specialized Criminal Court, Mrs. Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs in the Financial Audit Act tell us. Where is the jurisdiction of the Special Prosecutors and the Special Prosecutors, where is the financial audit, you explain it to me!? In one such procedure, when these laws are adopted at practically one reading, when we have 5 or 6 minutes to take account of each of them, how and to whom do I say the following things? Do the importers know, do they even have an idea of the controversial caselaw that has been developing on this issue for years and has led to several interpretive decisions? For those who do not know, an interpretation is the case where our supreme judges judge that there is mixed caselaw and gather at a general meeting, in the case of the Criminal College, in order to decide exactly how the law should be applied. But there is not for you, the group of MPs, conflicting practices, there are no judges who have considered that the issue is complicated enough that everyone should gather to solve it! No, with one sentence between first and second readings in a law that has nothing to do with the other, with the equal tone of two to the opposite! [[Radio.]] Why? Why? Do you mean the question: do you know the difference between art. 72 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and its character, and the measures imposed under it, and art. 12, para. 3 of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering, which has become art. 73, para. 3, which you're now changing? And do you know why the judges have been thinking so much about this? You have no idea! The importers have no idea! We can't discuss it! The judges who were sitting, the lawyers who appeared under these rules, the special prosecutors themselves who were concerned, had no opportunity to give an opinion on this issue. In 2012, the Supreme Court of Cassation adopted this interpretive decision and explained that the protective measures under art. 72 are measures of procedural coercion. In order to be imposed, there must always be an accusation. This is not the case with the measures under the Law against money laundering that you are now concerned with. There may not be any charges filed, so they have accepted that the court that should look at them is the civil court, and the order by which they should be viewed is the Civil Procedure Code. You say here that this is what the Specialized Criminal Court will be doing. Why? The judges have continued to work on this matter and the lawyers have continued these arguments for three more years. And another interpretive decision is reached in 2015 a general meeting of the Criminal College of the ICC interprets precisely the paragraph and the provision that you are taking today. And this interpretive decision, dear Mrs. Stoyanova, I see that you are here, is the exact opposite of what you are proposing! Now, I understand a man to have self-esteem, I understand everything to have... [[Heckling]] Don't say the time, sir, because I'm talking 14 paragraphs! And I'm entitled to five minutes each.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u158	No, that's it! Don't!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u159	At least don't stop time! Because there's no other discussion anyway...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u160	Mr. Zarkov, when I stop your time, then you will protest. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u161	I am using this case to argue once again that no other discussion is possible in the procedure that has been chosen, so I ask for your patience. I'm committed not to overdoing it. Quite the opposite of what our legal community, expressed in the end in a ruling of the Supreme Court, has decided! You say the opposite today! You're right, but explain why, explain where it's coming from. And one more thing. I said the Supreme Court. It's up to you to follow it. The legislator may reverse an interpretive decision. And we have proposed the reversal of such decisions, but justified also after quite severe debates. We've managed to convince you sometimes even in them! What about the Constitutional Court? Do you have any idea of the Constitutional Decision 10/2011 when the Constitutional Court was asked to say whether the Special Court is constitutionally compliant and the Constitutional Court said that this court could be constitutionally consistent, specifying that it is special, but not special, because as a special one would be banned by the Bulgarian Constitution! And one of the things why the court says so is that the general procedural rules applicable to this court, which also apply to other criminal courts. I think that if this proposal is accepted on the demands of the Law on measures against money laundering for special prosecutors and competent to be the special court, that, apart from the reasons of the supreme judges, will also give a certain element of extraordinaryness to this special court. With your thoughtless proposal to please something or someone in order to rule, or whatever your motives may be, or to help a specific case, such as is usually the case when such things appear in laws where they do not belong, you are questioning not only the decisions of the supreme judges who have been sitting and discussing these matters in depth. You question the constitutionality of the entire Special Court, which you are so proud of, and you finally leave in all doubt that there is no right in this country, because at any given moment someone who does not understand or understand very well comes here and with one feature crosses the principles that we have achieved for years! This is the case for the changes to the penal codes that you submit; this is the case for the different decisions you are taking today with the headlines you are announcing, and so is this law! It's a complete shame! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u162	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u163	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Zarkov, you have finished your speech by saying that there is no right in this country. I'd say there's no country. What is Bulgaria, according to the Constitution, a republic with parliamentary rule, right? Do you believe in Parliament that we make any decisions here? That's why I'm making a line for you. You shouldn't blame your colleagues on the right side of the room. Nothing depends on their will. They're just here to do the will of a man who's not in this room and doesn't like to come to this room, so don't blame the coworkers. They are here, they have a mission to do the will of one person, so the problem is this person, and while he is in charge of the state, it will continue to happen in the same way. This is a style of management, style of work and he can never change until the face of the state changes. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u164	Thank you, dear Mr. Prodanov. Second line, please, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u165	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague Zarkov, I cannot agree with you that the legislator is unable to adopt legislative decisions, whether contrary to an interpretation of the Supreme Court of Cassation or respectively of the Supreme Administrative Court. Otherwise, we will not be a parliamentary republic, we will be something different, and then there will be no longer a need for Parliament to actually sit down and adopt changes in procedural laws, but we can directly copy them or directly give them a regulatory force, only that is not the case. We are a republic with parliamentary rule. It is Parliament who decides whether it will adopt the relevant interpretation as a legislative initiative, and as a legislative position, it will establish it in a law, it will adopt it, or it will not agree to such an interpretation of the law. This is the will of the parliamentary majority. I don't see any drama in that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u166	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Third line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u167	Honourable Chairman, Honourable Replicators! I'm starting backwards. Dear Mr. Mitev, Bulgaria is the rule of law, which means that the rules apply to everyone, including those who create them. The National Assembly shall have the right to make amendments to the laws. He has the right to make a reversal of interpretation practice with a change in law, but he has to do this law by the rules. One law is passed on two readings, there are deadlines for its discussion. These fourteen laws, which we are now replacing with Transitional and Final Provisions, are essentially adopted at one reading and without any discussion. Furthermore, the proposals between first and second readings of the MPs must be within the scope of the bill adopted at first reading. Is it true, or is it not true? Where is the scope of the financial independent audit and the competence of the Special Court? Where is the scope of the financial independent audit and the new fees? Where's the joint? So, Mr. Prodanov, it's not about whether we're a country or not. It is not about whether only Boyko Borisov is responsible. We need to know that everyone here is responsible. They are responsible personally and together for what they do. We are responsible for whether we saw it and reacted. Everyone has to bear their own responsibility! Unfortunately, however, in Bulgaria, the more we make laws, the more people feel that they are living in lawlessness, because we, our attitude here to the Law, is the attitude that tomorrow will be that of ordinary people on the street, and our attitude to the Law is what we see now. I'm not gonna stop saying that while I'm here! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u168	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u169	Thank you, Madam President. I am not speaking, I am making a procedure because I think Mr. Zarkov made a very reasoned statement on the proposal. My procedure is in the manner of conduct and it is to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u170	Why again?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u171	Madam President, because in you is my only hope to stop this thing that is happening in Parliament. We have always witnessed, during the adoption of other laws, one, two, three laws being changed into transitional and final provisions, but we had not come to 14 laws being changed. Parliamentism, Madam President, is long gone from this House. I don't know which way I'm calling Mrs. Daritkova, when I become chairman, let's try a little bit to restore parliamentaryism and try to gain authority. I see we're down to 20% by the last survey.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u172	Your time. What should the chairman do?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u173	My procedure is in the manner that we all have on our shoulders, and not to stand and call, not to say the time, but to think with our heads, which we all have on our shoulders, and not to press the buttons by law that we have not read, but to first read the laws, to discuss them with the society that we must carry out them, to implement the Rules of the National Assembly, which is the Law of this State, and then here to vote them. This is the procedure, Mr. Lazarov. Since you cannot understand it, my procedure is for Mrs Karayancheva not to put this paragraph to a vote, to have any impact on you as President of this institution, to realize where you are and what you are voting for, to stop violating the Constitution, the laws and regulations of the National Assembly, which is a Law in this State. This is my appeal to all and to you, Madam President, that you no longer make such precedents with 14 laws. I just wonder why all the laws that are included in the Programme by the end of the month are not in place and why we should vote on them now in § 53 and perhaps conclude the activities of the National Assembly. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u174	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. There's one more procedure in the way it's handled. [[Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria "Can't be a procedure"]] Procedure in the manner of conducting Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u175	Madam President, I do not wish to abuse the procedures in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u176	You didn't use it, Mr. Lazarov, so one piece of advice from you is enough.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u177	No. Here, on this side, have sufficient use of this procedure in the manner in which the President is led. The colleague could have said what Mr. Zarkov said, but the abuse of rights is obviously very pleasing to this part of a group.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u178	That's the way it is, Lazarov!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u179	That's for me.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u180	The colleague did not explain in the procedure to you, in a remark to you on what basis the President and on which text of the Rules, by which text of the Constitution, because here are...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u181	The one by which you propose § 53!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u182	Do not engage in conversation with the Chamber, Mr. Lazarov. Continue the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u183	I'm not going in, I'm saying it, but there are some people here who are still unclear.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u184	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u185	So to which text of the Rules, to which text of the Constitution, under which law there are lawyers and in the left part of the Chamber, most of the colleagues are quality lawyers, on which text will the President of the National Assembly not put to the vote? That was the chairman's recommendation. But, Madam President, don't put it to the vote! Madam President, we are not at a congress of the party that colleagues represent! There they can change their rules, their president can do whatever he wants, if they want, make a choice by machine voting, if they want with counterfeit ballots there can! This is the National Assembly and the President does not have such powers.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u186	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. [[Applause from GERB.]] Mr. Shopov, come in. The way you're running things?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u187	No, on the subject. [[Laughs, laughs.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u188	Ah, great speech, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u189	Dear colleagues of BSP, I have very often dissatisfied with this law-making method, which has been applied many times especially in this National Assembly. It is not new, in all the national meetings it has been made by the government, but in this National Assembly it has acquired ugly dimensions. You remember when the Simeonovians were introduced into the country that the text was pushed by Mr. Simeonov between two readings, so now Bulgaria has become officially a gastarbayer state. What I spoke to you about then and pleaded for parliamentaryism remained, just like that, an empty sound, and you didn't support me even though you are opposition and you should be the corrective for these exact things. Now let's measure rightly or wrongfully, fellow Members! What is the situation according to our rules? You are absolutely right, there is no doubt that in the Commission in question everything has always been at the limit of conflicting with the Constitution. There are financiers, economists who, without any legal control, create legal wonders, especially with the power of some laws, regarding others, transitional and concluding provisions, and what kind of food is in the country's state budgets, I do not want to explain to you. I've tried to be correct in this regard, and that was one of the reasons why I wasn't on this committee because it's clear that it annoys. It became a village without dogs. Now we are in such a situation that no matter how right you are, according to these rules, nothing can be done. Yes, these are serious and gross violations on which you can express political opinions, views, pour yourself before the electorate, make reasonable arguments, but there is no penalty in these hypotheses and these operatives. The lawyers will understand. What needs to be done, however, is that there are other institutions in the country that have to take on their role. He has a veto right. We know by whom and who, he must become in his role, because he cannot fail to notice how he is legalized at a number of national meetings. I'm not just talking about this National Assembly. You did the same thing the last time you ruled Oresharski, not to mention during the Triple Coalition. That's one option. The other option is that there is a Constitutional Court. Write more often, make suggestions, you have 48 members of parliament so that you can bring these decisions into the Constitutional Court. I don't see any obstacle to that. Today, the benefit of what you have done is to start a debate. I have put the issue on many issues in this National Assembly, which have remained unresolved, if you will, with my full understanding of what is a quorum in the legal sense...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u190	Mr. Shopov, let me just point out that you are not talking about the Law at the moment, but you are talking about it in the manner of conduct, and you have said a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u191	I am trying wisely to put things so that the problem is resolved and out of this situation. These are the roads. Many times I have invited the opposition to enter its true role. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u192	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. A line? Here you are, Mr. Zarkov. We'd love to hear from you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u193	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Shopov, in terms of veto, this parliament is a veto record. Unfortunately, these debates do not become more quality than the next, and this is not a question for the President and his veto, but for our Chamber. On the issue of the Constitutional Court, we use it very often. Unfortunately, I have to inform you that just a few weeks ago, the Constitutional Court on a similar case ruled with six to six, that is, it failed to reject the way changes were made to a number of laws through the National Health Insurance Fund Budget Act. Six out of six there are enough interesting opinions that can be read on this issue. The President has advised and asked, and I advise you not as much as the importers of the proposals. In essence: well, you chose this procedure, well, you give it to a punch as you do, but say at least a few words, honourable importers, why would the Special Court be competent in these cases, why do local taxes and fees require changes, why do you touch VAT? Explain as importers: what exactly do you do, why do you do it, where do these suggestions come from and where do they go? Come on, get to the point!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u194	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Second line? Mr. Danchev, come in for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u195	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Shopov, you have actually rightly said that the Rules and Constitution of the country allow a procedure in which the MPs make proposals for changes in the submitted bills between first and second readings. This is correct, but we are talking about the fact that you should have paid attention to the abuse of this procedure to colleagues. It is obvious that this procedure was invented to make technical adjustments where necessary, and not to change their meaning or to make changes in n the number of other laws that do not have any butchery on this subject. It's on the one hand. On the other hand, it was appropriate to point out that all changes should be accompanied by an impact assessment which, of course, cannot not include the analysis of the stakeholders. Where are these parts of this procedure? Why do colleagues save them? Because we want to save time on the legislative process or because we want to hide something?! Let the government respond. This is not just a question for you, Mr. Shopov, but in your speech you neglected to mention it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u196	Thank you, dear Mr. Danchev. Any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. We're going to vote. I put to the vote the new paragraphs 53 to 66. They voted 115 MPs: 77, against 36, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Nedyalkov, for a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u197	Madam President, honourable Members! My negative vote relates to a large part of what was said in this discussion and to the adoption of many changes in the laws, the transitional and final provisions that cannot be inserted into the essence of the Law at all. My suggestion is that such controversial moments should be made available to the Advisory Council to the President of the National Assembly to decide on these issues and to improve the work in our legislative activity. Thank you for your attention. [[Reply: There is no such advice!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u198	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. [[Noise and lines.]] There is this council, just the chairmen of the committees to address the questions to it. The Council exists. The committees shall have the corresponding budget to be used by the Advisory Council. [[Heckling]] Moving on to the next point: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ACCEPT PROCEDURAL RULES FOR CONDITIONS AND PROCUREMENT OF CANDIDATES FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF NATIONAL HEALTH SERVICES, THE PRESENTATION AND PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF DOCUMENTS AND THE HEARING OF CANDIDATES IN THE COMMISSION FOR HEALTH AND THE PROCEDURE FOR THE SELECTION OF PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTION. Mrs. Daritkova, come and introduce us to the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u199	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I give your attention: ♪ I can't believe on a draft Decision adopting procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates as governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and the hearing of candidates in the Committee on Health and the procedure for selection by the National Assembly At its regular meeting held on 13 February 2020, the Health Commission examined and discussed a draft Decision adopting procedural rules for conducting a public procedure under art. 93 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the election of the Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Zheny Nacheva. Deputy Minister of Health, representatives of word and patient organizations in the field of health. The President of the Commission Dr. Daritkova informed the MPs that on the basis of art. 19th para. 1 of the Health Insurance Act The National Assembly elects a governor of the National Health Insurance Fund. In accordance with art. 93, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall be made following a public procedure. The procedure shall be conducted on the basis of the rules of procedure adopted by the National Assembly drawn up by the committee responsible for each election, according to art. 93, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. During the discussion, the national representative Dr. Valentina Naydenova made a proposal for a change in Section I and Section VI of the draft Decision on the adoption of procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates as governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Health and the procedure for selection by the National Assembly. She proposed in Section I, t. 2, b. (s) to be amended as follows: (e) a statement in accordance with Annex 2 to the decision that the applicant is aware of the requirements for appointment and occupation of a public office, as required by art. 21, para. 1, t. 1-11 of the Health Insurance Act and of art. 35, para. 1, t. 1 of the Anti-Corruption Act and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. In Section VI, point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 words are broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. Following a discussion and a vote, members of the Health Commission rejected the proposals made. On the basis of the discussion and the vote on the following results, the Committee on Health proposed to the National Assembly to examine and adopt the following draft Decision: Project! DECISION adopting procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates as governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and the hearing of candidates in the Committee on Health and the procedure for selection by the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 93, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in relation to Art. 19th para. 1 of the Health Insurance Act HAS DECIDED It shall adopt procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates as governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and the hearing of candidates in the Committee on Health and the procedure for election by the National Assembly: I. Offering of candidates for governor of the National Health Insurance Fund 1. Proposals as a candidate for governor of the National Health Insurance Fund may be made by the parliamentary groups. The proposals shall be submitted in writing through the President of the National Assembly to the Committee on Health within 5 days of the adoption of these Rules of Procedure by the National Assembly. 2. The proposals as a candidate for governor of the National Health Insurance Fund shall be accompanied by written reasons that justify the good professional reputation of the applicant. The following documents shall apply to the proposals: (a) the written consent of the applicant to be proposed for the post of model in accordance with Annex 1 to the decision; (b) a detailed CV; (c) certified by the applicant a copy of a diploma for acquired higher education with an educational and qualification degree of Master; (d) documents certifying acquired additional specializations and qualifications; (e) documents certifying that the applicant meets the requirement of art. 19th para. 3, p. 2 of the Health Insurance Act for professional experience in health, banking, insurance or insurance management; (f) a statement in accordance with Annex 2 to the decision on the existence and absence of the circumstances under art. 21, para. 1, t. In the case of non-financial corporations, the institution shall report to the competent authority of the Member State where the credit institution is established. (g) written consent of the applicant under art. 27, para. 2 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the Declaration of Membership of Bulgarian Citizens to State Security and the Intelligence Services of the Bulgarian People's Army according to Annex 3 to the Decision. II. Public disclosure of documents 1. The proposals under Section I, p. 1 and the documents referred to in Section I, t. 2 shall be published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly no later than 14 days before the hearing. 2. The publication of the proposals and the documents under point (c) of paragraph 1 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 shall be carried out in accordance with the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act. All data in the documents of the applicants as manager of the National Health Insurance Fund, which are personal data within the meaning of the Personal Data Protection Act, shall be deleted. 3. Non-profit legal entities registered for public use and professional organisations may submit opinions to the Committee on Health on the proposed candidates within three days of the hearing, including questions to be addressed to them. 4. The mass media may send to the Committee on Health matters to the candidates to be placed on them no later than three days before the hearing of the candidates. 5. Anonymous opinions and alerts shall not be considered. 6. Opinions and questions shall be sent by post to the following address: gr. Sofia, Pl. ==References===External links==*Principles Alexander I "No 1, Health Committee or e-mail address: health_committee@parliament.bg. 7. The opinions and the questions on this matter. 3 and 4 shall be published on the specialized thematic site on the website of the National Assembly within three days of their receipt, subject to the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act and the Classified Information Protection Act. III. Perform a preliminary check under the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army 1. Candidates as governor of the National Health Insurance Fund shall be checked for belonging to the bodies under art. 1 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The request for prior verification under art. 27, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army are made by the President of the Committee on Health. 2. The results of the verification under point 1. 1 shall be published on the specialized thematic site on the website of the National Assembly. IV. Verification of submitted documents for admission of applicants to a hearing 1. The Committee on Health shall, within three days of the expiry of the period referred to in Section I. 1 sends a list of candidates as governor of the National Health Insurance Fund at the Directorate-General for Civic Registration and Administrative Service to the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works to check citizenship as required by art. 21, para. 1, t. 1 of the Health Insurance Act and the absence of the legal restriction under art. 21, para. 1, t. 2 of the Health Insurance Act. The circumstances of art. 21, para. 1, t. 3 of the Health Insurance Act is established by the administration of the National Assembly. 2. The Committee on Health at its meeting shall verify the documents submitted. 3. The Committee on Health may require additional information from both applicants and the competent authority concerned. 4. Candidates who have not submitted the documents under Section I shall not be allowed to be heard. 2. 5. Following the verification, the Health Commission shall draw up a list of applicants admitted to a hearing. The list shall be prepared in alphabetical order of the applicant's own names and shall be published immediately on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly. V. Hearing of candidates 1. The Committee on Health shall only hear the applicants admitted, and the order shall be determined according to the list set out in Section IV. 5. 2. The hearing is public and is held in an open meeting of the Committee on Health. 3. Each candidate shall be submitted by the importer of the proposal for the selection of the manager of the National Health Insurance Fund in an exhibition within two minutes. The presentation also includes details of specific preparation, motivation, public reputation and public support for the applicant. 4. Each candidate shall be given the opportunity to present himself, including to supplement data from his professional biography and to present his views on the development of the activities of the National Health Insurance Fund in an exhibition within 15 minutes. 5. The President of the Committee on Health shall present in summary the opinions and questions received by the persons referred to in art. 93, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, with the statement for each question and opinion within two minutes. 6. Members of the National Assembly may ask questions to the candidates, including questions contained in the opinions of the persons referred to in art. 93, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, the exhibition for each issue is up to two minutes. 7. The candidates shall answer their questions referred to in paragraph 1. 5 and so on. Six in an exhibition in ten minutes. 8. A full stenographic protocol shall be drawn up from the hearing, which shall be published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly. 9. The Committee on Health shall draw up and submit to the National Assembly a Report on the results of the hearing of candidates for the appointment of the Director of the National Health Insurance Fund with content as defined in art. 93, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. 10. When several candidates have been heard for the position of Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, the Report under the heading 9 a list of candidates who participated in the hearing shall be applied in alphabetical order of their own names. The report shall also be accompanied by a draft decision on the selection of each candidate for the position of Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund. 11. The report of the Committee on Health on the results of the hearing of candidates for the occupation of the National Health Fund Governor shall be made available to the Members of the National Assembly no later than 24 hours before the start of the meeting at which the applications will be voted and shall be published on the specialized thematic website of the National Assembly. VI. Election of the Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund by the National Assembly 1. The meeting, which holds the election of the Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. The proposed candidates are present at the meeting by decision of the National Assembly. 2. The Committee on Health presents to the National Assembly a report on the hearing of candidates for the post of Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund. 3. Each candidate shall be submitted by the importer of the selection proposal in an exhibition within two minutes. 4. Following the submission of the Report under point (c) of paragraph 1, the Commission shall, by means of implementing acts, adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of the report referred to in point (a) of Article 3 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council. 2 and candidates in accordance with the order of point 2. 3 The National Assembly shall hold debates on the submitted nominations under the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. During the debates, the Members of the National Assembly may raise questions to the candidates. 5. After the discussions are concluded, candidates as governor of the National Health Insurance Fund may make speeches and answer the questions raised to them in an exhibition within 10 minutes. 6. The vote is evident through the computerised voting system. 7. In cases where there are several candidates for the position of Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, the vote shall be carried out in alphabetical order on the names of the candidates, unless the National Assembly decides otherwise. 8. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. If several candidates have received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly, the candidate who received the most votes is elected. 9. If two or more candidates have received an equal number of votes, a re-vote shall be held between them. 10. Where none of the candidates receives the necessary votes, a re-vote shall be held in which the two candidates who have received the most votes for................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 11. If none of the candidates receives the necessary votes in the second vote, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. VII. Obligation to declare incompatibility under art. 35, para. 1, t. 1 and a change in the declared circumstances under art. 35, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on Countering Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property 1. Upon completion of the selection procedure under Section VI, the elected governor of the National Health Insurance Fund shall submit a declaration of incompatibility under art. 35, para. 1, t. 1 of the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property in connection with art. 21, para. 1, t. 6 - 11 of the Health Insurance Act in accordance with Annex 4 to the Decision. 2. In the event of a change in the declared circumstances of the declaration referred to in point (a) of paragraph 1, the customs authorities of the Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the European Union of the other Member States of the European Union of the other Member States of the European Union of the European Union and of the other Member States of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union, of the one part, of the one part, of the other part, of the other part, of the European Union, of the other part, of the European Union, of the other part, of the other part, of the European Union, of the other part, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the one part, of the other part, of the other part, and of the other part, of the
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u200	Report apps 1 to 5 without reading them. I've already reported them. Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. Here you are, Mrs. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u201	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Once again, we are voting on Rules for the selection of the Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, which would require a responsible and careful preparation, both for the formulation of today's decision of the National Assembly and the accompanying forms in the relevant five annexes thereto. I believe that the person who prepared the documentation has acted quite formally. In this way our proposed draft decision only has a change in the text that the circumstances of art. 21, para. 1, t. 3 of the Health Insurance Act is established by the administration of the National Assembly and nothing more. My proposals, which you have heard of, aim to improve the document, which is in line with both the current regulations and some discrepancies that I mentioned at a meeting of the Committee on Health. Unfortunately, there is hardly any political will to do so today. That is why I will not vote for these rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u202	Thank you, dear Mrs. Naydenova. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. Colleagues, I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the draft decision on the adoption of procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates as governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and the hearing of candidates in the Committee on Health, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly, as well as Annexes 1 They voted 106 MPs: 83, Against 9, abstention 14. The proposal is accepted, and thus the rules of procedure. Moving on to the last point of today: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW OF OWNITY. Importers are Milen Mihov and a group of MPs on 18 September 2019. The first vote was adopted on 11 December 2019. Mrs. Alexandrova, would you like to introduce us to the Second Reading Report?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u203	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! On 18 September 2019 a report on a draft law supplementing the Property Act, No 954-01-72, submitted by Milen Vassilev Mihov and a group of MPs, adopted at the first vote on 11 December 2019. The Act for Supplement to the Property Act (OJ C 180, 16.7.2013, p. 1). The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u204	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law supported by the Commission. They voted 104 MPs: 79, against 4, abstention 21. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u205	"Paragraph" is the only one. Proposal of the MPs Hamid Hamid and Yordan Tsonev: "1." In § 1 the words "Municipal schools" shall be inserted and the words "Municipal religions" shall be added to the words "Municipal schools" and to the religious faiths "Municipal schools." The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Christian Mitev, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of paragraph only: I'm the only one. In § 1, para. 1 of the Law for Supplement to the Law on Property (prom., SG No. ...) the final addition shall be added to.. including for the acquisition of agricultural land which is owned or on which the right of ownership has been restored under the Law on the ownership and use of agricultural land of state or municipal schools or other state and municipal institutions in the system of pre-school and school education...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u206	Thank you. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Baichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u207	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The subject is highly specialized and clearly not so interesting for all colleagues, but I would still like to say that there was an interesting debate in the Legal Committee and we could not reach consensus. I say this with a clear mind because so proposed Bill, although edited, still does not have sufficient scope to protect all possible specific cases that could arise, and yet the task of the Law is to regulate public relations. What do I mean? I even support and welcome the efforts and proposals of Mr. Hamid and Mr. Tsonev, who are trying to extend the scope, but I believe that this is also not enough, because other than schoolland, besides land of religious religion, there are also Chitalishte land, there are other forms that have already dropped out and now there are practically only their governing bodies that govern this land. All of this is missed and stressed only on the school land and on the land owned by faiths. I would also like to draw attention to something else, namely that the way this land is acquired is by means of the security procedure. This is a separate chapter in the Civil Procedure Code, where the state has delegated rights and entrusted the notary to carry out this activity. Or when there is no legal dispute, a constitutional notary act is issued that documents who are the real owners and who exercise the right to property, i.e. possession, use and disposal. In this way, we practically state that we do not trust the notaries, provided that the National Assembly itself, the Law itself, has entrusted them to manage and delegate state activities. I therefore believe that, given the incomplete scope of the proposed CID, we have reason to abstain and will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u208	Thank you, dear Mr. Baichev. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u209	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Baychev, in the form of a reply I will express the agreement with what you have said and to clarify that we have added faiths because the arguments used in the motives of the importer for the school boards apply one to both faiths and to the Chitalishtes, as you mentioned. So I wanted to make this clarification in the form of a line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u210	Thank you, dear Mr. Hamid. Second line? Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u211	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague Baichev, I will not agree with you that the bill is incomplete. On the contrary, it is complete according to what the importers have expressed in the reasons before the first reading, namely, agricultural lands that are or were owned by schools or educational institutions in the country. We have never spoken, nor have we had such an idea, to extend this bill and, accordingly, the limitation on the acquisition of property rights on such lands in respect of religion or the Chitalishte activity. I'm not saying you can't. Each group can propose a bill in this area and cover these objects, respectively, but our bill is aimed at schools. I believe that it is complete because the other state and municipal institutions are added to the system of pre-school and school education and thus the objects in this area are fully covered by the protection concerned, in which you cannot rely only on the security production and the participation of the notary under the Civil Procedure Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u212	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. A hole? Here you go, Mr. Baichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u213	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Hamid, I'm glad we agree. We have, in fact, stated it in the Commission, we can now state it from the stand that the proposed measure is practically pallet and will lead to nothing. This is a measure with which it is postponed until 2021, unfortunately, I will put it this way. I'm addressing you now, Mr. Mitev. Firstly, in any case, if I have been misunderstood, I do not question your right to legislative initiative. So you decided, so you suggested it, so you imported it, but there is a fundamental principle in the law that you have to go from private to general. And here, right now, we're subtracting from the general case and going to settle certain or certain private cases. That's why I disagree with you. On the other hand, as we said, the security production is precisely for this to protect and protect against such actions. Moreover, when someone intends to invoke a statute of limitations, he must actually hold the property or the land, in this case, and this must do so with the intention of being the owner, that is to say, once again to the management bodies of those schools, ecclesiastical boards, or at all any boards of religion that do not exercise the care of the good owner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u214	Thank you, dear Mr. Baichev. Colleagues, any other speeches? Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u215	Madam President, honourable Members! The proposal that we at IMRO made and which GERB supported is dictated by the large number of unresolved cases that lead to the transfer of agricultural land to schools and other owners. The proposals made by us stop the possibility of abuse of property until 2022 until the problem is fully resolved. I can also give you an example from my electoral district of Pliska, where the school board wants to acquire the land of St. St. Paisii Hilendarski is responsible for the property and the town of Shumen, where the Municipal Council sells school land to a private company. These cases led us to do a background check in the country and it turned out that the examples I gave were not single and isolated cases at all. That is why we want to align the possibility of acquisition by limitation of agricultural land owned by municipal and public schools with that of state and municipal properties for which a moratorium on acquisition by limitation until 2022 has been imposed. In our view, the bill will stop the possibility of the plunder of school lands, which currently do not play their main role in supporting the activities of schools and education, but serve to satisfy the needs of private individuals. As for the proposal of the DPS to bring religious religions into this bill, it is very similar to the return of the vampire properties. But no, gentlemen of the DPS, you will not lay your hand on these lands! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-02-19.u216	Thank you, dear Mr. Stanchev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. Colleagues, we're going to vote. First, I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MPs Hamid Hamid and Yordan Tsonev. They voted 114 MPs: 8 against 27, abstention 79. The offer is not accepted. I am now putting to the vote the version of Paragraph only to the Commission report. They voted 111 MPs: 80 against 1, abstention 30. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, this was the last item on today's agenda. Tomorrow a regular plenary session is held on 20 February 2020, Thursday, at 9.00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
