ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-24.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Honourable Members, we begin with a first point: REPORT ON THE WORK OF THE OMBUDSMAN OF BULGARIA IN 2019 It was introduced by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 31 March 2020. With the Report of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights, Mr. Velchev will introduce us. Here you go, Mr. Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-24.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! Before I present the Report, I shall make a procedural proposal under art. 49, p. 2 for admission in the Chamber of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria Associate Professor Diana Kovacheva, Mrs. Elena Cherneva, Deputy Ombudsman, Mrs. Hristina Rangelova, Expert at the Institution.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-24.u3	Please vote on Mr. Velchev's procedure. They voted 132 MPs: 126, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Here you go, Mr. Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-24.u4	Honourable Members, ♪ I can't believe on the Activity Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2019, No 039-02-1, submitted by the Ombudsman to The Republic of Bulgaria on 31 March 2020 A Report on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2019, No 039-02-1, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 31 March 2020 was discussed at a regular meeting of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights, held on 17 September 2020. The meeting was attended by associate professor Diana Kovacheva, Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria, who presented the Ombudsman's Activity Report in 2019. She said that in 2019 the institution has worked extremely actively. Nearly 50 thousand citizens have received assistance from the Ombudsman, over 22 thousand people have addressed the institution with signatures on specific issues. The number of complaints and alerts received in 2019 is 12 916 which is 1% higher than in 2018 and the number of complaints and alerts completed is 13 762. Last year, it was important for the institution because it was accredited by the UN with the law-abiding status of "A" which means that the ombudsman works in accordance with the highest UN standards on human rights protection. Prof. Kovacheva reported that in 2019 the institution has addressed five times the Constitutional Court, made four requests for interpretation decisions, 13 legislative initiatives and opinions and organised 35 round tables and public discussions. 1823 recommendations were made and more than half of them were implemented by the institutions. The Ombudsman noted that despite the COVID-19 pandemic, the institution has not stopped working. In order to achieve a quick response, the receptions are conducted online, Skype and over the phone. During the emergency situation, over 30 recommendations have been made within two months and a large number of them have been implemented. This shows the sensitivity of the institutions to the Ombudsman's recommendations and the voice of citizens in this period. In 2019, the number of complaints and complaints from public service users was the highest, which increased by about 17% compared to 2018; they followed the complaints related to violated or affected social rights " 14.77%, and the third place occupied the problems related to the right to good administrative service. In 2019, complaints by citizens related to the provision of water services, electricity and financial services were increased compared to 2018. It is noted that more than one third of consumer complaints are against water operators. The complaints relate to the lack of water supply, poor water quality and the increase in its price without improving the service provided. In this regard, it is recommended that the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works be given appropriate action to implement effective measures to protect consumers' rights. Assoc. Prof. Kovacheva also pointed out concrete examples of implemented recommendations from the water companies. The Ombudsman pointed out that a number of complaints have been filed against Sofia's Toplofication in the past year. It focuses on the high rise in complaints at the moment in relation to the countervailing accounts. Prof. Kovacheva informed the MPs that during a hearing of the representatives of Sofia Toploficiation, three recommendations were adopted in the parliamentary subcommittee to the Commission on Energy to extend the period of appeal of the accounts, to begin the checks of the hot accountants and invoices to be clear and misleading citizens. Prof. Kovacheva briefed the MPs on a number of important issues for which she has sent recommendations to the competent authorities. They are related to the protection of citizens in executive production, to the need to regulate the activities of collectors companies, to the unfair clauses in the contracts of companies for fast loans, to the decisions of TelK and their appeal by people with disabilities. According to Associate Professor Kovacheva, this year one of the important topics will be the access of children to online education. She expressed hope that there would be no children excluded from online education due to digital poverty.. lack of devices, access to the Internet or other reasons. This concerns not only children who are vulnerable, but also those in multi-child families. It was noted that as a result of a discussion with the competent institutions and parental organizations, the Ombudsman's recommendations for delaying the pre-school education of four-year-olds and removing the fees in pre-school preparation for a decision of the municipalities were adopted. The chairman of the committee Mr. Krasimir Velchev expressed his high assessment of the activities of the institution. On the occasion of the complaints against the "Topplofication Sofia" he stressed that solving the problems related to the work of the administration and increasing control in every field of energy, healthcare, education is a common responsibility of all institutions. Following the debates held, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights unanimously, with 11 votes for the Council, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Report on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2019, No 039-02-1, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 31 March 2020. The Committee on Religions and Human Rights proposes the following: Project! DECISION on the Activity Report of the The Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2019 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. 22, para. 1 of the Law on the Ombudsman HAS DECIDED Adopts the Report on the Activity of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2019 Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-24.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Velchev. I give the floor to Professor Kovacheva to introduce us to the Report. Here you are, Professor Kovacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-24.u6	Madam President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Today I will present to you a brief summary of the ombudsman report for 2019. It is quite detailed and comprehensive. I will try to be brief, but still present to you the main problems that people encountered in 2019. Yes, 2019 was important for the Ombudsman because it was this year that we were accredited with the highest law enforcement status of the UN, which enables us to protect Bulgarian citizens from the highest international tribune of the UN. I would say that this status was given to the Ombudsman not only because of our work, not only because you changed the Law on the Ombudsman in 2018 and brought him in line with UN standards, but also because the Ombudsman has an extremely broad constitutional mandate which gives him the current Constitution. What was the year in numbers? Nearly 50 thousand people sought the Ombudsman's assistance last year, nearly 13 thousand written complaints were submitted to the Ombudsman, 22 thousand people addressed me with signatures on various, important problems. Five times we have referred to the Constitutional Court, four times we have addressed the Supreme Courts, 13 legislative initiatives and opinions to you, 32 round tables, only six of which on the subject of the dirty air, 17 national campaigns, one of which for the double standard of food. Since 2019 we have had several new forms of interaction: exported foster to Bulgarian citizens abroad. We have made four of them; thematic receptions on citizens' problems. Yes, we have met women victims of violence with women imprisoned in the Sliven prison; and people who complain about enforcement. However, since I am presenting the report almost at the end of this year, I cannot ignore the way the institution operates in a pandemic. I would like to inform you that the Ombudsman has not stopped working for a single day, and we have done more than just being close to the people. All the mobile phones of our experts and are now on the website of the institution so that people can connect with us more easily. Over a period of nearly two months, we have increased the number of complaints, and I regret to say that, on the part of the people, by 30%. Seven thousand complaints were received in four and a half months. And if you allow me to make a summary of what are the most common violations, I will probably not surprise you with the fact that, yes, people are unemployed and without income, they are complaining of violations of their labour and social rights, of the unlawful acts of individuals, collectors companies, fast credit companies, private judicial contractors, of violations of health and education law. I will say here that digital education was important, online training saved the school year of our children, but also posed a very sharp problem for digital poverty and digital exclusion. And the question now that we are facing a difficult school year again is how will all children actually get equal access to quality and free education so that we can tackle the problem of digital poverty. There are many recommendations that I have sent.. 1767, within four and a half months on common individual complaints. I think they have given the institutions the opportunity to make the right decisions. I will mention just a few of them: the problems of citizens with fast credit companies; collectors' companies; mobile operators; the insistence on understanding and delaying their duties; "Toplofification" and public hearings before the KEWRC; recommendations related to the education for dropping out of the exams in fourth and tenth grade; for reducing and eliminating fees in kindergartens; recommendations regarding people who initially could not benefit from interest-free loans because their employers had not paid their contributions. What's the picture in numbers? Thirty-eight per cent of complaints to the Ombudsman in 2019 are directed against state authorities and their administrations. However, it concerns the fact that nearly 44% of the complaints I received in 2019 are against the public service providers. These are the water operators, heat efficiency, electricity supply companies, mobile operators, private judicial contractors, again the fast credit companies and collector companies. You will probably be interested to hear, however, about the areas in which people complain most and where in fact the most has violated rights. Yes, consumers' rights traditionally, for another year, in the Ombudsman's report are moving forward, followed by labour and social rights, health and education, rights violated by individuals. And by the way, a very serious share of requests for changes in the regulations relating precisely to private entities. Here I will say that the Ministry of Justice has developed a project, which is in the National Assembly, in relation to the collectors' companies. Citizens complain extremely much about the arbitrariness of collector companies and fast credit companies. This legislative package should be adopted quickly, including with the Private Failure Act, as people need to be saved from overindebtedness and have the opportunity to actually take a breath. I hope that you will take these people's problems seriously and take the necessary legislative measures. A few words regarding specific problems. Yes, consumer rights are most often violated. Here, however, in the first place, the water service comes out. What people in the area of water consumption complain about the poor quality, the lack of continuity of the water supply service, the need to adopt urgent and adequate measures to repair the outdated and depreciated water supply infrastructure. In fact, people complain that they pay a high price for water without getting good enough quality. They proposed to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works in the Water and Water Act to adopt a mechanism in which, when poor quality water flows out of the tap, when mud flows out of the tap, people have a mechanism to state this and pay less. I hope that you too will commit to the amendments to the Law so that a price of justice is set in cases where the quality of water does not meet the requirements. What can I say about hot water? Well, I'd say she's still a serious problem for people. Last year, people complained about increased and unclear accounts, the inability of individual refusal of service, the poor quality of the service provided, the poor quality of information, problems with the private distribution of floor property. All these problems are not solved. This year we reached the peak with the chaos in countervailing accounts, with people's expectations for smaller accounts after the drastic reduction in the price of natural gas and last but not least with the chaos in invoices, where the information is in an absolutely plentiful form, in which people cannot be informed because it is misleading, incomprehensible and unclear to them. I am glad that the deadline for appealing the countervailing accounts this year has been extended because many people have received them late and others have not received them at all. I also expect from the Director of the Toplofication Sofia, who made a personal commitment to fix the way the messages to invoices look, to start sending invoices to the Sofians and to stop with the misleading and vague information in the invoices. I hope this happens in a very short time. People's social and labour rights. I'm just going to put one accent here, the pension issue. At the end of last and beginning of this year, about 15 000 pensioners in three signatures turned to me, and also to you, demanding that pensions be recalculated. There is such a request, I hope it will be fulfilled, but I would like to draw attention to one more thing. There is a problem with the need to level the minimum pension at least with the poverty threshold. Currently the pension is BGN 250, the poverty threshold is BGN 363. That means there's at least 100 leva. The difference and indeed people perceive this fact as extremely unfair in terms of them. With regard to labour rights, I would say that the law that you have adopted for changes in terms of incorrect employers is working well. Actually, it's about five million. lv. are paid to employees to whom employers do not pay salaries from the Fund. I think this is a positive development. The rights of people with disabilities are serious problems. Last year, the Ombudsman's Monitoring Board on the Convention on Disabilities began work. What do people with disabilities complain about? Well, they're complaining about problems with assistant assistance. It's also seen this year that there was a break in contracts, socio-economic protection, access to aids and medical devices, the accessibility of the environment, and they're also complaining about the lack of employment. There are adopted quotas for employers. Unfortunately, in this pandemic, people have no business, but people with disabilities are in an extremely vulnerable position, including people with intellectual difficulties. Despite the quotas for employers, they are either not respected or not sufficient and people with disabilities simply do not have access to work. The right to healthcare, here I will place an emphasis on medical expertise. Citizens complain about the lower rate of permanently reduced workability they receive after changes in valuation, in that they are not fairly evaluated and that it is actually allowed for citizens with actual diseases and disabilities to be deprived of social support and rights. It is important to take measures because of the serious delay in the appeal of the experts. About a year lasts the NELK appeal and another year if they go to trial. It really slows them down and violates their rights. I told you about the right to education. I would say that I am pleased that the Ombudsman's recommendation on four-year and compulsory pre-school was nevertheless adopted. I had a very serious discussion with two ministers on education and on labour and social policy. Parents asked their questions, shared their concerns and decided to have a three-year delay when the system was ready. I'm opposed to integrated exams. I don't think the system is ready. This will burden parents financially and children mentally with preparation for exams that are actually carried out outside the school. Finally, the rights of children. I will draw attention to the rights of disabled children and with special educational needs. I think the education system owes them. They do not succeed well enough to realize and receive help. There is a problem with violence at school and at home, with the quality of resident care. What are my priorities for this year, which is almost over? Yes, it is clear that social economic rights continue to be important. The protection of citizens from monopolies. Here again I remind you of the water and heating. The protection of citizens from collector companies and fast-credit companies and the need for legislative regulation and restriction of arbitrariness against people, especially now in the situation of a pandemic. Last but not least, I would like to inform you that I have proposed legislative changes to the Ministry of Justice, which have been adopted. I hope that this bill will enter the National Assembly very soon. I propose measures against domestic violence. Domestic violence is not just about women, it affects people with disabilities, it affects elderly people, it affects children. But I will say that last week a woman was set on fire and killed in a particularly cruel way by her friend. During the pandemic, nine women were killed as a result of domestic violence. Therefore, I suggest dropping the systemic nature of domestic violence, systemicity is assumed. I propose a clear definition of economic and mental violence, I suggest that personal physicians be obliged to report when there is evidence of violence against people and there is also mandatory therapy for abusers. Finally, how to contact the Ombudsman. You know how to contact me, you have a direct connection. But I will say here that it is important for me to have a relationship with you as MPs, a continuous connection, in any case, when I make you a recommendation, an opinion, information. I have a lot of information about people's problems and every time I share it with you, I think that together we are approaching at least one step further towards solving the problems of Bulgarian citizens. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-24.u7	Thank you, dear Associate Professor Kovacheva. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Mr. Gokov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-24.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Kovacheva, honourable Members of Parliament! I believe that the institution of the Ombudsman has established itself in the Bulgarian society, and this is due both to the specifics of life in Bulgaria with many problems, with many unresolved issues, as well as to those working in the ombudsman institution is of no consequence which people are leading it and who work in it, for its vision in society. Here I was pleasantly impressed that the institution is certified or classified by the UN, as we would call it, and is working fully under United Nations standards. I have no doubt that the National Assembly, as well as the Committee on Religions and Human Rights, will give a high appreciation to the activities of the ombudsman institution, because they are skillfully recognizing people's problems and raising them in the public domain. However, I did not take the floor to praise the ombudsman institution because it really deserves it, but to note to the President of the National Assembly that the problems contained in the Report and in the activities of the institution concern not only the Commission on Religions and Human Rights but also several other committees in the National Assembly and to express my ambiguity that the report is not allocated to them, for example, the Committee on Interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints. I think there is no committee in the National Assembly whose activity is closer to that of the ombudsman institution, because we are also arriving at perhaps such complaints as the Ombudsman. The other committee, which I think should examine the report, is why I am paying attention to the President of the National Assembly, is the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee. And the report showed that citizens have the most complaints because of problems in the area of their consumer rights, their labour and social rights are next. In the report, I noticed that the Ombudsman made 367 recommendations both to the institutions and to the National Assembly and to whom you would like another aimed in the field of citizens' labour and social rights. It would also be appropriate to examine this report there, because we have written in the Law on the Ombudsman that, in addition to the MPs, proposals for an ombudsman, when we elect one after the end of his term of office, they are also entitled to legal entities for non-profit purposes? What better than the report on the institution's activities to get acquainted with the Commission, which has a Public Council of NGOs? I'm not going in that direction. As far as I can make recommendations, Madam President of the National Assembly, I recommend to you the next report for 2020 to be forwarded to the Commission on the interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints, the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Commission, and why not to the other committees, I think that all committees in the National Assembly have relevant points to the activities of the Ombudsman institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-24.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. I will answer you why only one committee? because the report came on 31 March, and you know that we were in a state of emergency then and we had a decision when a report came in or every bill to be dealt with in just one committee, given the measures that we had taken the reason alone and alone. However, this has not prevented any committee chairman who is interested, it is now September, to require me to be reassigned after this CIVID measure, which we had in the emergency situation, has expired. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? Mr. Nedyalkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-24.u10	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! My speech will be very brief because I am extremely impressed by the Annual Report on the Ombudsman's work. Isn't that right, Mr. Simeonov? I declare that such a report can be read by all Members of the National Assembly and it can be memorized, especially in the situation, after some of the Members of the National Assembly have introduced a Constitutional Project, which has been cutting off the rights of the Ombudsman, let us not forget this fact, which narrows those rights! The report by Assoc.Professor Kovacheva as Ombudsman contains a new understanding of the rights and freedoms that can be developed if it still comes to a Grand National Assembly. It shows the direction in which they can be developed, not to copy the old or established concepts in the current Constitution. That's one thing. The second is a recommendation to the Ombudsman. We know that Prof. Kovacheva, even before being an ombudsman, worked widely in the field of fighting corruption phenomena. Given the situation in the country, the particular sensitivity of people to corruption phenomena should increase the likelihood that a large part of the contacts the Ombudsman's institution has with indicators of corruption should be passed on to the other authorities who should be dealing with this topic. Because Associate Professor Kovacheva himself says that corruption is destroying economic, social and other foundations and destroying them to the end. So in the next annual report, there should also be one such section where the Ombudsman's institution has cooperated in this fight against corruption, how many of the signals received are with an indication of corruption in Bulgaria. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-24.u11	Thank you, dear Mr Nedyalkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Petrov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-24.u12	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would also like to draw attention from this tribune to say that the RZI Court is not doing its job because several dozen MPs, mostly on the left, are not following the orders of the Minister of Health, and they are doing it demonstratively because their president gave them the signal at the very beginning that the government, its proper policy on COVID-19 is a stupid job and that there is no such virus. They're going on demonstrively, and that's on purpose. Measures must be taken against the RZI to impose on this RZI a penalty for failing to fulfil its obligations.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-24.u13	Thank you, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-24.u14	On the subject. I would like to draw attention to this report precisely to the crying state of the rights of children with disabilities, because several screaming women presented themselves as representatives of people with disabilities in Bulgaria and continue to play different... [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-24.u15	Mr. Petrov, I'll ask without qualifications.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-24.u16	...which is absolutely to the detriment of people with disabilities. I would like to draw attention to the homes for medical and social care there are such homes that are extremely insufficient. This violates the rights of parents of children who need them to be placed in homes for medical and social care for children, as there the child enters with connections. This is unacceptable! The rights not only of children are violated, but also of their parents, they cannot work, they cannot be socially included! I received letters from the headmasters of the homes when this Dessislava Rizova, one of the Bozkov TVs, made a career of my speech that the homes should be extended with gratitude for raising this issue. They're extremely insufficient. The second thing I would like to say is that we need to expand the network of these centers for disabled children, which were created after the mass homes for disadvantaged children were closed down. Dear MPs, out of 5,500 children in the old homes, in the new centers found seats 3500 to 2000 children were not respected their rights, they were left just like that. Their parents were also left to do their own work and to do their own work. From our Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, we visited such a great centre in Kyustendil, where twice as many children are accommodated than we should. Finally, something that is very important is about women's rights with a Muslim religion. What's this about? It's about the fact that my known Aytos doctors share that women, young girls with Muslim religion come to them with translators! They don't speak Bulgarian. Therefore, I would like the Ombudsman to deal specifically with the rights and freedoms.. Listen to what I am saying.. to examine the state of the rights and freedoms of girls and young women with Muslim religion and, if necessary, to report on the results in the National Assembly. We have an incredible violation of the rights and freedoms of Bulgarian citizens with Muslim religion! [[Radio in DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-24.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Petrov. A line? In the manner of conduct, please, Mrs. Krasteva.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-24.u18	Madam President, I am paying attention to you and I am making a note that you have admitted to this seemingly boring and unstructured statement, which preceded my insulting qualifications against public groups, against media and journalists, against an ethnic group. I think it is unworthy of the National Assembly to be tolerant of such a tone.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-24.u19	I made an observation, Mrs. Krasteva, if you'd paid attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-24.u20	You didn't hear it.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-24.u21	I made an observation. Thank you. Any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. I'll read the draft decision one more time: Project! DECISION on the Activity Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2019 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. 22, para. 1 of the Law on the Ombudsman HAS DECIDED Adopts the Activity Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2019 Please, voting mode. Vote 153 MPs: for 152, against none, abstention 1. The report has been adopted. Let us thank the Ombudsman and her team and wish them good work! Moving on to the next item on today's agenda: FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR ADMINISTRATIVE DISCLOSURES AND PROCEDURE. Colleagues, I just want to inform you about yesterday's Chairman's Council on the report from the Attorney General that I had a conversation with him yesterday. He will be ready and, if possible, the report will be submitted even before October 8th, as he wrote in the letter. So the moment the report comes in, I will immediately distribute it to the Commission. I will ask Mrs. Alexandrova to look at it in very short time so that she can enter the Chamber. And yesterday, we agreed at the Conference of Presidents that if any of the parliamentary groups decide, they may also submit a draft decision for the Prosecutor's hearing for the first half of the report, which they will submit for the first six months. We're moving on. The Committee on Legal Affairs report will introduce us to Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-24.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, please put to the vote Ms. Petya Tyankova's room the Head of Staff of the Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-24.u23	Please vote on the procedure so made. Vote 139 MPs: 125 against 1, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guest to the hall. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-24.u24	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Violations and Penalties, No 002-01-30, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 July 2020. At its meeting on 9 September 2020, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Violations and Penalties, No 002-01-30, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 July 2020. The meeting was attended by Ms. Petya Tyankova, Head of Cabinet of Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs, and Mrs. Ralitsa Ilkova, Professor of Criminal Law and participant in the Working Group on the Law. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mrs Tiankova, who pointed out that it creates effective legal guarantees for the right to protection of citizens in the extrajudicial phase of administrative criminal proceedings, providing for an appeal against all acts which may affect the rights and interests of both offenders and owners of property taken in favour of the State. The Bill extended the time limits for opposition to the draft act and for contesting the criminal decrees from three to seven days, respectively, from seven to fourteen days. It is proposed that the warning should be made in writing on a minor occasion, and the same will be subject to appeal and protest, including a renewal. The regime for adult and minor administrative criminal offenders of minor cases shall be aligned and the territorial competence of the punishing authorities in cyber-space infringements shall be governed. The circle of persons who may request a reprieve of the punishing authority, the time limits and the order for that reprieve and the obligation to justify the administrative penalty imposed in respect of its type and size shall be established. The provisions of the props, which should contain the resolution on the termination of administrative criminal proceedings, the order for its entry into force and the possibility of the reopening of administrative criminal proceedings concluded by a resolution, shall be detailed. The Bill creates an opportunity to conclude administrative criminal proceedings with an agreement, expands the circle of persons who may request the reopening of proceedings and complement the grounds and the time limits for this renewal. The circle of persons who can initiate the interpretation practice of the Supreme Court Institutions is extended, including the Council of Ministers, all ministers and collective bodies of power established by law in cases where they have powers of application of the relevant law. On the bill were received opinions from the Supreme Council of Laws and Law Firm Lalova and partners. In the discussion of the Bill took part the MPs Christian Mitev and Anna Alexandrova, who expressed their support for the Bill. Mr. Mitev pointed out that the proposals made are appropriate and timely, but expressed doubts about the general prevention and effect of the warning in a minor case. As a result of the discussion held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 13 votes for the Council of Ministers, with no objection, and 7 votes for abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments, No 002-01-30, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 July 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-24.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Report from the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Mr. Vesselinoff, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-24.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Violations and Penalties, No 002-01-30, submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 9 September 2020, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments, No 002-01-30, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 July 2020. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mrs. Petya Tyankova, Head of Staff of the Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister for Foreign Affairs, who focused on the main changes in the Law. The bill provides for, in a minor case, an infringement by a natural person or failure to comply with an obligation by a sole trader or a legal person to the State or a municipality, the punishing authority not to impose a penalty on the intruder, but to warn him in writing that, in the event of any other administrative infringement of the same kind which constitutes a minor case, within one year of the entry into force of the warning, an administrative penalty will be imposed on him for that other infringement. With the proposed changes, the warning to the intruder will only be given in writing. The warning is intended to be subject to appeal and protest, as well as to the possibility that the proceedings closed with a warning will be subject to renewal. An arrangement is proposed for the deduction of the time during which, for the same infringement, the person who has been punished has been deprived in administrative or factual order of the possibility of exercising a particular profession or activity, in the event of the execution of the penalty, of temporary deprivation of the right to exercise a particular profession or activity. The territorial competence of the punishing authorities in cyber-space violations shall be settled. The rules concerning cases in which an actuarial person should not draw up an act establishing an administrative infringement and on the withdrawal of the punishing authority, with clear rules concerning the competent authority to draw up an act establishing an administrative infringement and to issue a criminal order and the time limits, and the order by which the punishing authority needs to be taken. Updating and supplementing the framework of the resolution on termination of administrative criminal proceedings by means of a comprehensive indication of the grounds for termination of proceedings, the content of the reasoned resolution, the cases in which it may be contested, and the order of its challenge, as well as the powers of the punishing authority when the resolution is annulled by the court, is proposed. The obligation of the punishing authority to state reasons as regards the type and amount of administrative penalties imposed shall be laid down. The agreement is also regulated in the general administrative law, and this is expected to contribute to speeding up administrative criminal proceedings, to ease and speed up the recovery procedure for public claims of sacramental origin, to ease the process of proof of the punishing authority and to unload the judicial system of a very large number of cases of administrative criminal nature. An extension of the deadline for the submission of an objection to the act establishing an administrative infringement is proposed for three to seven days, as well as the period for contesting the criminal decrees and other contested acts of the punishing authority, from seven to fourteen days, with a view to enabling citizens to effectively organise their defence. It is envisaged to update the rules of judicial review on the legality of the administrative acts by means of an explicit framework of the powers of the regional court in the proceedings under the Law on administrative infringements and penalties and the regulation of a shortened judicial procedure. It is also proposed to update the Institute of Renewal of Administrative Criminal Procedure by clarifying the acts to be reopened, extending the circle of persons who may request the reopening of proceedings, supplementing and clarifying the grounds for reopening and the time limits for doing so, as well as a framework of the powers of the Administrative Court in the reopening proceedings. The legal consequences of the transformation of a legal person in the course of the administrative criminal proceedings brought against that person in cases where he has committed a failure to fulfil an obligation to the State or a municipality have been laid down. As a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management, with 11 votes for the Council of Ministers and 8 votes abstentions, proposed to the National Assembly a draft amendment and supplement to the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments, No 002-01-30, submitted by the Council of Ministers, to be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-24.u27	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. I'm opening the debate. Mr. Mitev, then Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-24.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In fact, this bill was quite long awaited, a long time ago there was talk of a major and deep reform in administrative criminal proceedings. In the past term and at the beginning of this one there were working groups even for codification, with the creation of a code for administrative violations and penalties. Thank God, finally, at least at the end of this term of the National Assembly, we have a bill trying to solve years of problems in administrative penal activity. You know, this law has been passed since 1969, and despite the many amendments and additions, and so far there have been a lot of imperfections, which prevents effective criminal policy in the administrative area. [[Noise and lines.]] I will not list the achievements of the Bill. It is clear that there has been a lot of hard work done to prepare it. I will only focus on some of the fundamentals that matter to administrative criminal activity to protect citizens' rights and interests. [[Noise and lines.]] Undoubtedly the achievement of this bill is the extension of the deadline...
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-24.u29	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-24.u30	...to object to the act establishing an administrative infringement from three to seven days. So far and so far, the practice is such that in these three days the citizen usually states only that he has not committed the infringement without being able to state reasons without being able to properly defend his thesis that he has not committed an administrative infringement, and practically there is an extremely formal procedure. On the basis of this formal finding, the administrative punishing authority in most cases issues a criminal order instead of rethinking whether we actually have committed an administrative infringement and whether it is necessary to issue a criminal order and to spend the State's resources on the conduct of administrative criminal proceedings. Moreover, in those three days, it is difficult for a citizen to engage a lawyer and therefore receive quality legal assistance and protection of his rights and legitimate interests. Similarly, there is the question of contesting the criminal decree with the current 7-day period, which will be extended to 14 days and which will not be supported. It is also a good change introducing, both in the criminal process and in the administrative criminal proceedings, the possibility of concluding agreements, applying respectively part of the rules of the PPC and the permissions that there have found a place, however, in terms of not the criminal process but the administrative punishment. As regards one of the main changes, namely the detailed regulation of the mandatory written warning, this is in principle a good step, but I have some concerns about this time limit until one year after the entry into force of the warning, respectively, only within that period to limit this institute. I don't think that's enough time. It should be thought about a two-year term, as we will be successful in the individual prevention of the person who has committed an administrative infringement, however, we leave the general prevention. What kind of signal are we giving the public now? So, you could commit an administrative violation under Hicks law, it's been a year, and you're practically rehabilitated. That is, there is no problem, you can commit one violation each year. And here, the possibility of a dispute, including the reopening of the order procedure, is not, in my view, sufficient guarantee, so that there may be some restrictive or re-educational effect on society as a whole, and not only in relation to the intruder. I believe that an infringement committed not within a year, but within a two-year period, will achieve to a much greater extent the objectives not only of the individual but also of the general prevention and only after the expiry of that period can this alert institute be applied again. Finally, it is referred to in the Bill as one of its objectives: speeding up the recovery of public government claims arising from the enforcement of the administration's sanctions, through concessions for the sanctioned persons, in case they voluntarily pay the penalties imposed on them during the period of appeal. Yes, this is a positive step, but in order to be able to effectively implement an effective penal policy, this is not particularly important for those offenders who do not have incomes or property. That is why we from "United Patriarchs" proposed and adopted the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments, which I hope will be united with this bill. I suppose it will be supported by the plenary in general, in which we are giving a solution to this particular problem, so as not to impose fines on persons who have no property and will never pay these fines, thus blaming the administrative criminal policy of the state. We have proposed in this bill the introduction of a new administrative punishment. I believe that by bringing these two bills together, a joint bill will be achieved, including the objectives that are written in the motives of the Bill that we are currently looking at and will generally lead to an effective administrative criminal policy of the state. Thank you. I hope you'll support the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-24.u31	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Are there any lines to Mr. Mitev's statement? I can't see. Mr. Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-24.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, I understand the design of the Bill, but I think it is deeply mistaken the recording itself in it. Why? Because, on the one hand, we have a minor case. Which case, however, is irrelevant, what exactly are the criteria? This is not described in the Law, which creates an opportunity for an absolutely diverse practice by the punishing authorities in the country. Here's what is written in the Law: It is a minor case in which the infringement committed by a natural person or the failure to fulfil an obligation by a sole trader or a legal person to the State or the municipality, in view of the lack or minority of the harmful effects, what is this minority of the harmful consequences and who is the judge, is not described this, or in the light of other sensitive circumstances? Well extenuating circumstances the punishing authority, say, in Burgas may consider that they are present in uniform cases, the same, in Vidin, say, may consider that they are not present. This creates a diverse practice. It is described below that, compared to ordinary cases of infringement or non-compliance of the obligation of the species concerned, a lower degree of public danger must be assessed. The degree of public danger is therefore described in law and the relevant act whether it has a high degree of public danger, this is evident from the penalties provided for in the Law. The sanctions provided for in the Law are sanctions for the child of this act, which is of public danger, whether higher or lower, i.e., what is created in this law? On the one hand, the possibility of diverse practice and disproportionateness between the sanction, because the Law provides that, although only warnings are imposed on the child, there is the possibility of withdrawing property for the benefit of the State and of ordering it, and not only of possessions of the child, but also of belongings of a third party. This I think will create a rather large disproportion between the degree of public danger and the sanction in practice, because the withdrawal of property is essentially a sanction. Whatever is written here in the motives, it is practically a sanction, and it is a sanction with the possibility of having a third party. Even in the appeal before a court of the relevant administrative act imposing those sanctions, the injurious effects have already occurred. In the event of the annulment of this administrative act by the court, the harmful consequences for the child, if it appears that he has failed to fulfil the criteria, the composition of the specified act or a third party, they will have already occurred. It's no big deal that the court will cancel them. That is to say, on the one hand, we have a minor case, a warning and, on the other hand, a high degree of charge of seizure for the benefit of the State and an opportunity on its part to dispose of property and of third parties. So I think this law, as I said at the beginning, understand the spirit, understand the design, but I think it's viciously written down with deep internal contradictions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-24.u33	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Are there any lines to Mr. Popov's statement? I don't see anyone who wants to. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. We are going to vote on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments, No 002-01-30, submitted by the Council of Ministers. They voted 103 MPs: for 71, against none, abstention 32. The bill was passed at first reading. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR ELECTRONIC TRADE. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 7 August 2020. The report on the Bill of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism will present Mr. Petar Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-24.u34	♪ I can't believe under the Law amending and supplementing the Ecommerce Act, No 002-01-33, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 August 2020. The Commission on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting held on 9 September 2020 examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Ecommerce Act No 002-01-33. The meeting was attended by Stamen Yanev, Deputy Minister of Economy, who presented the bill. [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-24.u35	Please remain silent and show respect to the rapporteur! Mrs. Stoyanova, stop this conversation.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-24.u36	The aim of the proposed draft is to ensure the implementation of the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2019/1150 and the fulfilment of the obligations of traders set by it, as well as the establishment at national level of the rules and measures applicable to infringements of the provisions of the Regulation. The bill proposes amendments and additions to settle the consequences of non-compliance with the obligations of intermediary online service providers and on-line search engines providers to be responsible for violating the requirements of Regulation (EU) 2019/1150. The Regulation introduces a set of mandatory rules for providers of intermediary online services, which include: With regard to unfair commercial practices: - requirements for the general conditions of providers of intermediary online services; - rules and deadlines for limitation, suspension and termination of services to a business user; - requirements relating to specific contractual terms. With regard to the out-of-court settlement of disputes: - obligation to provide an internal complaint system; - obligations and rules relating to mediation. Regulation (EU) 2019/1150, is directly applicable and each Member State is required to ensure its effective and adequate application by establishing at national level the rules laying down the measures applicable to infringements of the provisions of the Regulation. The proposed changes will affect all intermediary online service providers, all online search engines providers, all business users of services provided by intermediary online services providers and online search engines. Small enterprises providing intermediary online services are exempted from the establishment of internal complaint systems and from the need to identify mediators in general terms. According to the importer, the bill will not result in additional expenditure for the state budget. A preliminary impact assessment has been applied to the bill, as well as the references required under art. 76 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. After a vote with results, 17 votes for the Council, with no objection and abstention, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism adopted the following opinion: Asks the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Ecommerce Act, No 002-01-33, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 August 2020
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-24.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, only your committee can provide such undisputed results. I'm opening the debate on the bill. Honourable Members, you have the floor for speeches. I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm calling off the debate. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Ecommerce Act, No 002-01-33, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 August 2020. They voted 106 MPs: for 105, against none, abstention 1. The bill was passed at first reading. Moving on to the last item on the agenda for today: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE REPRESENTATION OF THE ARMED POWERS OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 17 August 2020. Report of the Defence Committee Mr. Popov. General Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-24.u38	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe of the Defence Committee on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Reserve of the Armed Forces of the Republic Bulgaria, No 002-01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers On 17 August 2020, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) At a regular meeting held on 17 September 2020, the Defence Committee examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Reserve of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. They attended: Deputy Defence Minister Atanas Zaprianov, Defence Chief Admiral Emil Evtimov, Permanent Secretary Anton Lastardzhiev and Parliamentary Secretary Vanya Denevska. The reasons for the bill were presented by Deputy Minister Zapreyanov. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-24.u39	Excuse me, Mr. Polychronov, I didn't give the floor to you. I gave the word to General Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-24.u40	In them he pointed out that the bill creates an opportunity for the implementation of a temporary service in the voluntary reserve, such as every Bulgarian citizen until 40, at his request and provided that he meets the requirements of the Law, he can serve in the armed forces for up to 6 (six) months. With an increase in the number of Bulgarian citizens with military training, the possibility of filling the reserves of the armed forces will be improved. There is also an opportunity for a more flexible approach and an extension of the training of Bulgarian citizens in the stages of secondary education to acquire skills related to the protection of the homeland, to survive military crises, as well as to learn about the missions and tasks of the armed forces. The capabilities of the armed forces to assemble contingents involved in operations and missions outside the territory of the country will also be increased, with the necessary specialists implementing a contract of service in the voluntary reserve. There is also an increase in the years for keeping records of the reserve, which will improve the mobilization capabilities of the country and increase the readiness of the armed forces to protect the Homeland through the effective use of these Bulgarian citizens according to their specific preparation. Voluntary reservers will be able to be used more effectively for the duration of the contract by introducing a requirement of 2 years to the age limit for admission of service to the voluntary reserve. Employers, for their part, will be able to retain their staff by providing unpaid leave to their workers/workers and allowing them to pass the term of service in the voluntary reserve. The MPs Hristo Gadzhev, Valentin Radev, Nikolay Tsonkov and Simeon Simeonov spoke. People's representative Hristo Gajev expressed support for the proposed amendments, some of which change the current model of completion of the voluntary reserve, and called for a new look at the military training classes in secondary schools in order to include some of the young people to future realization in the armed forces and the Bulgarian Army. National Representative Valentin Radev expressed support for the Bill and pointed out that ten years after the introduction of the Reserve Act this is a way to seek efficiency with the development of new forms for completion and creation of an additional contingent by citizens with military training for the protection of the Fatherland. People's representative Nikolay Tsonkov pointed out that MPs from the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria and members of the Defence Committee will refrain from supporting the bill. According to him, an attempt has been made to solve the problems with the Bulgarian army's neocomplect by creating a new kind of service in the voluntary reserve, not by creating conditions for direct admission of more candidates for service in the regular army. People's representative Simeon Simeonov expressed support for the bill, pointing out that the measures are extremely necessary to deal with the non-completion, but for realization of the intentions is particularly important the financial provision of the planned activities. In conclusion, the Chairman of the Defence Commission Konstantin Popov thanked for the content discussion, pointed out the Draft as an integral part of the efforts of the ruling majority and the Ministry of Defence to improve defence policy and expressed the expectations for achieving practical results in its implementation after its final adoption. At the vote held with 12 votes...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-24.u41	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Next time, be careful what card you come in here with. A report by the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy will be delivered by Mr. Hasan Ademov, President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-24.u42	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on the first vote of the Amendment and Supplement Bill of the Law on the Reserve of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria with importer of the Council of Ministers The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a regular meeting held on 16 September 2020, discussed and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Reserve of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. The meeting was attended by General Atanas Zapreyanov Deputy Minister of Defence, Elena Markova, Director of the Department of Defence Legal Normalization, Lyubomir Mihailov, Director of the Department of Human Resources Management at the Ministry of Defence. The bill was presented by Lieutenant General Atanas Zapreyanov. The Bill proposes changes related to the implementation of two main objectives, namely: improving the assembly of military formations and improving the assembly of military formations with reservers. According to the importers of the bill, the first objective will be achieved by: - Introduction of a temporary service in the voluntary reserve of up to 6 months, through which military formations with reserves and reserves will be equipped. To overcome this, it is proposed to replace the previous forms of military training of the Bulgarian citizens through participation in courses with the establishment of a legal regulation of a new type of service in the voluntary reserve, namely: a term of service on a voluntary basis, which will cover a period of up to 6 months, during which an adult Bulgarian citizen passes an initial and special military training and performs tasks in the composition of military formations by the armed forces as a reserver. At the time of implementation of the contract of temporary service in the voluntary reserve, the reserve will have the status of a soldier with the rights and obligations corresponding to the post held, except for the rights under art. 224, para. 1, t. Art. 1, art. Art. 226, Art. Art. 226b, Art. Art. 226c. Art. 226 226h, as well as restrictions under art. 182, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 188 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria. He will receive remuneration corresponding to the post held and his assigned military title. At the time of his absence from work, the use of unpaid leave, including the day of departure and return, is envisaged by analogy to the regulation of the active service in the voluntary reserve. The financial provision of the provisional service in the voluntary reserve will be entirely at the expense of the budget of the Ministry of Defence. - Regulation of the possibility of teaching students for the protection of the Fatherland within not less than ten hours of the specified hours of the class during their secondary schooling, as well as additional training outside those hours, which could be carried out in elective and/or optional classes. - Regulation in a regulation of the Council of Ministers of the activities of the district governors and mayors of municipalities in order to ensure the disclosure and delivery of reserve and equipment related to the mobilization of military formations by the armed forces. - Regulation of the age limit for the service in the stock of persons who have ceased their service relationships with structures under art. 50, para. 2 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria. The second objective of the Bill will be achieved by preparing Bulgarian citizens for the protection of the Fatherland, regulated by the Law on the Reserve of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. This preparation will be achieved by: - introduce the term service into the voluntary reserve; - regulates the provision of unpaid official leave and protection against termination of the employment or service of the Bulgarian citizens performing a term of service in the voluntary reserve by the employer/authority of their appointment, except in the event of closure of the enterprise under art. 328, para. 1, t. 1 of the Labour Code or closure of the administration under art. 106, para. 1, t. 1 of the Law on the Civil Service; - ensure the possibility of filling positions requiring medical education in contingents participating in missions or operations outside the territory of the country; - terminate the possibility of signing contracts for the voluntary reserve with persons appointed by employment/service in the structures under art. 50, para. 2 of the ZOVSRB; - introduce a restriction on the conclusion of a contract of service in the voluntary reserve with regard to the age of applicants; - enabled Bulgarian citizens appointed by employment or service in the Ministry of Defence, the structures of direct subordination of the Minister of Defence and the Bulgarian Army to apply for voluntary reserve service for the duration of participation in a mission or operation outside the territory of the country. At the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: 12 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He proposed to the National Assembly to support the First Voting Draft amending and supplementing the Act on the Reserve of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 002-01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 August 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-24.u43	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. I'm opening the debate. Is Mr. Tsonkov the first? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-24.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am concerned with the proposed Draft Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Reserve of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. I would like to begin my argument with a retrospect of why we will abstain from this bill. In 2011 the first government of Boyko Borisov was made a serious reorganization of the Bulgarian army and the so-called Single Set for Peace and Military Time was introduced. In my opinion, this is one of the main reasons to get to today's proposed changes, which are trying to solve some of the problems accumulated over the last ten years, and not only in the voluntary reserve, talking specifically about this bill, but also entirely about the Bulgarian Army and the main problem of lack of personnel for the Bulgarian Army. However, I believe that before discussing the voluntary reserve and solving the problems that are visible in the Reserve Act, we should try to solve the severe problem that we see is constantly deepening with the Bulgarian army's neocomplect. We have repeatedly said that we need to focus on social conditions, improve the social package. We see that we are working towards improving the financial conditions and in particular the salaries of the Bulgarian servicemen, but obviously this is not enough to solve the shortage of personnel for the Bulgarian Army. In this context, we are also looking at today's Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Reserve Act. I would remind you that last year there was a campaign going on - Be a soldier - which we from BSP for Bulgaria - believe did not lead to much satisfactory results, unfortunately, did not cause much interest. We do not see any significant increase of those willing to sign up for servicemen, of course, mainly from the young population of Bulgaria. It is no secret that we are in a sufficiently serious demographic crisis, not to say something stronger, which we also note has an impact on this non-completion that exists and has accumulated in the Bulgarian Army. However, we do not believe that with actions that are not right in the target, but are side solutions, speaking of the voluntary reserve, we will achieve a great deal of results. It is nice to first focus on the solution of the Necomplect in the Bulgarian Army before we decide the voluntary reserve, which obviously fully concerns the desire and awareness of every Bulgarian citizen. The protection of the Fatherland as a basic constitutional obligation. But this is a bigger theme that I'm just marking. There is no way to support such changes that we actually believe will lead to nothing. It's more like we're seeing activity mimicking again. We try to solve the accumulated problems without going into depth and try to fight the consequences before looking at the basis of the problems and looking for the solution there. Another thing that impresses us is that by the end of the year, the Strategic Defence Review should be completed. This means that after its completion we will know the real state of the sector of Defense, of the Bulgarian Army. And it is logical and natural when the Strategic Review is completed based on the findings of the problems that have been identified, to propose comprehensive reforms, changes in this sector and to really try to start solving these problems that have accumulated. That is why we believe that this bill has been tabled prematurely. I don't know what's the rush, I have no explanation myself. Let me remind all MPs that the Law on the Reserve of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria has been adopted 2012, i.e. it has been implemented for 8 years, but in practice it is not working. That is what an important eloquent proof is talking about - 13% is the assembly of the voluntary reserve, that is, it has 3000 people who are actually employed 450 - 460, which means that for 8 years we obviously have a lack of activity, a lack of sufficient competence in part of the management to find a way to solve this problem with the voluntary reserve. And I say again: this structure, which is single, peaceful, wartime, which was created, actually led to these results. I would therefore like you to think again whether this is the right decision, whether these are the right measures to be taken to solve the complete assembly of the Bulgarian Army. Something else that makes an impression. I find it difficult to explain and understand the concept of temporary service in the voluntary reserve that is being introduced. It certainly won't lead to much results. And one of the reasons is that there are not enough incentives at stake to provoke, provoke interest and record enough reservers to fill those 3,000 units that are set in the voluntary reserve. Secondly, it is also necessary to clarify the texts relating to the relations between the State, the Ministry of Defence, the reservers and employers. There are not enough financial and administrative incentives there, which means that these changes that are being introduced will rather be imitation and not working again. The result will be almost zero. I'm telling you now. I hope I'm not a bad prophet. The only thing that makes a good impression on us is the attempt to restore military training and training in the ninth and tenth grade schools, but there should also be refined the texts. It is good to focus in this direction in order to create a more lasting interest in adolescents, young and young in schools to still be able to recruit potential servicemen. Another problem that we believe currently exists is the functioning of the Central Military District, but the problem is not whether there is a legal personality, but in the very way of work, because the Central Military District is not reorganized to work under conditions of a professional army that matters in this case when we talk about recruitment and reserve. I would not like to ask questions, and there is no one here to answer from the Ministry of Defence whether we also have available, credible, up-to-date information about all those who are reservers and in reserve, because this is also a big problem, and I do not see in this bill in any way to open even this topic and to work in this direction. After all these arguments that I have put forward, I say again that we from the BSP for Bulgaria are going to abstain, we will not support at first reading our proposals Draft amendment and supplement to the Law on the Reserve of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. Nice try, you play a little bit with even patriotic topics, but these changes won't work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-24.u45	Any lines to Mr. Tsonkov's statement? Mr. Manushev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-24.u46	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tsonkov, you have made a very serious statement, about ten minutes, but since we are looking at the first vote this bill, it is important the idea and why it is proposed. You said that the Reserve Act was adopted in 2012. Since then it has been eight years and the most serious problem that has arisen is the completion of the wartime formations of the Bulgarian Army, as the reservers have grown older and started to exit the reserve. The main idea of this bill is to fill the wartime composition of our units, which voted on this National Assembly. And the circumstantial results of which you spoke most about to fill the Bulgarian army's neocomplect, with this bill they will be filled and we hope to have an impact on the filling of the permanent reserve and of the units that are now active in the Bulgarian Army. So the idea of the Bill is different, not what you talked about for ten minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-24.u47	Thank you, Mr. Manushev. Second line, Mr. Mikov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-24.u48	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Tsonkov, your group is still making a good move to refrain from supporting this law. Obviously, you're not opposed to these endeavors. But I take a line to tell you that you are wrong about your argument regarding the trials in our armed forces related to the Necomplect. All unattended observers, as well as the statistics and processes associated with the service competitions, show an increasing interest in the service in the army. Apparently, in the last two years, the number of members of the armed forces has exceeded the number of those who left. There are competitions in our armed forces right now. There the number of candidates far exceeds the number of places applied for. So this process is the opposite of what you claim. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-24.u49	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. Is there a third line? I don't see anyone who wants to. Mr. Tsonkov, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-24.u50	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Manushev, I will say a sentence like the back of your line. Since there are not enough volunteers, I also oppose Mr. Mihov, and we cannot fill the ranks of the Bulgarian army with soldiers, we will hardly be able to fill the voluntary reserve. The most important thing that is being introduced is the term service in the military reserve, as I said, there are not enough incentives to be able to solve this problem and fill in the reserves. We're talking about 3,000 people. You know that the incompletion in the Bulgarian Army is about 6,000 people. A large part, of course, and in the voluntary reserve that goes into this number. Since there are not enough soldiers who for a salary to flow into the ranks of the Bulgarian Army against minimum social and financial conditions will hardly come into the voluntary reserve.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-24.u51	Thank you, Mr. Tsonkov. Are there any other statements on the bill? Mr. Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-24.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I will start from where the discussion ended. Unfortunately, neither in Bulgaria nor anywhere in the world has the Philosopher's Stone been discovered, where with one bill, you can solve all the problems and create the most powerful army. There are therefore various acts, including we will be looking at the budget soon, we hope that you will support us there in this regard. Changes were made to the Defense and Armed Forces Act, the Military Intelligence Act and so on. This is a whole set of proposals that have one goal, of course. I'm going to do a brief flashback because it seems important to know the reasons why it came to this. First, in 2008 the way of assembly of the Bulgarian army changed. We went to a professional army. A little hasty, I think, at the time military leadership was not simply in line because it wasn't fully thought out. At the time, the questions were not considered for both the reserve and the reserve. It was only in 2012 that the Reserve Act was adopted, but then the circumstances were slightly different. I'm not saying it's a good law or a perfect one, but the circumstances were. Firstly, it was an economic crisis that was difficult to find financial resources for the army as a whole, let alone the reserve. Secondly, which is no less important, then the efforts in Bulgaria and in our allies were aimed at preparing formations for missions abroad. That was a priority. Now the priorities have changed. First of all, we're looking at our defenses, and that's a priority. Secondly, we already have a financial resource that we can set aside to further develop the reserve system. What is the purpose of changing this law? First, of course, to increase the reserve. Secondly, to create better conditions, to be able to have more candidates for personnel military service, to increase the level of training, to education, I would add, and to raise young people and to create respect for defence issues with teaching in secondary schools, with the new opportunities of higher education institutions that are given in this law. What does this law really do? I'll try to be brief so I don't take up too much of your time. What we are doing is that so far, there has been a reserve system, which consists of two parts............................. and mobilization. This first part is composed of two components so far: an active service reserve and a voluntary reserve available for active service. We are now making another addition to the term service to this first component. What is this? What are the ambitions of the Ministry of Defense? This means twice a year for 300 people to go through such training in six months, the first three months being initial training, specialized training and the next three months can also go to military formations. The Department of Defense said he's done enough analysis, enough assessments, and that's achievable. There will also be a budget provided by the Ministry of Defense. These people will receive a salary for rank and position and will not participate in a competition if they want to be personnel servicemen. This law also concerns a slightly wider range of things, as you mentioned, relationships with employers, increasing the rights and obligations of district governors, of municipal mayors. Yes, the Central Military District is given more opportunity to do its work. There are new relationships in the education system where, again, I say, the main focus is raising and increasing knowledge and the desire to enter the service of the Bulgarian Army. There are many other things that I do not want to share here, because they are clearly written, but in the end what is written is consistent with the objectives that are set, and leads in the right direction of the desire of all of us to really build better, more complete defense capabilities that meet the requirements so that we can react properly in crises of a non-military and military nature. I think the bill is good in this regard. Of course, at second reading, proposals can be made, and if they are appropriate and the House decides, we can vote on them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-24.u53	Thank you, Mr. Popov. - What's the line? I can't see. Here you are, Mr. Milev, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-24.u54	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It turned out that the best thing about the changes that are being introduced to the Bulgarian Army Armed Forces Reserve Act is that we can freely express our views to the entire Bulgarian people regarding the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. I do not join the vision that almost this law will introduce any changes or proposals for amendments to the Law on the Reserve of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, as no one As we can see, the Law proposes that they be transferred to the Central Military District, almost becoming a secondary officer with state resources and almost having rank and type of armed forces, which is not serious. The Department of Defense and the Defense Headquarters are running away from responsibilities. In order to arrive at preparation, preparation, maintaining a voluntary and permanent reserve, mobilization, there must be someone who can keep in constant contact with those who are in military formations. We have allowed the term "determined military formations" to fill the reserve, which everyone accepts is not correct and remains in these proposals, not what is known by all the "military formations." In the last five years, only 70 people have gone through such training. Seventy people! Without any research to provide us with the Ministry of Defense, the Defense Headquarters for what will happen after these proposals, not some analysis that has been done in the dark or by military specialists, even civilians, without knowing the real possibilities. Because in Bulgaria we do not currently have a contingent of young people who are willing to prepare, even if they serve in the army. For this reason, many countries in the West and in the United States and Canada are already making changes in their views on the service and on completing the armed forces, and we are continuing to change wordings, structures and so on. We even impose a duty on the President and the President of the National Assembly to bring the armed forces to a higher level of combat readiness. We are almost not putting the emergency situation in place with the COVID-19 in suspicious situations to suggest the increase of the readiness of the Bulgarian army to higher levels of combat readiness. There's talk about the mayors and the district governors. It's nice that they recorded it, but this structure isn't working right now. Until the Department of Defense, the Defense Headquarters is taken over and personally managed this process to the end, nothing will happen. That's my opinion. The other thing is, we're talking about money here. There's no money! There's no way at the expense of the Department of Defense's budget, I'd say changes that won't lead to anything. You know how we form the budget of the staff, not the staff. That's why there's no money in the Department of Defense. The proposal also says that this will not lead to a financial impact of the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria. That's not true! We must spend money for the Bulgarian Army in this direction. I believe that the changes that are being proposed are cosmetic, not currently working, and that is why the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria is going to abstain at this stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-24.u55	Thank you, Mr. Milev. Are there any lines to the speech of the MP Milev? I won't. Please come in for a statement, Mr. Vangelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-24.u56	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, I was thinking of not speaking, but still the nihilism of BSP colleagues, when it comes to defence, is a little too much for me. You've heard many false claims. For example, that there are no willing personnel. I will tell you that a competition has recently been held for 100 seats in the Navy, where 500 people applied. After sifting their fitness, there are 300 people left for 100 seats. If this is a lack of interest, tell him well. The other thing is, we're wrong to sit down and talk. The truth is that this political leadership of the current ministry, this is a fact, for the first time turned the trend. We no longer escape from the army. The army's prestige has become very high, people are already looking at the military's profession differently. Here we were constantly hearing nihilistic statements that always say how things are not good, how nothing is good, how only BSP can make them good, only this goes away with the facts. For a backup. This is a very correct proposal that we are now making as a bill, because, who have served in the army, we are getting older and older and there will be no more reserves, and there will be no more reserves. Therefore, this step is now timely and fully in favor of the Bulgarian Army. I wonder why the BSP will refrain from this when they claim that they want us to have strong armed forces, and whenever it comes to key innovations that they once again, priors say that nothing good will happen, they do not support them. One thing cannot be done before it is put into action, saying that it will lead to failure, that it will fail. For the third time, this is pure nihilism! We will support this bill because it is very necessary for the Bulgarian army.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-24.u57	Thank you, Mr. Vangelov. Replies to Mr. Vangelov's statement? I can't see. Any parliamentary group willing to speak outside the agenda? Ah, there is one. Come on in. Mrs. Stefanova, are you authorized by the management of the group? [[WALK SPEAKS IN ENGLISH]] You authorize it well.
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-24.u58	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, dear compatriots! On behalf of the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Rhodophilists, I would like to mark some great September dates in Bulgarian history, which make us proud of our ancestors and not lose hope for Bulgaria because we are true patriots and we do not forget. In the autumn of 1918, the Antante decided to end with a small Bulgaria. The purpose is to make two breakthroughs at Good Field and to bring our 600-thousand-strong army in Macedonia into the hearing and to be liquidated and to take our country out of the war. The Romanians want everything near Stara Planina, Greece, everything to Plovdiv, and Serbia to Places and Iskar. The plan leaves successfully the French manage to break through our defenses in the Good Field. At this moment, when the front collapses and a mutiny breaks in the back of the head, a single Bulgarian division will save our country? 34,000 men from Pleven, Lovech, Troyan and their surroundings will bring the worst defeat of the English army in all its history. By the beautiful Doyran Lake, the Antanta has built colossal forces, four English, two Greek and one French division, the Ninth Pleven is alone. There are no reservations. In this ratio of forces, our warriors know that they will die. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-24.u59	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-24.u60	Many officers put on their parade uniforms, soldiers put on the last white shirts. On September 16th, 350,000 shells were fired at them, including gas, but General Vazov's fortifications are still speaking. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-24.u61	At least from the group of the United Patriarchs it suits you to make noise during this declaration. Respect the memory of the fallen and the winners of the Doyran battle!
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-24.u62	We're giving nine dead and 40 wounded. At 5:00 a.m. on September 18, three English and one Greek division launches an attack. At this point, 220 artillery barrels began to spew fire. General Vazov doesn't save the shells, there's no more time. 400 Bulgarian mortars turn the rays of the hills into hell, 440 machine guns mow the incoming ones. Those who escaped from the bunkers Bulgarians maintain such a full-bodied fire that only 20-30% of the attackers reach the trenches, and there meet them with a terrible and devastating counterattack of a knife. The opponent is stopped and turned into an escape, which soon embraces the entire Doyran front. More than 10,000 corpses remain on the battlefield in British uniforms. Desperate British General Miln sends the backup two divisions in a tour of Belasica to try a breakthrough between the Ninth Pleven and the Eleventh Macedonian Division. My parents drop them 50 yards away and kill them at close range with their machine guns and flamethrowers. Ten thousand Greeks burn on the skates of Belasica. On September 19th, General Miln collected everything he could carry weapons to fill out his orchard parts, but the last attack was drowned in blood. The furious Bulgarian artillery hair with drum fire, for the first time uses gas shells. This is the most bloody battle in all of World War I, with the greatest density of those killed on a kilometre front. In any war, the English have never sacrificed as many victims as they did with Doyran. Thanks to the Doyran victory in the prepared truce agreement, Bulgaria lost the war was saved by occupation. In 1936 a World War I veterans met in London. The Bulgarian delegation is led by the specially invited General Vladimir Vazov. The veterans' parade is attended by 3,000 reserve warriors and 200 battle flags. At the arrival of our delegation, Field Marshal Lord Milne says: "Put down the flags! General Vazov passes the winner of Doyran! The Bulgarian victory at Doyran is studied in all military academies. She recorded an incredible statistic: nearly 70 thousand killed by the Antante against less than 500 dead Bulgarians, seven divisions completely destroyed by one single Bulgarian. Bow to the feat of all worthy Bulgarians who participated in this glorious battle! We, the true patriots, know and remember. [[Applause from the Bulgarian Rhodolists.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2020-09-24.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Georgieva, for reminding us of this bright date for the big victory at Doiran. We are continuing the debate. Are there any more statements under the Reserve Act? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Act on the Reserve of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 002-01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 August 2020. They voted 145 MPs: 103, none against, abstention 42. The bill amending and supplementing the Act on the Reserve of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria was adopted at first reading. That is the end of today's agenda. Parliamentary Control Communication on 25 September 2020, Friday: 1. Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva will answer a question from MP Anton Kutev and a question from MP Christian Vigenin. 2. The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva will answer two questions from the MPs Kristian Vigenin; and Svetla Bachvarova; and one question from the National Representative Kristian Vigenin. 3. The Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will answer a question from the National Representative Smilyana Nieva. 4. The Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov will answer five questions from the MPs Stefan Apostolov; Georgi Mihailov; Christian Vigenin and Nikolay Penev; Dimitar Georgiev; and Georgi Gokov. 5. The Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev will answer two questions from the MPs Vesela Lecheva; and Rumen Gechev. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov to a question with a written answer from the MPs Stoyan Mirchev, Yavor Bojankov and Anton Kutev; - the Minister of Interior Hristo Terziyski to two questions from the MPs Kristian Vigenin; and Anton Kutev, Stoyan Mirchev and Yavor Bojankov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Desislava Taneva at one request from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova, Georgi Stoilov, Daniel Yordanov, Dobrin Danev, Nikolay Boshkilov, Rumen Georgiev, Tsvetan Topchiev and Nikolay Penev; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev to a question written by the MPs Veska Nencheva and Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Economy Lachezar Borisov to a question written by the MPs Krum Zarkov and Georgi Stoilov; - Minister of Finance Kiril Ananiev to a question from the National Representative Nikolay Tishev; and to two questions with a written answer from the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting due to the use of annual leave. The next National Assembly meeting will be tomorrow, Friday, at 9:00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
